Best Free TV Streaming Services: Tubi, Pluto TV and More - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
Best Free TV Streaming Services: Tubi, Pluto TV and More
Tired of spending so much on the big streamers? It may be time to explore free alternatives.
Our Experts
Written by
Kourtnee Jackson
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Written by
Meara Isenberg
Article updated on December 17, 2024 at 7:17 AM PST
Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
Credentials Though Kourtnee hasn't won any journalism awards yet, she's been a Netflix streaming subscriber since 2012 and knows the magic of its hidden codes.
See full bio
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Meara Isenberg Writer Meara covers streaming service news for CNET. She graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a degree in journalism. When she's not writing, she likes to dote over her cat, sip black coffee and try out new horror movies.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Do you prefer on-demand or live?
Some free streaming platforms offer both live and on-demand content or only one type. If you like to channel hop, then a service like Pluto may be your first pick over Tubi or Freevee. Because they're all free, you can get more than one without hurting your wallet.
Ad load
Only one service on this list is completely ad-free, so you should decide if the commercials are worth the tradeoff during your viewing experience. The ads are not that heavy in Tubi, but you may discover they are unbearable on another service. Choose according to your tolerance level.
Kids' content?
Not every free streaming service is loaded with kid-friendly titles, so scroll through the live and on-demand lineups to see who carries the most age-appropriate content. You can also check out our best streaming services list for kids for recommendations on free platforms.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
When it comes to free TV streaming services, your wallet can catch a break. You can switch around between them as often as you’d like without parting with a penny. Despite the ads on most of these services, streaming TV for free offers plenty of benefits. You can watch live news broadcasts, on-demand shows and movies and stream content 24/7 on FAST channels. Whether you want reality TV, horror flicks, true crime or kids’ shows, services like Tubi and Pluto TV have older series and films, sort of like basic cable reruns. And some platforms offer their own original programming. Our Picks
Best free TV streaming service overall Tubi TV
Jump to details
See at Tubi TV
Jump to details
Best for channel flippers Pluto TV
Jump to details
See at Pluto TV
Jump to details
Best for Roku users Roku Channel
Jump to details
See at Roku
Jump to details
Best recently revamped service Sling Freestream
Jump to details
See at Sling
Jump to details
Best for extra features Plex
Jump to details
See at Plex
Jump to details
Best for library card holders Hoopla Digital
Jump to details
See at Hoopla Digital
Jump to details
Show 1 more
Table of Contents
Best Free TV Streaming Services: Tubi, Pluto TV and More
What's the best overall free TV streaming service?
Best free TV streaming services of 2025
Factors to consider
How we test streaming services
Other streaming services we tested
Free streaming services FAQs
What's the best overall free TV streaming service?If we had to choose only one platform to wear the ultimate crown, it would be Tubi. The Fox-owned brand touts an easy-to-use interface and extensive library of TV shows, movies and live channels. Find cult classics alongside new Tubi originals, or take advantage of its features that help you personalize your recommendations, like its Rabbit AI tool or Scenes function.Still, other options listed here are considered among the best free streaming services; Pluto TV is great for channel surfers and the Roku Channel can be convenient if you want to watch the news without cable. Here's more on why we think Tubi is the best and other free streamers that enable you to indulge your inner couch potato.Read more: The Best Live TV Streaming Services for Cord CuttersBest free TV streaming services of 2025
Tubi
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tubi
Best free TV streaming service overall
Tubi TV
Pros
Impressive on-demand library
Appealing interface
Designated Tubi Kids section
Cons
Lower live channel count than some competitors
Only one profile per account
Tubi TV offers considerably more free movies than TV shows, but it continues to grow its extensive library and its live channel lineup. This ad-supported network doesn't require an account, although signing up for one enables you to save favorites and resume playback if you switch between devices.Tubi offers nationwide and local news livestreams in addition to live sports, weather and entertainment channels. The streaming site's TV selection offers some of the reality shows we've come to expect, such as Hell's Kitchen and Dance Moms, plus oddball inclusions such as the Australian drama McLeod's Daughters.To watch TV series on demand, you can browse by title, network or genre, including a Tubi Kids category. Not every show has full seasons available, but you'll find Broadchurch, Columbo and six seasons of Gossip Girl among the choices. There are also a handful of Tubi originals as well as feature films such as The Goonies and Snowpiercer.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Tubi TV
Specs & Configurations
Where available
US; Canada; Australia; Mexico; New Zealand; Panama; Costa Rica; El Salvador; Guatemala; Ecuador; UKLive content?
YesProfiles per account
1
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
James Martin/CNET
Best for channel flippers
Pluto TV
Pros
250+ channels
Popular movies on-demand
Cons
No way to pause livestream
Smaller on-demand selection than some others
Pluto TV is noteworthy for offering not only on-demand, free movie streaming, but also more than 250 live and linear channels on the platform, including BBC Food, CSI, Star Trek and CBS News. Because it's a Paramount-owned brand, Pluto also has episodes of shows like Criminal Minds and Survivor.Pluto offers an impressive selection of live channels sorted into categories like news, reality, sports, comedy and movies in a grid format. On-demand TV content is organized into TV drama series, sitcoms, crime, game shows, sci-fi and more. The layout is not nearly as slick as the live channels, but there's a variety of genres. One oddity: If you're watching a livestream, there's no way to pause. You can only mute it.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Pluto TV
Specs & Configurations
Where available
US; Canada; Latin America; Germany; Switzerland; Austria; France; Italy; Spain; Norway; Denmark; Sweden; UK; Finland; AustraliaLive content?
YesProfiles per account
1
Add to compare
Roku
Photo Gallery 1/1
Roku
Best for Roku users
Roku Channel
Pros
400+ channels
Works on any Roku streaming device
Cons
Streaming is better outside of mobile app
Roku Channel is a free TV streaming service designed for people who own the company's streaming devices and TVs, but it's also available via Roku's apps for phones and tablets as well as online. The Roku Channel offers more than 400 live channels including a channel guide, with its existing selection of on-demand content. While the linear TV includes live news and lifestyle channels, the on-demand content ranges from Roku originals (like the Weird Al Yankovic biopic), to reality TV (Hoarders, Kitchen Nightmares) to popular series like 2 Broke Girls and House. You'll also find anime (live and on-demand) and crime shows. Unfortunately, not every TV series is complete (Bewitched, for example), and the service offers only a single episode in some cases. There's plenty of stuff to watch, including a dedicated kids section. There's also a solid array of classic movies, including It's a Wonderful Life and The Usual Suspects. In addition, you can subscribe to premium services including Paramount Plus, much like you can via Prime Video channels or the Apple TV app.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Roku
Specs & Configurations
Where available
US; Canada; UK; MexicoLive content
YesProfiles per account
1
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best recently revamped service
Sling Freestream
Pros
500+ channels
A free DVR service
Up to five profiles per account
Cons
On-demand movie selection could be better
Although Sling's live TV packages start at $40, Sling Freestream offers more than 40,000 titles of free on-demand TV, and movies and over 500 live TV channels. Sling Freestream is a bulked-up and rebranded version of Sling TV's former offering, Sling Free.Sling TV's free streaming service includes live streams for news, entertainment, sports, kids and more. You'll find channels for ABC News Live, The Walking Dead Universe and Bon Appetit and on-demand selections including Ryan's World, Kim's Convenience and To Kill a Mockingbird.You do not need to create an account when watching Sling Freestream, but if you do, it makes it easier to personalize what you watch, create profiles or use parental controls. The service also gives new users who create an account access to a free DVR. Sling Freestream is available to watch on a web browser and via the Sling app. No payment information is required for viewing.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Sling
Specs & Configurations
Where available
USLive content
YesProfiles per account
Up to 5
Add to compare
Plex
Photo Gallery 1/1
Plex
Best for extra features
Plex
Pros
600+ channels
Other features in addition to free movies and shows
Cons
May be able to find better movies on Tubi, Pluto
Starting as a way for users to stream content stored on users' computers, Plex has evolved to incorporate other sources such as free streaming TV. You don't need to install the Plex server, you just stream it with the basic Plex app, or if you want, sign up for an account.More than 600 live TV channels are in the mix with Plex's free streaming service, including Stories by AMC, Hallmark and niche 24/7 streams for certain series, including MythBusters and Anthony Bourdain: No Reservations. On-demand content includes The Age of Adaline, Weeds and Kitchen Nightmares.Movie fans can search by title and genre. Or you can check out themed collections such as Screen Legends or Midnight Movies.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Plex
Specs & Configurations
Where available
WorldwideLive content
YesProfiles per account
1
Add to compare
Screenshot by Rick Broida/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Screenshot by Rick Broida/CNET
Best for library card holders
Hoopla Digital
Pros
No ads
Cons
Only available through certain libraries
Got a library card? Check to see if your library has partnered with Hoopla. This digital-media service allows you to check out all kinds of stuff -- from ebooks to movies to TV shows. When you "borrow" one, you have 72 hours in which to watch it. Your library determines the total number of titles you can borrow each month. A bonus for this service is no commercials are interrupting your viewing experience.Hoopla's TV selection is something of a hodgepodge, with a smattering of well-known shows mixed in with a lot of self-help, documentary and family fare. For example, you'll find two seasons of Chewing Gum, both seasons of The Jim Gaffigan Show and lots of Ken Burns documentaries. Hoopla also has instructional videos from The Great Courses series, various kids shows and plenty of Acorn TV content that would otherwise require a subscription. Film selections rotate on and off the platform, so be sure to check the rotation on a regular basis.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Hoopla Digital
Specs & Configurations
Where available
US; Canada; Australia; New ZealandLive content
NoProfiles per account
1
Add to compareFactors to consider
Use them all: As all these services are free, you have nothing to lose by trying multiple out and determining which suits you best. You could also take a different approach by searching for a movie or show you want to watch and see if any free services offer it.On-demand or flipping through channels: The free TV streaming services often feature both on-demand content and live channels, but not always. You may prefer Pluto for channel surfing and Sling Freestream for on-demand binging, or the opposite. Think about what you want to get out of a free TV service and what each one provides.Ads on ads on ads: With most of these TV services, ads are the price you pay to watch titles for free. If you really can't stand ads, you may need to stick with premium subscriptions from streamers like Netflix and Max.Kids offering: Consider whether the free service offers kid-friendly content, and that ads may be a factor. Hoopla, if you can get it through your library, is an ad-free option on this list. How we test streaming services
With more than 200 streaming services in existence -- globally -- it can be hard sifting through each brand and its offerings. We narrowed this list down based on several factors, including accessibility, popularity, on-demand content, live channels and reliability. We watched each service on a TV and mobile device to evaluate its user interface and channel roster.These apps can be easily accessed on virtually any media player, smart TV, web browser or mobile device, and they offer a variety of content to suit genre preferences or age ranges. Because they're free services, there's added value for those that offer originals and live channels. When doing test runs of these services, we didn't encounter problems with crashing, lag time or choppy live broadcasts, but your mileage may vary. Other streaming services we tested
Peacock: The main way to access Peacock is by being a paying customer. Plans include Premium, which is $8 a month or $80 a year, and Premium Plus, which is $14 a month or $140 a year. NBCUniversal's streaming service also has a free tier, which may or may not be good news for you. As of January 2023, you must already be a Peacock Premium subscriber to use the free version of Peacock. In addition to being exclusive to older users, the tier severely limits what you can watch compared to if you paid for Peacock, so we opted not to include it on this version of our best list. If you've had a Peacock account long enough, the free tier should be available if you aren't actively paying for a Peacock subscription.
Free streaming services FAQs
What about free apps for networks like ABC, NBC, PBS, CW and others?
These are also viable options. You can watch shows from your favorite networks on their dedicated apps but we opted to not include them on this list as some (like ABC) require you to be registered with a cable/TV provider to view the most recent content. Network apps typically allow you to watch new episodes of your shows the next day -- or week -- via their app or website. In some cases, you can also watch live news broadcasts or episode reruns of TV series.
Show more
Do I have to sit through ads on these services?
Yes. The tradeoff for receiving content to stream for free is that you have to tolerate commercials. Whether you're watching a live channel or on-demand video, each of these services will run ads during your viewing experience. To keep the content free, they have to pay the bills with ads. The only exception on this list is Hoopla.
Show more
Which app has the most family-friendly content?
If you're looking for age-appropriate shows and movies, you'll find plenty of titles on Tubi, Roku Channel and Freevee for young children, tweens and teens. Pluto also features dedicated kids' channels with content from Nickelodeon, Lego, Garfield and more.
Show more
About the Author
Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor
Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
Read full bio
Also written by
Ty Pendlebury EditorAlso written by
Meara Isenberg Writer
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.