Artificial Intelligence - Learn about | AWS Training
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Training and Certification
Get Trained
Get Certified
Develop Your Team
AWS Partner Training
AWS Cloud Institute
More
Training›
Learn About
Learn about AI
Whether you’re new to artificial intelligence (AI), or an experienced builder, develop your knowledge and skills with training curated by the experts at AWS
Explore AI training
New to AI?
Digital training
Introduction to Generative AI - Art of the Possible
Start learning
Digital training
Machine Learning Essentials for Business and Technical Decision Makers
Start learning
Digital training
AWS SimuLearn: Generative AI Practitioner
Start learning
What is generative AI?
Generative AI is a transformative technology that can create new content, including text, images, code, and more, by learning patterns from existing data. It helps businesses and developers automate tasks, enhance creativity, and solve complex problems in ways that were previously impossible, while allowing users to maintain control over how the technology is implemented.
What are agents and agentic AI?
AI agents are software applications that can independently accomplish a goal that requires thoughtful and adaptable use of reasoning, judgement, tools, and resources.
Prepare to earn an industry recognized credential
Embrace the AI-driven future and unlock career growth. Find certification paths for AI and machine learning (ML) roles such as prompt engineer, ML engineer, ML Ops engineer, and data scientist.
Explore AI certification paths
Explore training by use-case
Customer Experience
Amazon Connect Chat and Messaging Fundamentals
Learn the benefits, typical use cases, and core concepts of Amazon Connect chat and messaging channels that allow your customers to reach your organization through text-based communications.
Start learning
Boost productivity
Generative BI with Amazon Q in Quicksight - Getting Started
Learn the architecture of Amazon Q in QuickSight and how the built-in features help you to build dashboards and derive insights from your data with natural language queries.
Start learning
Content Generation
Exploring Amazon Nova models using Amazon Bedrock
Learn the purpose, pricing, and the concepts of understanding text and creative content generation using Amazon Nova models.
Start learning
Process optimization
Machine Learning Learning Plan - Intelligent Document Processing
Learn how to build Intelligent Document Processing solutions on AWS and practice with hands-on labs.
Start learning
Find training by career path
Technical and Business Leaders
Generative AI for Executives
Learn the foundational concepts and terminology of generative AI and how to drive business value with generative AI.
Start learning
Technical and Business Leaders
AWS Artificial Intelligence Practitioner Learning Plan
Learn the essential knowledge and skills to become an artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) practitioner proficient in leveraging AWS services and tools.
Start learning
Developers
Generative AI Learning Plan for Developers
This learning plan introduces generative AI to software developers interested in leveraging large language models without fine-tuning.
Start learning
AI ML Specialists
Machine Learning Learning Plan
Learn to integrate machine learning and artificial intelligence into tools and applications.
Start learning
Solutions Architect
Building Generative AI Applications Using Amazon Bedrock
Learn how to build generative AI applications using either the Amazon Bedrock APIs or AWS-LangChain integration.
Start learning
Data Scientists
Amazon SageMaker Unified Studio Foundations
Whether you're just starting your machine learning and data analytics journey or advancing your existing skills, this course provides essential knowledge to help you understand the foundations of the SageMaker Unified Studio.
Start learning
Spotlight on AWS services
Generative AI
Agentic AI
Machine learning
AI infrastructure
Data foundation for AI
Generative AI
Amazon Q - Generative AI-powered Assistant Learning Plan
Introduction to Amazon Q, the most capable generative artificial intelligence (AI)-powered assistant for accelerating software development and leveraging companies' internal data.
Begin training »
Agentic AI
Amazon Bedrock AgentCore Getting Started
Learn how to effectively use AgentCore to build and scale reliable AI agents.
Begin training »
Machine learning
Amazon SageMaker AI Getting Started
Learn the benefits and technical concepts of Amazon SageMaker AI through a demonstration using the AWS Management Console.
Begin training »
AI infrastructure
AWS SimuLearn: Cloud Infrastructure with Generative AI
Review a real-world scenario, help a fictional customer design a solution on AWS, and learn how to build with Amazon Cloud Development Kit and Amazon Q.
Begin training »
Data foundation for AI
Amazon SageMaker Unified Studio Foundations
Learn how SageMaker Unified Studio brings together the functionality and tools from existing AWS Analytics and AI/ML services.
Begin training »
For AWS Partners
Spark your customers' business transformation with generative AI on AWS.
Visit the Generative AI Center of Excellence for AWS Partners
Looking to dive deeper?
AWS experts have constructed this downloadable guide to help you navigate a broad set of resources to develop your generative AI skills.
Download now
How AWS Training is inspiring learners
Video
A seasoned cloud engineer, Amelia, shares how she relies on AWS Skill Builder to stay current in the cloud scape.
Watch video
Blog
Learn how an infrastructure developer leverages AI certification to drive innovation
Read the story
Connect and learn
Live training on Twitch
Join our experts for live shows to ask questions, chat with the community, and get weekly resources straight to your inbox.
Sign up
Join our community
Learn, build, and connect with builders in the AWS community
Join now
Resources
More learning resources on AI
Explore resources
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.