I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
With Apple's big upgrade to the base iPhone 17, its redesign of the two Pro models, and the launch of iPhone Air, this might be the toughest year ever to pick the right device for you. But I've got recommendations.
Written by
Jason Hiner, Editor in ChiefEditor in Chief
Sept. 20, 2025 at 4:30 a.m. PT
This photo of the iPhone 17 Pro Max in Cosmic Orange was taken with the telephoto lens on an iPhone 17 Pro Max. Jason Hiner/ZDNETThe idea of "tyranny of choice" says that having a set of good choices is supposed to let everyone find exactly what makes them most happy, but the reality is that having so many good choices can often lead to anxiety, indecisiveness, and discontent. If we apply this concept to the iPhone 17 lineup, then Apple is quite the tyrant this year.After all, the base model iPhone 17 is more pro than ever and offers the best value-for-money in 2025. The iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max have addressed the two biggest weak spots of last year's Pro models. And the iPhone Air gives you a chance to use tomorrow's technology today. Also: I tested the iPhone 17 for 24 hours, and I'm already questioning if I need a ProI've upgraded my iPhone every year since the first iPhone in 2007 and I've spent hands-on time with all four of this year's iPhone models. And yet, my buying advice this year is wildly different than any other year in the past. And there are several reasons why.Let's unpack it by looking at each of the product lines, as well as who I'd recommend as the ideal upgrader for each one. The $799 iPhone 17 suits more people than everDo not sleep on the base model iPhone 17 this year. In recent years I mostly relegated my recommendations of the base model iPhone to kids, teenagers, first-time iPhone users, and people who just needed a phone that would work because their old phone had a cracked screen or a battery that wouldn't hold a charge -- and they wanted to limit how much they spent on a phone. Not so this year.The fact that Apple poured so many upgrades into the iPhone 17 was the surprise of the 2025 Apple Event for me. First of all, Apple finally did a major facelift to the iPhone 17's screen technology, kicking it up to 6.3-inches (from 6.1 last year) with thinner bezels, 120Hz ProMotion display, 3000 nits of peak brightness, an anti-reflective coating, and an always-on display. Also: Want Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses? You have to book a demo first - and they are going fastApple also upgraded the cameras on the iPhone 17, moving to a 48MP dual fusion camera with a 48MP main camera and 48MP ultrawide. Plus, the iPhone 17 gets the same upgraded selfie camera technology as the Pros and Air get this year. That's a 24MP square sensor that effectively shoots 18MP images in either portrait or landscape mode and can now automatically switch between the two without forcing you to flip your phone. Even better, you can let the camera use machine learning to find all the faces in the shot and automatically use portrait or landscape mode to get the best photo. Kudos to Apple for not keeping this new camera tech in the Pro phones only this year.
The base model iPhone 17 compares very well to last year's iPhone 16 Pro. Nina Raemont/ZDNETApple also kept the price of the iPhone 17 at $799 while raising the base storage from 128GB to 256GB. Last year, 256GB of storage on the iPhone 16 would have put the price of the phone at $899. From that perspective, Apple effectively gave the iPhone 17 a $100 price cut. Likewise, the iPhone 17's two biggest Android competitors, the Pixel 10 and the Samsung Galaxy S25 still start with 128GB of storage on their base models and both cost $799. Also: I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgradeFrom another perspective, this year's iPhone 17 is nearly identical to last year's iPhone 16 Pro, except that it doesn't have the telephoto zoom, but it adds the next-gen selfie camera and the dual-capture camera. And last year's iPhone 16 Pro started at $999 for 128GB of storage and $1,099 for 256GB.As a result, there are people I would have previously recommended to opt for the iPhone Pro line who I'm very happy to recommend the iPhone 17 base model to instead this year, saving them a couple hundred dollars. If you're someone who doesn't use the telephoto zoom very much and you're coming from an iPhone 14 Pro or an iPhone 13 Pro (or earlier), then I'd recommend considering the iPhone 17 this year. It's a much more powerful and serious phone now.The iPhone Air offers a taste of the futureThe iPhone Air steps into a bit of a cursed place in the iPhone lineup between the base model and Pros -- a place where the iPhone 12-13 Mini and the iPhone 14-16 Plus models all struggled to generate much interest over the past half decade. Like Samsung's Galaxy S25 Edge, the iPhone Air is considered a technology demonstration of just how thin its engineers can make a phone as a precursor to a leap forward in foldables -- the Fold 7 in Samsung's case.
Here's the iPhone Air in one of the new bumper cases that Apple is making. Jason Hiner/ZDNETSo the iPhone Air isn't just haunted by the past, it's also standing in the shadow of the long-awaited foldable iPhone that's widely expected to launch in the fall of 2026. Also: I replaced my iPhone 16 Pro Max with the iPhone Air - here's my buying advice nowStill, the iPhone Air is undoubtedly the one that generated the biggest wow factor when holding it in my hands. It's super impressive how thin, light, and futuristic it feels. I'd encourage you to go into an Apple Store or one of the wireless carrier stores starting on Sept. 19 to see if you get the same emotional reaction to holding a phone that is basically the width of a USB-C port. There's no doubt that it's one of the most impressive technological achievements of 2025. But should you buy it?
Korean pop star Jeong Yunho and Tim Cook look at the iPhone Air at the September 2025 Apple Event. Jason Hiner/ZDNETFor the vast majority of iPhone upgraders, I'm still going to say no -- not when the base model iPhone 17 has better cameras and costs less. And if you're a true power user, then you're not going to be satisfied with the battery life or the cameras on the iPhone Air. But if you're someone who loves to live on the cutting edge of tech and run ahead of the pack, you're probably going to be pretty giddy when you put your hands on the iPhone Air. You're probably someone who would have loved to wear Google Glass or the Apple Vision Pro and you're one of the leading candidates to get the iPhone Fold in 2026. The iPhone Air will let you live in that future. Just make sure you order the
if you regularly use your phone for more than about four hours a day. The iPhone 17 Pro Max solves big problemsThe iPhone 16 Pro Max and the iPhone 15 Pro Max are two phones that I've loved using during the past two years. I especially loved using the main camera on these phones to take more photos than any other smartphone camera or even my professional Sony mirrorless camera over the past two years. But I also struggled with the same two problems on both of those phones. Also: I tried Apple's 2 big AI features announced at the iPhone 17 event - and both are game changersFirst, the zoom camera was simply not up to the same standard of quality as the main camera -- as much I wanted it to be because I love zoom photography. Shots taken on the 5x telephoto (first introduced on the iPhone 15 Pro models) were okay for social media, but the quality would typically fall apart when I started editing them. So I regularly had to reach for my Sony mirrorless whenever I wanted high-quality zoom shots. Meanwhile, I've been printing high-quality photos from the iPhone's main camera for over a decade.
The iPhone 17 Pro Max in Deep Blue. Jason Hiner/ZDNETThe other big problem I had with the two titanium iPhone 15 and 16 Pro Max phones over the past two years was regular overheating. Whenever I was doing a lot of photo or video shooting, when I was in crowded urban areas with weak wireless signals, or when I had the phone out in the sun for extended periods, these two Pro Max phones would get incredibly hot. And when they overheated, the battery would start to drain very quickly. That's definitely not the dynamic you want to see from an expensive, high-end phone.  I was thrilled that Apple has addressed both problems in the iPhone 17 Pro Max -- as well as the iPhone 17 Pro, which is the same exact phone except that it has a 6.3-inch screen instead of a 6.9-inch screen and a smaller battery. Also: Should you upgrade to an iPhone 17 Pro from last year's model? I am - here's whyLet's talk about the thermals first. Apple has replaced titanium and gone back to aluminum for the casing of the iPhone 17 Pro Max. Aluminum can be up to 5-10 times more effective at conducting and dispersing heat than titanium. But Apple also added a vapor chamber cooling system that uses deionized water to cool the phone's A19 Pro chip and allow it to run at maximum strength while not overheating. I need to do a lot of testing over weeks and months, but I'm very encouraged that the iPhone 17 Pro Max addresses the overheating issue head-on in its design.When it comes to the telephoto zoom camera, I'm also encouraged by the way Apple has addressed this in the iPhone 17 Pro Max. First, Apple upgraded its tetraprism zoom from a 12MP sensor to a 48MP sensor, matching the 48MP sensor on the main camera. Then, Apple made this a 4x sensor (rather than 5x), which appeared to be a curious downgrade at first. However, having more pixels enabled an 8x zoom cropped to 12MP, which Apple boldly called an optical quality 8x. Fortunately, I got to try it out, and I'm impressed by what I've seen so far. Below is an example of what the 8x zoom lens is capable of, and it's higher quality than any zoom shot I've taken with an iPhone before.
Example of a photo taken with the 8x zoom of the iPhone 17 Pro Max. Jason Hiner/ZDNETOf course, I'll need to do a lot more testing with the zoom camera before I can say whether it's ready to take on more of my everyday zoom photography. I'm also going to compare it with the Pixel 10 Pro XL zoom, which I'm also testing. Like last year, I plan to do a dedicated review of the new iPhone 17 Pro camera system. So keep an eye out for that in early October. Also: iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared both ultra-thin phones to decide a winnerNevertheless, I'm now going to make a recommendation that I've never made before -- with an asterisk. If you were like me and ran into lots of overheating and zoom problems with the iPhone 15 Pro Max or even the iPhone 16 Pro Max, I think you may want to consider the possibility of a more-rapid-than-usual upgrade to the iPhone 17 Pro Max this year. Again, I'm going to do more testing before I definitively make that recommendation, but I want to put it on your radar. I'll be doing more rigorous testing over the coming weeks and I'll report back. I'll also keep an eye out for some good trade-in deals that might ease the blow of a rapid upgrade.Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Should you upgrade to an iPhone 17 Pro from last year's model? I am - here's why
Why I'm recommending this iPhone 17 model to most people (and it's not the Pro Max)
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use