10 open-source apps I recommend every Windows user try - for free | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Windows
10 open-source apps I recommend every Windows user try - for free
These free, open-source tools will make your Windows PC more powerful and give you a serious productivity boost.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 3:00 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
LibreOffice / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysIf Windows is your OS of choice, consider these open-source apps.There are tons of open-source apps for just about any task.These are all free to install and use on Windows.I've been using open-source software for a very long time. In fact, the last time I didn't use open-source software, Bill Clinton was president of the US.Open-source software is available for nearly every operating system on the market, from desktops to phones, and I often find open-source apps are superior to their proprietary counterparts. If you're a Windows user, you don't have to remain locked into closed-source software, because there are so many alternatives from which you can choose.Also: Want to ditch Windows? This Linux distro makes that transition easyLet me introduce you to some of my favorites.
1. LibreOffice LibreOffice has been my go-to office suite since way back when it was a twinkle in the eye of StarOffice, and I haven't looked back since. LibreOffice includes all the tools you're used to in an office suite and even includes a database component (similar to MS Access). And with a customizable user interface, you can work with a modern UI or one that recalls the days of yore. Also: 6 ways LibreOffice is better than Google Docs for serious writing workLibreOffice is installed locally, so you don't have to worry about a third-party cloud service accessing your information. You can set LibreOffice to automatically save in the MS Office default formats, so collaborating with those using Microsoft's tool is a no-brainer. LibreOffice is free to download and install for Windows.
2. Flow Launcher Flow Launcher is a quick file search and app launcher for Windows. With Flow Launcher, you use a customizable hot key to launch the tool and then search for whatever it is you're looking for. You can open apps, search for files, and browse the internet with your default search engine. Flow Launcher includes themes, animations, and sounds, and even allows you to build your own customizations. There are also community-created plugins to extend the feature set. Also: Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to actFlow Launcher is free to download and install. 3. Duplicati Duplicati is a zero-trust backup solution that can back up from Windows (or any OS) to any destination you need. You can back up to Dropbox, Box, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, and Amazon Web Services, or you can back up to other machines on your LAN for more privacy. Duplicati allows for scheduling and remote management, and it has a straightforward installation. Your backups are fully encrypted, and you can easily monitor them for real-time insights via a well-designed dashboard. Also: Your Windows PC has a secretly useful backup tool - here's how to access itDuplicati is free for personal use.
4. Nextcloud If you're tired of using Google or Microsoft's cloud-based offerings (especially out of fear that they are using your data to train LLMs), there's always Nextcloud, which is the open-source, locally run equivalent to cloud offerings. Nextcloud includes everything you need for file storage, sharing, collaborating, communicating, organizing, and more. There's also an app store where you can install plugins to extend the feature set. Also: The best cloud storage services of 2025: Expert testedYou can install and use Nextcloud on Windows for free and even install the Nextcloud Desktop client for even easier usage. 5. Franz If you use several messaging apps and services, you might want to consider Franz, as it brings all of those messaging apps into one user-friendly GUI. Franz allows you to add WhatsApp, Facebook, Messenger, Slack, Telegram, Google Calendar, Discord, LinkedIn, Trello, Office 365 Outlook, Google Keep, and more together, so you don't have to switch back and forth between apps. You can add as many accounts as you want and easily switch between them without leaving the Franz UI. Also: 5 tools I trust to keep my online conversations private and anonymousFranz is free to install and use.
6. YAZB YAZB (aka YAZB Reborn) makes it possible to create custom Windows top bars (similar to that of MacOS) that can display helpful system information, such as battery status, internet speeds, weather, and more -- all with a clean, minimal, elegant style. Also: How much RAM do you actually need in 2025? I broke it down for Windows and Mac usersYAZB also gives you quick access to shutdown/restart controls, customizable themes/icons/layouts, and allows you to add as many helpful widgets as you need.
7. File Converter If you've ever needed to easily convert or compress a file in Windows, File Converter has your back. Using a right-click context menu entry (within the file manager), you can convert audio, video, images, and documents from one format to another. In the case of documents, you can convert nearly any format into a PDF. You can also compress files in the same way.Also: How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - 2 free optionsThe only caveat is that, in order to convert MS Office files, you'll have to have MS Office installed. You can customize the application order within the context menu and even add or remove presets. File Converter is free to install and use on Windows.
8. Bitwarden If you don't use a password manager, you should start immediately. If you need a password manager, you should place Bitwarden at the top of your list. Not only is Bitwarden open-source, but it's also one of the best password managers on the market. With every feature you'll need (including a web browser extension), Bitwarden can do more to help keep you protected by simplifying the process of using strong, unique passwords. This open-source password manager includes a password generator (that can do both passwords and pass phrases), Bitwarden Send (to send files and text safely), and more. Also: NordPass vs. Bitwarden: Which password manager is best?Bitwarden can be installed and used for free on Windows. You might even consider purchasing a license, as it gives you more collaboration features, which can come in handy with a large family or organization.
9. AutoHotKey AutoHotKey is an automation scripting language for Windows that allows you to define hotkeys for both mouse and keyboard, remap keys or buttons, and more. With AutoHotKey, you can automate just about any desktop task. Also: 5 free Windows PC apps I always install first (and how they improve your workflow)Essentially, this app makes it easy to work with hotkeys and macros, while helping you work more efficiently. There is a learning curve to AutoHotKey, but once you've learned it, you'll be glad you took the time to do so. AutoHotKey can be installed and used for free on Windows.
10. Ollama If you want to use AI but don't like the idea of a third party using your queries or data to train their LLMs, consider the open-source Ollama, which is easy to use and even includes a well-designed GUI for interacting and adding models. Also: This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get itWith Ollama, you can work with a large selection of models, ranging from the tiny to the very large. One thing to keep in mind, however, is that the larger the model, the more system resources it will require. You would also be best served by using Ollama on a Windows machine with a dedicated GPU. Ollama can be installed and used for free on Windows. Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
6 note-taking apps for Mac and PC I swear by after trying them all
How to easily switch your PC from Windows to Linux Mint - for free
How to clear your Windows 11 PC cache (and why it makes such a big difference)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use