Iconic 80s Vectrex console reimagined for the modern day with OLED display, microSD, and wireless controllers — half-size Vectrex Mini could cost as little as $99 for early birds | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Microcontroller Projects
Hardcore fan celebrates Alien: Earth by building a fully-working M314 Motion Tracker replica
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
Portable Monitors
PC second screen costs just $2.57 on AliExpress, but it is just 0.96-inches
Retro Gaming
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Retro Gaming
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
Retro Gaming
Faux-CRT monitor designed to pair up with retro mini PCs to recreate CRT feeling
Retro Gaming
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Nintendo
Nintendo revives Virtual Boy after 30 years for the Switch and Switch 2
Handheld Gaming
OneXSugar gets demoed, showing a dual-screen Android handheld that transforms into a Switch and a 3DS
Storage
Remaking a Commodore 64 Datasette from 1982 using 1993 microcassette tech
Linux
Linux gaming OS Kazeta promises ‘console gaming experience of the 1990s’ for PC users
Handheld Gaming
Intel Lunar Lake-powered gaming handheld with 3D display will sell for $1,699
Handheld Gaming
Modder builds gaming handheld powered by an RTX 4090 laptop GPU and Intel i9-14900HX
Retro Gaming
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
Handheld Gaming
Self-taught modder builds completely transparent Game Boy Color circuit board that actually works
Video Games
Retro Gaming
Iconic 80s Vectrex console reimagined for the modern day with OLED display, microSD, and wireless controllers — half-size Vectrex Mini could cost as little as $99 for early birds
News
By
Hassam Nasir
published
21 September 2025
The cult classic vector gaming console returns.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Vectrex)
Retro gaming has seen a resurgence in recent years, thanks in part to a lot of cult classics being revived as fan projects, modernized to fit in the gaming landscape of today (or offer an antithesis to it). The latest in the line of these revivals is the Vectrex Mini — a scaled-down version of the original Vectrex home console, now adorned with all sorts of upgrades that not only make it worth considering all over again, but also genuinely improve the appeal of the device to a solid retro machine.Check out the Vectrex Mini prototype, the screen rendering is still being refined but seeing it in action already gives an idea of the experience...Full video: https://t.co/B44vUdMLm8Vectrex mini Kickstarter: https://t.co/2W0S7bkWNe pic.twitter.com/scmlRICX8JSeptember 19, 2025For those who weren't around back then, the Vectrex is somewhat of a legend in the retro gaming community. Back in the 80s, it was already doing something different from ColecoVision and Intellivision — themselves standouts compared to Atari's reign at the time. It focused on vector graphics titles and completely eliminated the need for a separate TV. The Vectrex came with its own CRT display embedded onto the console, like an Arcade machine, that could display sharp vector graphics with their signature glowing lines. It was an all-in-one gaming system when such a concept was almost unheard of.It flopped, unfortunately, but the legacy it left behind paved the way for a generation of handhelds and plug-and-play systems to come. The way its controller was nicely tucked away right in the console inspired the docking systems we have today; even the homebrew culture that's been the backbone of emulation can be traced back to the Vectrex — the community resorted to modding and making their own games since the library was so limited. Its design was also ahead of time, so while direct influence isn't where the Vectrex shines, its impact silently echoes through the years, making it the perfect contender for a revival.
You may like
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
Faux-CRT monitor designed to pair up with retro mini PCs to recreate CRT feeling
(Image credit: “Vectrexes” by Marcin Wichary, CC BY 2.0)The Vectrex Mini is, thus, born. The team has worked hard to keep as much of the original design as possible, while shrinking it down considerably. Given its "mini" nature (miniature?), the size has been cut down by about half and the screen is now a 5-inch AMOLED panel designed to emulate the look of old CRTs (we shall see). The controller is smaller, too, but it's now wireless and sports the same button layout and arcade-style joystick — though that might become cramped for some, but thankfully it seems like third-party USB controllers should be supported as well.The Vectrex Mini is powered by USB-C, and features an HDMI port for connecting the device to a TV and a MicroSD Card slot to load up your own games, alongside the 12 it already comes with. The original Vectrex had a monochrome screen and used physical overlays to "display" color, the Vectrex Mini will honor that by emulating different colors for each of the built-in games in software, thanks to the OLED display. All of this is currently in prototype form only, which the creators showed off at Gamescom.A closer look at the Vectrex Mini prototype... pic.twitter.com/TbvNkV9FN8August 21, 2025Pricing hasn't been officially disclosed, but there are murmurs of a €150 ask, which is quite reasonable considering the original Vectrex now goes for upwards of $800 on the aftermarket. The Vectrex Mini will be available through Kickstarter, where the campaign will launch in November. There will be a special white edition for €219, too, with an exclusive badge and a certificate of authenticity to boot. Furthermore, we hear there'll be early bird pricing at just $99 for the first 50 units, and $129 for the first 200.
(Image credit: Vectrex)We don't know whether the console will be fully open-source, but the creators themselves have been open about community support; the Vectrex Mini runs on a VecX-based emulator itself. As is customary with projects like these, Vectrex Mini is not made the same people who created the original Vectrex; Neo Retro bought the licensing rights and has developed the Vectrex Mini in France, with David “Flynn” Oghia leading the team. If you want to see a similar retro revival, check out the GamerCard, made by the nephew of the ZX Spectrum's creator.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See all comments (1)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
Read more
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
Faux-CRT monitor designed to pair up with retro mini PCs to recreate CRT feeling
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Nintendo revives Virtual Boy after 30 years for the Switch and Switch 2
OneXSugar gets demoed, showing a dual-screen Android handheld that transforms into a Switch and a 3DS
Latest in Retro Gaming
Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
DOOM multiplayer tribute gets coded in 'pure SQL' and runs at 30FPS
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
Latest in News
HighPoint's adapter enables GPUDirect storage — up to 64 GB/s from drive to GPU, bypassing the CPU
Elon Musk's Grok AI to be used by US government at a price of 42 cents per agency— Trump admin joining Meta, OpenAI in recent trend of AI govt contracts
ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
bit_user
I only learned of this console about 6-7 years ago, when I saw an in-person demo by the CMU Computer Club on a real Vectrex. It was probably this:
LYYUcvPkxtgView: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LYYUcvPkxtg
I think they also showed an emulator running side-by-side and it's was pretty much spot-on. IIRC, it even captured the localized glow effect of leaving the beam on, after it went past the active display area.
If you're not familiar with Vectrex, it's a neat contrast to other consoles of the era. It's based entirely on line-graphics, which are drawn by sweeping the electron beam across the CRT, rather than pushing pixels into a frame buffer.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.