CNET Editors’ Choice: Our Top Picks for Online Subscription Services - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Tech
Article updated on August 15, 2024 at 7:40 AM PDT
Written by
CNET staff
CNET Editors’ Choice: Our Top Picks for Online Subscription Services
You can only sign up for so many streaming services without going broke. Here are the best ones, along with our favorites for music, gaming and VPN.
Written by
CNET staff
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Editors' choice
The CNET Editors' Choice distinction represents the strongest recommendation of a product or service evaluated by CNET's experts.
Learn more
OUR WINNERS
Netflix
Viewers looking for new content to watch every week, whether it’s a nostalgic TV series from the past, a Netflix original production or licensed titles owned by outside networks like HBO, USA or NBC. It’s hard to beat Netflix’s extensive catalog with content that spans multiple age groups, genres and geographical regions. Its diverse library keeps feeding audiences with originals like Squid Game, Bridgerton, Baby Reindeer, Arcane, Wednesday and Supacell. But its lineup of preschool content, reality shows and international titles consistently offers variety, and thanks to deals with studios such as Sony and Warner Bros., subscribers also get newer theatrical releases like Godzilla Minus One or Aquaman 2, and HBO faves like Warrior and Sex and the City. In addition to offering video games, live events and a vast assortment of content, Netflix’s interface is one of the most reliably user-friendly experiences in the game. From search to watch list reminders to its recommendation engine, it’s smooth and intuitive. We like that you can delete titles from your Continue Watching row, sift through the dedicated sections for new and upcoming releases or use the hidden codes feature. While we’re not exactly fans of streaming service price hikes, Netflix provides plenty of new – and old – stuff to watch for anyone in your household. – Kourtnee Jackson, senior editor Learn more
Disney Plus
Families with kids, or for fans of Star Wars, Marvel, Pixar and Disney. Disney Plus is a one-stop shop for Disney-owned brands that includes classic movies from the Disney vault, Marvel blockbusters and original TV shows, Star Wars franchise titles, concert films and now, a slice of Hulu content. Bundling Disney Plus with Hulu makes it affordable, and the addition of more mature content is a bonus for an app that’s generally catered to a family-friendly audience. Streaming Disney and Pixar animated titles along with exclusive originals, Abbott Elementary, The Bear or Luke Cage in one location is convenient. Like Netflix, Disney Plus has a well-designed interface, and the hubs make it easy for kids and adult to use. Parental controls come in handy when you want to create customizable profiles by age or content rating, and like other streamers, there’s a selection of fun avatars to choose from. – Kourtnee Jackson Learn more
Crunchyroll
Longtime anime fans or newcomers who want access to simulcasts or its large catalog of popular titles.  While you can watch some ad-supported content with a free account, Crunchyroll’s premium subscriptions allow you to stream its full, massive anime lineup without ads, including originals, movies and new episode simulcasts from Japan. Crunchyroll’s selection is huge and the ability to watch new episodes from Japan is the main draw. The service is relatively affordable and is available in more than 200 countries. You can stream titles in their original Japanese format or choose from subtitled versions in roughly 10 different languages. Depending on your subscription type, members can get added perks like Crunchyroll Game Vault access, merch discounts or access to the platform’s lineup of music videos and concerts. Watch new or old anime content all day, every day, and because Crunchyroll keeps an organized, up-to-date simulcast calendar, you know what’s coming each season, month or week.– Kourtnee Jackson Learn more
Hulu + Live TV
This live TV streaming service includes dozens of popular channels, an intuitive interface and users can cancel at any time. If you're looking for a true cable TV replacement then Hulu Plus Live TV is the ultimate streaming service. In addition to live TV, Hulu has an unmatched library featuring both original programming and the history of TV itself. If you want to watch it, even if it's a show that aired a single season in 1967, it's most likely to be here. There's no extra gear to worry about including rental set top boxes which can break down. No technicians to schedule. To watch Hulu Plus Live TV you just need an internet connection and your TV remote. It’s cable TV without the hassle, and with apps for every platform it lets you watch wherever you are.– Ty Pendlebury, editor Learn more
Sling
Serious cord cutters who are looking to save some money will love Sling TV. As the most affordable service, it does involve a little more DIY than its more deluxe competitors. Namely, it doesn’t include the broadcast channels -- ABC, NBC, CBS et al -- but you can buy a separate tuner box and it integrates with your service’s program guide.  The carriage fees that broadcast channels charge to cable TV and streaming services is one of the reasons user fees keep increasing. By Sling TV getting rid of broadcast channels, you’re not paying for network shows you never watch. You can then add an antenna to your TV and watch OTA for free! When you’re already forking out money for video and music streaming, why spend up to $100 on live TV as well? Sling TV, especially the Blue stream, offers most of the popular channels and costs half that of YouTube TV and Hulu.– Ty Pendlebury Learn more
Spotify
Spotify draws the longest bow when it comes to audio entertainment, and is better for it. Its huge catalog of music is supplemented by podcasts and audiobooks which means it’s suitable for almost anyone looking for a high-value subscription service. Spotify has always had the best features, including excellent social sharing and collaboration add-ons. The yearly Wrapped continues to dictate to other services how they should roundup their users’ listening habits. If you had to tally up the individual costs of the features you get from a Spotify subscription you’d be looking at over $30. For just $12 a month you’re getting a lot. It may not have the high resolution streaming of its competitors, but most people aren’t fussed by the differences. The best value music service is right here.– Ty Pendlebury  Learn more
Xbox Game Pass Ultimate
Xbox and PC gamers who move through games fast or are always looking for something new. Game Pass Ultimate is a gamer’s version of Netflix, and it gives you access to over 500 games including series like Halo and Dead Space, as well as games like Diablo 4. We especially like that, it gives you Day 1 releases at no extra charge. One year of Game Pass Ultimate will cost you $240. That sounds like a lot, but that covers the price of three new AAA games, which can be $70 upon release. So when Doom: The Dark Ages, Gears of War: E-Day and Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 they will likely cost $210 combined, and that doesn’t include access to online multiplayer. Plus, with Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision Blizzard, Microsoft will likely add games from Activision Blizzard’s back catalog to the service. So if you plan on playing a lot of games, you’ll save money with this service in the long run, and who doesn’t like saving money?– Zachary McAuliffe, writer Learn more
Apple Arcade
Gamers with an iPhone looking for a fun mobile gaming experience, or parents who want to introduce their children to gaming. Apple Arcade’s strength lies in its mobile game catalog and the frequency it adds new games. It offers subscribers over 200 games now without any additional in-game fees, and the service adds new games every month. Apple Arcade costs $7 a month, and you can share your subscription with up to five other people. That means you and some friends can split the subscription fee and you’ll always have others to game with, or you can play games with your children at no extra charge. So you can play NBA 2K24 Arcade Edition against your friends, or Hello Kitty Island Adventure with your kids. Being able to game on your iPhone is great if you have a commute, and many games can be played on iPad or MacBook once you get home.– Zachary McAuliffe Learn more
ExpressVPN
Anyone looking for the smoothest VPN experience for just about any online activity. If there’s a VPN that’s best prepared for the future, it’s ExpressVPN. While most VPNs are working on addressing current online privacy challenges, ExpressVPN’s post-quantum protection has got you covered well into the future by raising encryption standards to guard against decryption from quantum computers.  ExpressVPN is our top VPN pick overall and one of the best across many of our VPN best lists for a reason: It’s a really good VPN for pretty much any use case. ExpressVPN is exceptional for unblocking international streaming content, but we also appreciate its unrivaled commitment to privacy and transparency. Its TrustedServer technology sets the bar for how a VPN server network should protect user privacy, and its 18 independent audits to-date go well above and beyond what other VPNs have published. If you want to stream movies and shows from around the world, enhance your online gaming experience, protect your privacy while traveling, evade online censorship or just hide your internet activity from your internet service provider, ExpressVPN is ridiculously easy to use and connects in a snap to a wide selection of 105 different countries.– Attila Tomaschek, writer Learn more
Surfshark
Anyone looking for a premium VPN experience at a great price (as long as you get the yearly or two-year plan).  Surfshark’s Nexus Network technology allows the provider to deliver some innovative privacy features you won’t find with most other VPNs. Through the power of the Nexus Network, you’ll be able to double-VPN through any two servers of your choosing with Dynamic Multihop and automatically change up your IP address every few minutes with IP Rotator. Besides sporting a pretty cool name, Surfshark is a top-notch VPN with an impressive feature set at a price that’s easy on the wallet. With Surfshark, you’ll get all of the privacy protections you’d get from a premium VPN provider like a kill switch, DNS leak protection, obfuscation and a RAM-only server infrastructure. But you’ll also get access to some really helpful tools that you won’t find elsewhere, like the Nexus Network suite of features and Surfshark’s Alternative ID, which lets you generate a fake alias, complete with a full name, date of birth, home address and an email address that automatically forwards messages to your real email address. Use it to keep your true identity private when registering online accounts. Surfshark is also quite fast, great for streaming international content and allows for unlimited simultaneous connections. Good luck finding another VPN that offers these kinds of premium features for $60 per year.– Attila Tomaschek Learn more
OUR WINNERS NetflixDisney PlusCrunchyrollHulu + Live TVSlingSpotifyXbox Game Pass UltimateApple ArcadeExpressVPNSurfshark Yes, subscription fatigue is real, but it's a fact of modern life that to get the content you want, you'll need to subscribe to a service. Or two, or four, or 20, depending on how much stuff you want and how much you can afford to shell out every month. So the next question becomes: What are the best services to subscribe to?We've got you. Below you'll find all of our favorite services for TV, movies, music and gaming. We've also listed our favorite VPNs, which are specialized services that can protect your privacy and unlock streaming content that's blocked because of your location.As always, our expert editors have tested and compared everything on this list hands-on to arrive at our top recommendations. Only the best of the best earn an Editors' Choice Award, and we'll explain exactly why we love this stuff – and why you will too.
David Katzmaier
Editorial Director -- Personal Tech
Streaming services for TV and moviesIn 2024, you'll find plenty of choices in streaming services that deliver new (and familiar) TV shows and movies, but three rise to the top. One is our favorite service overall, another offers a massive collection of family- and fan-friendly content and our final pick is a must-have for anime enthusiasts. All offer discounts (or even free content) if you're willing to put up with ads, and you can always pay more for ad-free and premium features.
Netflix
★ Multi-year award winner
Editors' choice
James Martin/CNET
See at Netflix
Who is it best for?Viewers looking for new content to watch every week, whether it’s a nostalgic TV series from the past, a Netflix original production or licensed titles owned by outside networks like HBO, USA or NBC.Our favorite thingIt’s hard to beat Netflix’s extensive catalog with content that spans multiple age groups, genres and geographical regions. Its diverse library keeps feeding audiences with originals like Squid Game, Bridgerton, Baby Reindeer, Arcane, Wednesday and Supacell. But its lineup of preschool content, reality shows and international titles consistently offers variety, and thanks to deals with studios such as Sony and Warner Bros., subscribers also get newer theatrical releases like Godzilla Minus One or Aquaman 2, and HBO faves like Warrior and Sex and the City.Why we love itIn addition to offering video games, live events and a vast assortment of content, Netflix’s interface is one of the most reliably user-friendly experiences in the game. From search to watch list reminders to its recommendation engine, it’s smooth and intuitive. We like that you can delete titles from your Continue Watching row, sift through the dedicated sections for new and upcoming releases or use the hidden codes feature. While we’re not exactly fans of streaming service price hikes, Netflix provides plenty of new – and old – stuff to watch for anyone in your household. – Kourtnee Jackson, senior editor Read our full review.
Disney Plus
★ Multi-year award winner
Editors' choice
James Martin/CNET
See at Disney+
Who is it best for?Families with kids, or for fans of Star Wars, Marvel, Pixar and Disney.Our favorite thingDisney Plus is a one-stop shop for Disney-owned brands that includes classic movies from the Disney vault, Marvel blockbusters and original TV shows, Star Wars franchise titles, concert films and now, a slice of Hulu content.Why we love itBundling Disney Plus with Hulu makes it affordable, and the addition of more mature content is a bonus for an app that’s generally catered to a family-friendly audience. Streaming Disney and Pixar animated titles along with exclusive originals, Abbott Elementary, The Bear or Luke Cage in one location is convenient. Like Netflix, Disney Plus has a well-designed interface, and the hubs make it easy for kids and adult to use. Parental controls come in handy when you want to create customizable profiles by age or content rating, and like other streamers, there’s a selection of fun avatars to choose from. – Kourtnee Jackson Read our full review.
Crunchyroll
Editors' choice
James Martin/CNET
See at Crunchyroll
Who is it best for?Longtime anime fans or newcomers who want access to simulcasts or its large catalog of popular titles. Our favorite thingWhile you can watch some ad-supported content with a free account, Crunchyroll’s premium subscriptions allow you to stream its full, massive anime lineup without ads, including originals, movies and new episode simulcasts from Japan.Why we love itCrunchyroll’s selection is huge and the ability to watch new episodes from Japan is the main draw. The service is relatively affordable and is available in more than 200 countries. You can stream titles in their original Japanese format or choose from subtitled versions in roughly 10 different languages. Depending on your subscription type, members can get added perks like Crunchyroll Game Vault access, merch discounts or access to the platform’s lineup of music videos and concerts. Watch new or old anime content all day, every day, and because Crunchyroll keeps an organized, up-to-date simulcast calendar, you know what’s coming each season, month or week.– Kourtnee Jackson Read our full review.
Live TV streaming for cord cuttersReady to finally cut the cable TV cord? Still interested in the option to watch dozens of your favorite channels, including local news, sports and live events? Our two picks below deliver cable TV channels without the cable box, extra fees or hassle of long-term contracts. One is our best overall choice (and includes a sweet bundle) while the other is our top pick for budget subscribers.
Hulu + Live TV
★ Multi-year award winner
Editors' choice
Sarah Tew/CNET
See at Hulu
Who's it best forThis live TV streaming service includes dozens of popular channels, an intuitive interface and users can cancel at any time. If you're looking for a true cable TV replacement then Hulu Plus Live TV is the ultimate streaming service.Our favorite thingIn addition to live TV, Hulu has an unmatched library featuring both original programming and the history of TV itself. If you want to watch it, even if it's a show that aired a single season in 1967, it's most likely to be here.Why we love itThere's no extra gear to worry about including rental set top boxes which can break down. No technicians to schedule. To watch Hulu Plus Live TV you just need an internet connection and your TV remote. It’s cable TV without the hassle, and with apps for every platform it lets you watch wherever you are.– Ty Pendlebury, editor Read our full review.
Sling
★ Multi-year award winner
Editors' choice
Sling/CNET
See at Sling TV
Who is it best for?Serious cord cutters who are looking to save some money will love Sling TV. As the most affordable service, it does involve a little more DIY than its more deluxe competitors. Namely, it doesn’t include the broadcast channels -- ABC, NBC, CBS et al -- but you can buy a separate tuner box and it integrates with your service’s program guide. Our favorite thingThe carriage fees that broadcast channels charge to cable TV and streaming services is one of the reasons user fees keep increasing. By Sling TV getting rid of broadcast channels, you’re not paying for network shows you never watch. You can then add an antenna to your TV and watch OTA for free!Why we love itWhen you’re already forking out money for video and music streaming, why spend up to $100 on live TV as well? Sling TV, especially the Blue stream, offers most of the popular channels and costs half that of YouTube TV and Hulu.– Ty Pendlebury Read our full review.
Music and gaming servicesJust like TV shows and movies, music and gaming are also available via a subscription. And if you're a heavy listener of tunes, or an avid gamer on Xbox or Apple phones, the services below rise above the pack.
Spotify
★ Multi-year award winner
Editors' choice
James Martin/CNET
See at Spotify
Who is it best for?Spotify draws the longest bow when it comes to audio entertainment, and is better for it. Its huge catalog of music is supplemented by podcasts and audiobooks which means it’s suitable for almost anyone looking for a high-value subscription service.Our favorite thingSpotify has always had the best features, including excellent social sharing and collaboration add-ons. The yearly Wrapped continues to dictate to other services how they should roundup their users’ listening habits.Why we love itIf you had to tally up the individual costs of the features you get from a Spotify subscription you’d be looking at over $30. For just $12 a month you’re getting a lot. It may not have the high resolution streaming of its competitors, but most people aren’t fussed by the differences. The best value music service is right here.– Ty Pendlebury  Read our full review.
Xbox Game Pass Ultimate
Editors' choice
CNET/Microsoft
See at Amazon
See at HP
Who is it best for?Xbox and PC gamers who move through games fast or are always looking for something new.Our favorite thingGame Pass Ultimate is a gamer’s version of Netflix, and it gives you access to over 500 games including series like Halo and Dead Space, as well as games like Diablo 4. We especially like that, it gives you Day 1 releases at no extra charge.Why we love itOne year of Game Pass Ultimate will cost you $240. That sounds like a lot, but that covers the price of three new AAA games, which can be $70 upon release. So when Doom: The Dark Ages, Gears of War: E-Day and Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 they will likely cost $210 combined, and that doesn’t include access to online multiplayer. Plus, with Microsoft’s acquisition of Activision Blizzard, Microsoft will likely add games from Activision Blizzard’s back catalog to the service. So if you plan on playing a lot of games, you’ll save money with this service in the long run, and who doesn’t like saving money?– Zachary McAuliffe, writer Read our full review.
Apple Arcade
★ Multi-year award winner
Editors' choice
James Martin/CNET
See at Apple Arcade
Who is it best for?Gamers with an iPhone looking for a fun mobile gaming experience, or parents who want to introduce their children to gaming.Our favorite thingApple Arcade’s strength lies in its mobile game catalog and the frequency it adds new games. It offers subscribers over 200 games now without any additional in-game fees, and the service adds new games every month.Why we love itApple Arcade costs $7 a month, and you can share your subscription with up to five other people. That means you and some friends can split the subscription fee and you’ll always have others to game with, or you can play games with your children at no extra charge. So you can play NBA 2K24 Arcade Edition against your friends, or Hello Kitty Island Adventure with your kids. Being able to game on your iPhone is great if you have a commute, and many games can be played on iPad or MacBook once you get home.– Zachary McAuliffe Read our full review.
VPN servicesA virtual private network isn't for everyone, but if you're interested in protecting your privacy online, or opening up streaming options that would be otherwise blocked because of your location (at home or while traveling), a subscription to one is worth considering. Our favorites below include our top overall pick, along with a more affordable option.
ExpressVPN
Editors' choice
73% off with 2yr plan (+4 free months). Now only $3.49/month
Who is it best for?Anyone looking for the smoothest VPN experience for just about any online activity.Our favorite thingIf there’s a VPN that’s best prepared for the future, it’s ExpressVPN. While most VPNs are working on addressing current online privacy challenges, ExpressVPN’s post-quantum protection has got you covered well into the future by raising encryption standards to guard against decryption from quantum computers. Why we love itExpressVPN is our top VPN pick overall and one of the best across many of our VPN best lists for a reason: It’s a really good VPN for pretty much any use case. ExpressVPN is exceptional for unblocking international streaming content, but we also appreciate its unrivaled commitment to privacy and transparency. Its TrustedServer technology sets the bar for how a VPN server network should protect user privacy, and its 18 independent audits to-date go well above and beyond what other VPNs have published. If you want to stream movies and shows from around the world, enhance your online gaming experience, protect your privacy while traveling, evade online censorship or just hide your internet activity from your internet service provider, ExpressVPN is ridiculously easy to use and connects in a snap to a wide selection of 105 different countries.– Attila Tomaschek, writer Read our full review.
Surfshark
Editors' choice
James Martin/CNET
Protect 5 Devices for $2.49 Per Month on 2 Years Plan + 3 Months Free and Includes VPN
See at Surfshark VPN
Who is it best for?Anyone looking for a premium VPN experience at a great price (as long as you get the yearly or two-year plan). Our favorite thingSurfshark’s Nexus Network technology allows the provider to deliver some innovative privacy features you won’t find with most other VPNs. Through the power of the Nexus Network, you’ll be able to double-VPN through any two servers of your choosing with Dynamic Multihop and automatically change up your IP address every few minutes with IP Rotator.Why we love itBesides sporting a pretty cool name, Surfshark is a top-notch VPN with an impressive feature set at a price that’s easy on the wallet. With Surfshark, you’ll get all of the privacy protections you’d get from a premium VPN provider like a kill switch, DNS leak protection, obfuscation and a RAM-only server infrastructure. But you’ll also get access to some really helpful tools that you won’t find elsewhere, like the Nexus Network suite of features and Surfshark’s Alternative ID, which lets you generate a fake alias, complete with a full name, date of birth, home address and an email address that automatically forwards messages to your real email address. Use it to keep your true identity private when registering online accounts. Surfshark is also quite fast, great for streaming international content and allows for unlimited simultaneous connections. Good luck finding another VPN that offers these kinds of premium features for $60 per year.– Attila Tomaschek Read our full review.
Methodology: How we made this listThe CNET Editors' Choice badge represents the strongest recommendation of a product or service evaluated by CNET experts. The award distinguishes the products and services that have made a lasting impression on CNET's editorial team.To earn an Editors' Choice distinction, a product or service must be a top pick in its category, score a minimum benchmark when rated or be selected by a CNET expert based on hands-on testing of the product and its competition. Awarded by our experienced editors, enhanced by lab testing in dedicated facilities and more selective than a best-list inclusion or a positive review, readers can know that Editors' Choice Award recipients are the best of the best.
The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners.
See your brand here? Learn more about licensing a CNET award. Learn more
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.