Federal Europe - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
Toggle History subsection
1.1
19th century
1.2
Early 20th century
1.3
Post World War II
1.4
Early 21st century
2
Proposals for closer union
Toggle Proposals for closer union subsection
2.1
European federalist organisations
2.1.1
Union of European Federalists
2.1.2
European Movement International
2.1.3
European Federalist Party
2.1.4
Stand Up for Europe
2.1.5
Volt Europa
2.2
Politicians
2.2.1
Guy Verhofstadt
2.2.2
Viviane Reding
2.2.3
Matteo Renzi
2.2.4
Martin Schulz
2.2.5
Silvio Berlusconi
2.3
Notable individuals
2.3.1
Freddy Heineken
3
Predictions
Toggle Predictions subsection
3.1
Future superpower
3.2
Skepticisms
3.3
Polls
4
Fiction
5
See also
6
Notes
Toggle Notes subsection
6.1
References
6.2
Bibliography
7
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Federal Europe
35 languages
AfrikaansالعربيةBoarischCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어ՀայերենBahasa IndonesiaItalianoLatviešuLëtzebuergeschMagyarNederlands日本語OccitanPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSimple EnglishSlovenščinaSuomiSvenskaTagalogTürkçeУкраїнська中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Speculative future European federation
This article is about the speculative future scenario of European integration. For similar subjects, see Federalisation of the European Union, European values, and European integration. "United States of Europe" redirects here. For the Italian electoral list, see United States of Europe (electoral list).
European UnionCouncil of EuropeSchengen Area
Schengen Area
Countries with open borders to the Schengen area
Member of the EU committed by treaty to join the Schengen Area in the futureEuropean Economic Area
European Union
Iceland, Norway (without Svalbard) and Liechtenstein
A federal Europe, also referred to as the United States of Europe (USE) or a European federation, is a hypothetical scenario of European integration leading to the formation of a sovereign superstate (similar to the United States), organised as a federation of the member countries of the European Union (EU), as contemplated by political scientists, politicians, geographers, historians, futurologists and fiction writers. At present, while the EU is not officially a federation or even a confederation, most contemporary scholars of federalism view the EU as a federal system,[1] a supranational union, which has a flexible (see right to secession, Article 50 and Brexit) membership and competence delegation.
It is to be differentiated to a fused European State,[2][3] or the concept of a European Republic, equalizing European regions, past the member states, as advocated by Ulrike Guérot.[4]
History[edit]
Main articles: Ideas of European unity before 1948 and History of the European Union
Various versions of the concept have developed over the centuries, many of which are mutually incompatible (inclusion or exclusion of the United Kingdom, secular or religious union, etc.). Such proposals include those from Bohemian King George of Poděbrady in 1464;[5] Duc de Sully of France in the seventeenth century;[6] and the plan of William Penn, the Quaker founder of Pennsylvania, for the establishment of a "European Dyet, Parliament or Estates".[7] George Washington also allegedly voiced support for a "United States of Europe",[8] although the authenticity of this statement has been questioned.[9]
19th century[edit]
Felix Markham notes how during a conversation on St. Helena, Napoleon Bonaparte remarked: "Europe thus divided into nationalities freely formed and free internally, peace between States would have become easier: the United States of Europe would become a possibility".[10] "United States of Europe" was also the name of the concept presented by Wojciech Jastrzębowski in About eternal peace between the nations, published 31 May 1831. The project consisted of 77 articles. The envisioned United States of Europe was to be an international organisation rather than a superstate. Giuseppe Mazzini, an early advocate of a "United States of Europe"
regarded European unification as a logical continuation of the unification of Italy.[11] Mazzini created the Young Europe movement.
The term "United States of Europe" (French: États-Unis d'Europe) was used by Victor Hugo, including during a speech at the International Peace Congress held in Paris in 1849.[12] Hugo favoured the creation of "a supreme, sovereign senate, which will be to Europe what parliament is to England" and said: "A day will come when all nations on our continent will form a European brotherhood ... A day will come when we shall see ... the United States of America and the United States of Europe face to face, reaching out for each other across the seas". During his exile from France, Hugo planted a tree in the grounds of his residence on the Island of Guernsey and was noted in saying that when this tree matured the United States of Europe would have come into being. This tree to this day is still growing in the gardens of Maison de Hauteville, St. Peter Port, Guernsey.
In 1867, Giuseppe Garibaldi and John Stuart Mill joined Victor Hugo at the first congress of the League of Peace and Freedom in Geneva. Here the anarchist Mikhail Bakunin stated: "That in order to achieve the triumph of liberty, justice and peace in the international relations of Europe, and to render civil war impossible among the various peoples who make up the European family, only a single course lies open: to constitute the United States of Europe".[13] The French National Assembly also called for a United States of Europe on 1 March 1871.[citation needed]
Early 20th century[edit]
"Under a capitalist regime, the United States of Europe are either impossible or reactionary."
V. I. Lenin[14]
Before the communist revolution in Russia, Leon Trotsky foresaw a "Federated Republic of Europe — the United States of Europe", created by the proletariat.[15] Following the First World War, some thinkers and visionaries again began to float the idea of a politically unified Europe. A Pan-European movement gained some momentum from the 1920s with the creation of the Paneuropean Union, based on Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi's 1923 manifesto Paneuropa, which presented the idea of a unified European State. This movement, led by Coudenhove-Kalergi and subsequently by Otto von Habsburg, is the oldest European unification movement.[16][17][18] In 1923, the Austrian Count Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi founded the Pan-Europa Movement and hosted the First Paneuropean Congress, held in Vienna in 1926.[19] The aim was for a Europe based on the principles of liberalism, Christianity and social responsibility.[20]
Coin created to promote European Federation in 1928
His ideas influenced Aristide Briand, French Prime Minister, who gave on 8 September 1929 a speech before the Assembly of the League of Nations in which he proposed the idea of a federation of European nations based on solidarity and in the pursuit of economic prosperity and political and social co-operation. At the League's request, Briand presented in 1930 his "Memorandum on the Organization of a Regime of European Federal Union" for the Government of France.[21] In the early 1930s, French politician Édouard Herriot and British civil servant Arthur Salter both penned books titled The United States of Europe.[22][23]
After the First World War, Winston Churchill had seen continental Europe as a source of threats and sought to avoid the United Kingdom's involvement in European conflicts. On 15 February 1930, Churchill commented in the American journal The Saturday Evening Post that a "European Union" was possible between continental states, but without the United Kingdom's involvement: We see nothing but good and hope in a richer, freer, more contented European commonality. But we have our own dream and our own task. We are with Europe, but not of it. We are linked but not compromised. We are interested and associated but not absorbed.[24]
During the 1930s, Churchill was influenced by and became an advocate of the ideas of Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi and his Paneuropean Union,[citation needed] though Churchill did not advocate the United Kingdom's membership of such a union. (Churchill revisited the idea in 1946).
During the World War II victories of Nazi Germany in 1940, Wilhelm II stated that "the hand of God is creating a new world & working miracles. ... We are becoming the United States of Europe under German leadership, a united European Continent".[25]
In 1941, the Italian anti-fascists Altiero Spinelli and Ernesto Rossi finished writing the Ventotene Manifesto, encouraging a federation of European states.[26]
The European Confederation (German: Europäischer Staatenbund) was a proposed political institution of European unity, which was to be part of a wider restructuring (Neuordnung). Proposed by German Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop in March 1943, the concept was rejected by Führer Adolf Hitler.[27] Also in 1943 the Italian Fascists proposed the creation of a 'European Community' free of British 'intrigues' at their Congress of Verona in their newly declared Salo Republic (Mussolini having been rescued from captivity).
Post World War II[edit]
Churchill used the term "United States of Europe" in a speech delivered on 19 September 1946 at the University of Zurich, Switzerland.[28] In this speech given after the end of the Second World War, Churchill concluded: We must build a kind of United States of Europe. In this way only will hundreds of millions of toilers be able to regain the simple joys and hopes which make life worth living.[29]
While Churchill advocated a united Europe, he saw Britain and its Commonwealth, along with the United States of America, and Soviet Russia as "the friends and sponsors of the new Europe", separate to a United States of Europe led by France and Germany.[29]
As early as 21 October 1942, in a minute to his Foreign Secretary, Winston Churchill had written, "I look forward to a United States of Europe in which the barriers between the nations will be greatly minimised and unrestricted travel will be possible".[30]
Churchill's was a more cautious approach ("the unionist position") to European integration than was the continental approach that was known as "the federalist position".[31] The Federalists advocated full integration with a constitution, while the Unionist United Europe Movement advocated a consultative body; the Federalists prevailed at the Congress of Europe.[31] The primary accomplishment of the Congress of Europe was the European Court of Human Rights, which predates the European Union.[32]
In the 1947 essay "Toward European Unity", English writer George Orwell called for the establishment of a Federal Europe under a system of democratic socialism, which he believed could act as a geopolitical counterweight to both the capitalist United States and the communist Soviet Union.[33]
The Union Movement was a British party founded by Oswald Mosley after the dissolution of his British Union of Fascists.
Mosley first presented his idea of "Europe a Nation" in his book The Alternative in 1947. He argued that the traditional vision of nationalism that had been followed by the various shades of pre-war fascism had been too narrow in scope and that the post-war era required a new paradigm in which Europe would come together as a single state. In October 1948 when Mosley called for elections to a European Assembly as the first step towards his vision.[34] Nation Europa was a German magazine inspired by Mosley's ideas, founded in 1951 by former SS commander Arthur Ehrhardt and Herbert Boehme with the support of
Carl-Ehrenfried Carlberg.[35] Mosley would establish the National Party of Europe and his journal called The European.
By the 1950s and 1960s, Europe saw the emergence of two different projects, the European Free Trade Association and the much more political European Economic Community.
Early 21st century[edit]
Individuals such as the former German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer have said (in 2000) that he believes that in the end, the EU must become a single federation, with its political leader chosen by direct elections among all of its citizens.[36] However, claims that the then-proposed Treaty of Nice aimed to create a "European superstate" were rejected by former United Kingdom European Commissioner Chris Patten and by many member-state governments.[36] (As of 2023[update], the post "President of the European Union" does not exist, nor are there any plans that it should do so.)
Proposals for closer union[edit]
Main article: European integration
See also: Potential enlargement of the European Union
Countries that could join the European Union   Current members   Candidates   Applicants   Membership possible   Countries located (at least partially) in Europe   Application rejected by the European Council
The member states of the European Union have many common policies within the EU and on behalf of the EU that are sometimes suggestive of a single state. It has a common policy-setting body, the European Council (of national Heads of Government) that defines the overall political direction and priorities of the European Union. It has a common executive (the European Commission) to oversee execution of policies and to verify compliance with Treaty obligations, including a single High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy. It has a common European Security and Defence Policy, a single internal market for goods and services, freedom of movement of persons for work, a European citizenship granting European rights, a supreme court (Court of Justice of the European Union – but only in matters of European Union law or areas affected by it), a common legislature in the form of the directly elected European Parliament and the Council of the EU (of national ministers, one Council for each policy area) representing Member States, and numerous agencies and other bodies to implement European law and coordinate policies (such as EIROforum in research, with members like CERN).[citation needed]
European Law also takes precedence over national law in all areas granted to it by member states (but not otherwise), ranging from energy and environmental policy to consumer rights and criminal justice. There are few domestic policies that are not impacted in some way by European Law agreed by the legislative bodies. The euro is often referred to as the "single European currency", which has been officially adopted by twenty EU countries while two other member countries of the European Union have linked their currencies to the euro in ERM II. Then non-EU member states of Andorra, Monaco, San Marino, and Vatican City concluded monetary agreements with the EU on the usage of the euro. The non-EU member states of Kosovo and Montenegro adopted the euro unilaterally.[citation needed]
Schengen AreaEurozone
Several pan-European institutions exist separate from the EU. The European Space Agency counts almost all EU member states in its membership, but it is independent of the EU and its membership includes nations that are not EU members, notably Switzerland, Norway and as a result of Brexit, the United Kingdom. The European Court of Human Rights (not to be confused with the European Court of Justice) is also independent of the EU. It is an element of the Council of Europe, which like ESA counts EU members and non-members alike in its membership. The European Political Community is an intergovernmental organization which was founded in 2022 and calls for greater cooperation among European nations, with 47 European states participating.
At present, the European Union is a free association of sovereign states (a de facto, but not de jure, confederation) designed to further their shared aims.[citation needed] Other than the vague aim of "ever closer union" in the Solemn Declaration on European Union, the EU (meaning its member governments) has no current policy to form a federal union. However, in the past Jean Monnet, a person associated with the EU and its predecessor the European Economic Community, did make such proposals. A wide range of other terms are in use to describe the possible future political structure of Europe as a whole and/or the EU. Some of them, such as "United Europe", are used often and in such varied contexts, but they have no definite constitutional status.
In the United States of America, the concept enters serious discussions of whether a unified Europe is feasible and what impact increased European unity would have on the United States of America's relative political and economic power. Glyn Morgan, a Harvard University associate professor of government and social studies, uses it unapologetically in the title of his book The Idea of a European Superstate: Public Justification and European Integration. While Morgan's text focuses on the security implications of a unified Europe, a number of other recent texts focus on the economic implications of such an entity. Important recent texts here include T. R. Reid's The United States of Europe and Jeremy Rifkin's The European Dream. Neither the National Review nor the Chronicle of Higher Education doubt the appropriateness of the term in their reviews.[37][38]
European federalist organisations[edit]
Various federalist organisations have been created over time supporting the idea of a federal Europe. These include the Union of European Federalists, the European Movement International, the (former) European Federalist Party, Stand Up For Europe and Volt Europa.[citation needed]
Union of European Federalists[edit]
The Union of European Federalists (UEF) is a European non-governmental organisation campaigning for a Federal Europe. It consists of 20 constituent organisations and it has been active at the European, national and local levels for more than 50 years. A young branch called the Young European Federalists also exists in 30 countries of Europe.[citation needed]
European Movement International[edit]
The European Movement International is a lobbying association that coordinates the efforts of associations and national councils with the goal of promoting European integration, and disseminating information about it.[citation needed]
European Federalist Party[edit]
The European Federalist Party was a pro-European, pan-European and federalist political party from 2011 to 2016 which advocated further integration of the European Union.
Stand Up for Europe[edit]
As the successor movement of the European Federalist Party, Stand Up For Europe[39] is a pan-European NGO that advocates the foundation of a European Federation. Contrary to movements like the UEF or the former EFP, Stand Up for Europe does not command any national levels anymore, but only consists of regional city teams and the European level.
Volt Europa[edit]
Volt Europa describes itself a pan-European, progressive movement that stands for a new and inclusive way of doing politics and that wants to bring change for European citizens.[40][better source needed] The party claims that a new pan-European approach is needed to overcome current and future challenges, such as – among others – climate change, economic inequality, migration, international conflict, terrorism, and the impact of the technological revolution on jobs. Volt says that national parties are powerless in front of these challenges, because they go beyond national borders and need to be tackled by Europeans, as one people. As a transnational party, it believes it can help the European people unite, create a shared vision and understanding, exchange good practices across the continent, and come up with working policies. Volt Europa is the first European federalist movement to have elected members in two national parliaments, namely in the Netherlands and Bulgaria, as well as having elected five MEPs from Germany and the Netherlands.
Politicians[edit]
Guy Verhofstadt[edit]
Following the negative referendums about the European Constitution in France and the Netherlands, the former Belgian prime minister Guy Verhofstadt released in November 2005 his book, written in Dutch, Verenigde Staten van Europa ("United States of Europe") in which he claims – based on the results of a Eurobarometer questionnaire – that the average European citizen wants more Europe. He thinks a federal Europe should be created between those states that wish to have a federal Europe (as a form of enhanced cooperation). In other words, a core federal Europe would exist within the current EU. He also states that these core states should federalise the following five policy areas: a European social-economic policy, technology cooperation, a common justice and security policy, a common diplomacy and a European army. Following the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon (December 2009) by all member states of the EU, the outline of a common diplomatic service, known as the External Action Service of the European Union (EEAS), was set in place. On 20 February 2009, the European Parliament also voted in favour of the creation of Synchronised Armed Forces Europe (SAFE) as a first step towards a forming a true European military force.[41]
Verhofstadt's book was awarded the first Europe Book Prize, which is organised by the association Esprit d'Europe and supported by former president of the European Commission Jacques Delors. The prize money was €20,000. The prize was declared at the European Parliament in Brussels on 5 December 2007. Swedish crime fiction writer Henning Mankell was the president of the jury of European journalists for choosing the first recipient.[citation needed]
While receiving the reward, Verhofstadt said: "When I wrote this book, I in fact meant it as a provocation against all those who didn't want the European Constitution. Fortunately, in the end a solution was found with the treaty, that was approved".[42]
Viviane Reding[edit]
In 2012, Viviane Reding, the Luxembourgish Vice-president of the European Commission called in a speech in Passau Germany and in a series of articles and interviews for the establishment of the United States of Europe as a way to strengthen the unity of Europe.[43]
Matteo Renzi[edit]
The Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said in 2014 that under his leadership Italy would use its six-month-long presidency of the European Union to push for the establishment of a United States of Europe.[44]
In 2024, Matteo Renzi, serving as the leader of Italia Viva, and Emma Bonino, head of the More Europe party, formed an electoral list for the 2024 European Parliament election under the name "United States of Europe". Renzi described the initiative as an effort to "bring to Brussels several MEPs who are not sovereignists or populists—people who believe in the United States of Europe. People who do politics."[45] Alongside Italia Viva and More Europe, the list includes the Italian Socialist Party, the Italian Radicals, the European Liberal Democrats and L'Italia c'è.[46]
Martin Schulz[edit]
In December 2017, Martin Schulz, who was then the new leader of the German Social Democratic Party, called for a new constitutional treaty for a "United States of Europe".[47]
He proposed that this constitution should be written by "a convention that includes civil society and the people" and that any state that declined to accept this proposed constitution should have to leave the bloc.[47] The Guardian's view was that his proposal was "likely to be met with some resistance from Angela Merkel and other EU leaders".[47] On that day he also stated that he would like to see a "United States of Europe" by 2025.[48]
Silvio Berlusconi[edit]
The former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi repeatedly expressed support for deeper European integration under the banner of a “United States of Europe.”[49][50][51][52] In a November 2019 address to the European People's Party in Zagreb, he argued that “unificare le Forze armate di tutti gli Stati” (“unifying the armed forces of all Member States”) was imperative for the EU to matter on the world stage, adding that it would also serve as a deterrent to large-scale migration and maintain strategic parity with global powers such as the United States, Russia, and China.[49]
On multiple occasions, he further urged amending the EU treaties to enable majority decision-making, contending that the unanimity rule often hindered rapid and decisive EU-level action.[50][51][52]
Berlusconi’s stance on the euro and European integration was more ambivalent in a 2014 interview with the BBC Newsnight. Warning that “the economic situation will force us and other European countries to abandon the euro and go back to their national currencies” without “radical changes,” he said the EU was “far from ever becoming a United States of Europe” due to what he called “very imbalanced economic” and “very imbalanced tax” policies, as well as the absence of a coherent foreign policy.[53]
Notable individuals[edit]
Freddy Heineken[edit]
In 1992, Dutch businessman Freddy Heineken, after consulting with historians of the University of Leiden, Henk Wesseling and Willem van den Doel published a brochure "United States of Europe, Eurotopia?". In his work he put forward the idea of creating the United States of Europe as a confederation of 75 states that would be formed according to an ethnic and linguistic principle with a population of 5 to 10 million people.[54]
Predictions[edit]
De jure status of possible future enlargement of the European Union:  Current member states  Former member state which has withdrawn from the EU: United Kingdom  Candidates: Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Georgia, North Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Serbia, Turkey and Ukraine[55]  Potential candidates that have applied for membership: Kosovo* (status disputed).[55]  States that have withdrawn their applications: Iceland, Norway, Switzerland
Future superpower[edit]
Main article: Potential superpowers
Some people, such as T. R. Reid, Andrew Reding and Mark Leonard, have argued that the power of a hypothetical United States of Europe could potentially rival that of the United States of America in the twenty-first century. Leonard cites several factors: Europe's large population, the scale of the combined Europe's economy, Europe's low inflation rates, Europe's central geographic location in the world's landmasses, and certain European countries' relatively highly developed social organisation and quality of life (when measured in terms such as hours worked per week and income distribution).[56] Some experts[who?] claim that Europe has developed a sphere of influence called the "Eurosphere".
Assumptions about a potential full or near superpower status of a perceived Supra-national Euro state are hypothetical in nature and on the other hand contrary notions and arguments exist across a wide spectrum among analysts, experts and pundits.[57][58][59][60]
Skepticisms[edit]
Some people think that the European Union is unlikely to evolve into a unified federal superstate, due to political opposition of some members. Norwegian foreign policy scholar and commentator Asle Toje has argued that the power and reach of the European Union more closely resembles a small power.[61] In his book The EU As a Small Power, he argues that the EU is a response to and function of Europe's unique historical experience in that the EU contains the remnants of not one but five past European orders. Although the 1990s and early 2000s have shown that there is policy space for greater EU engagement in European security, the EU has been unable to meet these expectations.[62]
Asle Toje expresses particular concerns over the EU's security and defence dimension Common Security and Defence Policy, where attempts at pooling resources and forming a political consensus have failed to generate the results expected. These trends, combined with shifts in global power patterns, are seen to have been accompanied by a shift in EU strategic thinking whereby great power ambitions have been scaled down and replaced by a tendency towards hedging vis-à-vis the great powers. The author uses the case of the EUFOR intervention in Darfur and Chad to illustrate that the EU's effectiveness is hampered by a consensus–expectations gap, owing primarily to the lack of an effective decision-making mechanism. In his view, the sum of these developments is that the EU – in the current situation – will not be a great power and is taking the place of a small power in the emerging multi-polar international order.[citation needed]
Polls[edit]
Attitude toward further development of the EU into a federation of nation states according to the Eurobarometer Poll of spring 2014  EU members with more people in favour of a federation than against it  EU members (including at the time the UK) and Greenland with more people against a federation than in favour of it
According to Eurobarometer (2013), 69% of citizens of the EU were in favour of direct elections of the president of the European Commission and 46%
support the creation of a united EU army.[63]
Two thirds of respondents think that the EU (instead of a national government alone) should make decisions on foreign policy, and more than half of respondents think that the EU should also make decisions on defense.[64]
44% of respondents support the future development of the European Union as a federation of nation states, 35% are opposed. The Nordic countries were the most negative towards a united Europe in this study, as 73% of the Nordics opposed the idea.[65] A large majority of the people for whom the EU conjures up a positive image support the further development of the EU into a federation of nation states (56% versus 27%).[65]
Fiction[edit]
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.Find sources: "Federal Europe" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR (October 2018) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
In The Old Earth, the third volume (1911) of Jerzy Żuławski's The Lunar Trilogy, the USE is a communist state.
In the fictional universe of Eric Flint's best selling alternate history 1632 series, a United States of Europe is formed out of the Confederation of Principalities of Europe, which was composed of several German political units of the 1630s.[66]
Science fiction has made particular use of the idea: Incompetence, a dystopian novel by Red Dwarf creator Rob Grant, is a murder mystery political thriller set in a federated Europe of the near future, where stupidity is a constitutionally protected right. References to a European Alliance or European Hegemony have also existed in episodes of Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987–1994). In the Spy High series of books for young adults, written by A. J. Butcher and set around the 2060s, a united Europe exists in the form of "Europa", and Andrew Roberts's 1995 book The Aachen Memorandum details a United States of Europe formed from a fraudulent referendum entitled the Aachen Referendum.[67]
Since the 2000s a number of computer strategy games set in the future have presented a unified European faction alongside other established military powers such as the United States and Russia. These include Euro Force (a 2006 expansion pack to Battlefield 2) and Battlefield 2142 (also released in 2006, with a 2007 expansion pack). In Battlefield 2142 a united Europe is shown as one of the two great superpowers on Earth, the other being Asia, despite being mostly frozen in a new ice age. The disaster theme continues with Tom Clancy's EndWar (2009), in which a nuclear war between Iran and Saudi Arabia, destroying the Middle Eastern oil supply, prompts the EU to integrate further as the "European Federation" in 2018. One game not to make bold claims of full integration is Shattered Union (2005), set in a future civil war in the United States, with the EU portrayed as a peacekeeping force. The video game series Wipeout instead makes a clear federal reference without a military element: one of the core teams that has appeared in every game is FEISAR. This acronym stands for Federal European Industrial Science and Research. In the video game series Mass Effect set in the 22nd century, the European Union is a sovereign state.
In the backstory of the Fallout series, several European nations joined after the end of the Second World War, becoming known as the European Commonwealth. Heavily dependent on oil imports from the Middle East, the Commonwealth began a military invasion of the region in April 2052 once oil supplies began to run dry. This marked the beginning of the Resource Wars. After the oil dried up completely in 2060 and both sides were left in ruins, the Commonwealth collapsed into civil war as member states fought over whatever resources remained. It is not specified whether the European Commonwealth is a single federated nation or just an economic bloc similar to the EU.
In the anime series Code Geass, the EU (short for Euro Universe or Europia United), also known as the United Republic of Europia, is one of the three superpowers that dominate the Earth militarily, politically, culturally and economically. The political worldbuilding of the series partially resembles that of George Orwell's Nineteen-Eighty-Four, with three superstates in roughly the same geographic positions controlling the world. Gundam 00 anime series featured the Advanced European Union (AEU) as one of the major power blocs while in Gundam SEED the Eurasian Union includes both European Union and post-Soviet states.
See also[edit]
Europe portalEuropean Union portal
American Committee on United Europe – Public/private US organization promoting European federalism
Brand EU – Private pro-EU organization
Captain Euro – Comics character
Centre Virtuel de la Connaissance sur l'Europe – Research organisation maintaining a digital library on European integration
Constituent state – Member of a [con]federation
Decentralization – Organizational theory
Devolution – Granting of some competences of central government to local government
Europe a Nation – Ideology developed by Oswald Mosley
European Civil War – Concept describing 19th and 20th century conflicts in Europe as one continuous civil war
Eurocentrism – Worldview centred on or biased towards Western civilization
Euroscepticism – Body of criticism of the European Union
Fourth Reich – Hypothetical successor of Nazi Germany
Institutions of the European Union – Decision-making bodies of the European Union
Multi-speed Europe – Political idea
New England Confederation – 1643–1686 colonial alliance
Pan-European identity – Personal identification with Europe
Pan-European nationalism – Far-right ultra-nationalism
Paneuropean Union – Oldest European unification movement
Pan-nationalism – Nationalism beyond national boundaries
Potential Superpower (European Union) – Entity speculated to be or become a superpowerPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Pro-Europeanism – Favouring European integration
Subsidiarity (European Union) – Principle of governance of the European Union
United States of Africa – Political concept similar to the hypothesised United States of Europe
United States of Latin Africa – Proposed union of Romance-language-speaking Central African countries
World government – Notion of a single common political authority for all of humanity
Notes[edit]
References[edit]
^ Kelemen, R Daniel (September 2005). "Built to Last? The durability of EU federalism" (PDF). In Meunier, Sophie; McNamara, Kate (eds.). Making History: State of the European Union. Vol. 8. (University of Oxford). Oxford University Press. p. 52. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 January 2013.
^ Jones, Eric (4 August 2003). The European Miracle: Environments, Economies and Geopolitics in the History of Europe and Asia. Cambridge University Press. p. 107. ISBN 978-0-521-52783-5.
^ Phillips, D.; Ertl, Hubert (30 June 2003). Implementing European Union Education and Training Policy: A Comparative Study of Issues in Four Member States. Springer. p. 44. ISBN 978-1-4020-1292-1.
^ ""Ploughing up the European course"". deutschland.de. 28 August 2018. Retrieved 12 May 2025.
^ Colette Beaune: Chrétienté et Europe: le projet de Georges de Podiebrad au xve siècle, in: Chrétiens et sociétés, vol. 1 | 1994,
^ Bogumil Terminski, "The Evolution of The Concept of Perpetual Peace in The History of Political-Legal Thought," Perspectivas Internacionales, 2010, p286
^ William Penn, the Englishman who invented the European Parliament by Daniele Archibugi in openDemocracy. Access 9 February 2019
^ J. William Fulbright (May 1948), "A United States of Europe?", The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, 257 (257, Peace Settlements of World War II), Sage Publications, Inc. in association with the American Academy of Political and Social Science: 151–156, doi:10.1177/000271624825700116, JSTOR 1026642, S2CID 145490100
^ Disputed "Europe" on Wikiquote
^ Felix Markham, Napoleon (New York: Penguin Books USA Inc., 1966), 257 as quoted in Matthew Zarzeczny, Napoleon's European Union: The Grand Empire of the United States of Europe (Kent State University Master's thesis), 2.
^ Mazzini, Giuseppe (2009). "From a Revolutionary Alliance to the United States of Europe". In Steffano Reccia; Nadia Urbinati (eds.). A Cosmopolitanism of Nations. Princeton University Press. pp. 131–135. ISBN 978-1-4008-3131-9.
^ "Congrès de la Paix 1849 – Wikisource". fr.wikisource.org.
^ Bakunin, Mikhail Aleksandrovich; Avrich, Paul; Dolgoff, Sam (1972). Bakunin on Anarchy: Selected Works by the Activist-founder of World Anarchism (1st Vintage Books ed.). New York: Vintage Books. pp. 102–104. ISBN 0-394-71783-X.
^ Politicising the Genoa tragedy is just the latest Europhobic ruse Natalie Nougayrède, The Guardian, 17 Aug 2018
^ John Reed, "Ten Days That Shook The World", Boni & Liveright, New York, (March 1919) ch. 3.
^ Otto von Habsburg: Die Paneuropäische Idee. Eine Vision wird Wirklichkeit. Amalthea Verlag, Wien-München 1999, ISBN 3-85002-424-5
^ Vanessa Conze: Das Europa der Deutschen; Ideen von Europa in Deutschland zwischen Reichstradition und Westorientierung (1920–1970); Oldenbourg Wissenschaftsverlag; 2005; ISBN 978-3-486-57757-0.
^ Ben Rosamond, Theories of European Integration, Palgrave Macmillan, 2000, pp. 21–22.
^ "Jews Participate in Pan-europe Congress Sessions in Vienna". Jewish Telegraphic Agency. Vienna. 5 October 1926. Archived from the original on 9 April 2017. Retrieved 12 April 2017.
^ "Internationale Paneuropa Union – Union Paneuropeénne Internationale – International Paneuropean Union". Archived from the original on 15 February 2013. Retrieved 15 February 2013.
^ D. Weigall and P. Stirk, editors, The Origins and Development of the European Community, Leicester: Leicester University Press, 1992, pp. 11–15.
^ Herriot, Édouard (1930). The United States of Europe. London: Allen and Unwin. OCLC 239375.
^ Salter, Arthur (1933). The United States of Europe. New York: The Viking Press. OCLC 216511725.
^ Ponting, Clive (1996). "A revision". In Biddeleux, Robert; Taylor, Richard (eds.). European Integration and Disintegration: east and west. Routledge. pp. 36–38. ISBN 978-1-134-77522-4.
^ Jonathan Petropoulos, Royals and the Reich, Oxford University Press (2006) p. 170
^ Bertrand Vayssière,
"Le Manifeste de Ventotene (1941): Acte de Naissance du Federalisme Europeen," Guerres Mondiales et Conflits Contemporains (Jan 2005), Vol. 55 Issue 217
^ Lipgens, Walter; Loth, Wilfried (1985). Documents on the History of European Integration: Continental plans for European union, 1939–1945 (including 250 documents in their original languages on 6 microfiches). Walter de Gruyter. ISBN 978-3-11-009724-5.
^ "Speech of Sir Winston Churchill". PACE website. Zürich, Switzerland: Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 19 September 1946. Archived from the original on 5 October 2013. Retrieved 18 November 2013.
^ a b Churchill, Winston (19 September 1946). Speech to the Academic Youth (Speech). Zürich, Switzerland. Retrieved 27 June 2019.
^ Churchill, Winston S. (1950). The Hinge of Fate. Boston: Houghton Mifflin. p. 562. ISBN 978-0-395-41058-5. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
^ a b Dinan 2005, pp. 14–15.
^ Dinan 2005, p. 15.
^ Cole, Matthew B. (2023). "The Desperate Radicalism of Orwell's 1984: Power, Socialism, and Utopia in Dystopian Times". Political Research Quarterly. 76 (1): 270–274. doi:10.1177/10659129221083286. ISSN 1065-9129.
^ Harris, Geoffrey, The Dark Side of Europe: The Extreme Right Today, Edinburgh University Press, 1994, p. 31
^ Philip Rees, Biographical Dictionary of the Extreme Right Since 1890, p. 54
^ a b Horsley, William (7 December 2000). "Fears of a European superstate". BBC News. Retrieved 29 January 2016.
^ "Carlos Ramos-Mrosovsky on United States of Europe on National Review Online". National Review. Archived from the original on 29 October 2008. Retrieved 2 October 2009.
^ "Making the Case for a United States of Europe – Research – The Chronicle of Higher Education".
^ "Website of Stand Up for Europe". Stand Up for Europe. Retrieved 2 February 2018.
^ "About us". Volt. Retrieved 13 June 2018.
^ Bruno Waterfield in Brussels (18 February 2009). "Blueprint for EU army to be agreed". Telegraph.co.uk. Archived from the original on 12 January 2022. Retrieved 30 December 2014.
^ "International news – euronews, latest international news". Archived from the original on 6 February 2012. Retrieved 30 December 2014.
^ "Press corner". European Commission – European Commission.
^ "Italy to push for 'United States of Europe' when it holds the EU presidency". Telegraph.co.uk. 22 June 2014. Archived from the original on 12 January 2022. Retrieved 30 December 2014.
^ Pascale, Federica (28 March 2024). "EU elections: Italian centre-left rallies behind 'United States of Europe' bid". Euractiv. Euractiv.it. Archived from the original on 18 April 2024. Retrieved 19 April 2024.
^ "Europee dell'8 e 9 giugno, "Stati Uniti D'Europa" presenta i capilista" [European elections on 8 and 9 June, 'United States of Europe' presents the list of candidates]. Rai News 24 (in Italian). 22 April 2024. Archived from the original on 22 April 2024. Retrieved 22 April 2024.
^ a b c Martin Schulz wants 'United States of Europe' within five years
– The Guardian, 7 December 2017
^ SPD's Martin Schulz wants United States of Europe by 2025
– Politico, 7 December 2017
^ a b Berlusconi, Silvio (23 November 2019). "Berlusconi: "Un esercito europeo per arginare l'immigrazione"" [Berlusconi: “A European army to curb immigration”]. Il Giornale (in Italian). Archived from the original on 7 April 2025. Retrieved 7 April 2025.
^ a b Berlusconi, Silvio (5 September 2021). "Il sogno degli Stati Uniti Ue difesi da un esercito comune" [The dream of the United States of the EU defended by a common army]. Il Giornale (in Italian). Archived from the original on 7 April 2025. Retrieved 7 April 2025.
^ a b Berlusconi, Silvio (9 May 2022). "Berlusconi: "Cambiare i trattati per fare gli Stati uniti d'Europa"" [Berlusconi: "Changing the treaties to make the United States of Europe"]. Il Giornale (in Italian). Archived from the original on 7 April 2025. Retrieved 7 April 2025.
^ a b Berlusconi, Silvio (9 May 2022). "Silvio Berlusconi's post". Facebook (in Italian). Archived from the original on 7 April 2025. Retrieved 7 April 2025.
^ Tooth, Martin (20 May 2014). "Silvio Berlusconi: Angela Merkel and me". Newsnight. Archived from the original on 25 November 2024. Retrieved 7 April 2025 – via BBC.
^ Keating, Joshua (1992). "Tuesday Map: Heineken's "Eurotopia"". Foreign Policy. Retrieved 26 May 2009.
^ a b "Enlargement – Check current status". European Commission. Retrieved 27 June 2014.
^ Europe: the new superpower by Mark Leonard, Irish Times, Accessed 13 March 2014
^ Webber, Douglas (6 February 2015). "Why Europe Must Be Classed As A Declining Power". Social Europe.
^ Fidler, Stephen (19 January 2020). "What's Behind the EU's Decline". Wall Street Journal – via www.wsj.com.
^ Bromund, Ted R. "Europe Paves the Way for Its Decline". The Heritage Foundation. Archived from the original on 6 June 2019.
^ "Why Europe will never be a superpower". The Independent. 22 September 2011.
^ "The European Union as a Small Power". Retrieved 30 December 2014.
^ Europe heads for Japanese irrelevance Financial Times
^ "European Commission – PRESS RELEASES – Press release – Making the European elections more democratic and boosting participation – Ground is prepared, say two Commission reports". Europa.eu. Retrieved 24 January 2016.
^ Peters, Dirk (June 2011). "A Divided Union: Public Opinion and the EU's Common Foreign, Security and Defense Policy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 30 December 2019. Retrieved 19 February 2015.
^ a b "Standard Eurobarometer 79 Spring 2013".
^ 1632 (trade paperback (July 2003) ed.). 1 November 2002. p. 655. President of the United States, Prime Minister of the United States of Europe
^ Roberts, Andrew (1995). The Aachen Memorandum. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson. ISBN 978-0-297-81619-5
Bibliography[edit]
Dinan, Desmond (2005). Ever Closer Union: an introduction to European integration (3rd ed.). Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-333-96171-1. Later editions available.
External links[edit]
Political speeches by Victor Hugo: My Revenge is Fraternity!, in which he used the term United States of Europe.
Towards a United States of Europe by Jürgen Habermas, at SignAndSight.com
vtePan-European nationalismMajorproponents
Alain de Benoist
René Binet
Per Engdahl
Guillaume Faye
Norman Lowell
Jean Mabire
Oswald Mosley
Karl-Heinz Priester
Robert Steuckers
Jean-François Thiriart
Dominique Venner
Francis Parker Yockey
Organisations
Europe-Action
European Liberation Front
European Nation State
European Rally for Liberty
European Social Movement
GRECE
Imperium Europa
Jeune Europe
Nation Europe
National Party of Europe
New European Order
Parti Communautaire Européen
Parti Communautaire National-Européen
Related topics
Europe a Nation
The European
European New Right
Federal Europe
Identitarian movement
Pan-European identity
vtePan-nationalist conceptsIdeas
Atlanticism
Afghan-Pakistani unionism
Austro-Slavism
Berberism
Bulgarian-Romanian unionism
Canada-USA unionism
Centralamericanism
Czechoslovakism
Dutch-Indonesian unionism
Enosis
Estonian-Finnish unionism
Eurasianism
Fertile Crescent unionism
Gaucho traditionalism [pt]
Greek-Yugoslavian unionism
Hungarian-Romanian unionism
Gran Colombia unionism
Indian-Pakistani Unionism
Israeli-Palestinian unionism
Latinoamericanism [es]
Hellenoturkism
Hispanoamericanism [es]
League of East European States
Miatsum
Neo-Ottomanism
One China
Romanian-Moldovan unionism
Pan-Africanism
Union of African States
Mali Federation
Sahel-Benin Union
Pan-Americanism
Pan-Andinism [es]
Ecuadorian-Peruvian-Bolivian unionism
Peruvian-Bolivian unionism [es]
Pan-Arabism
Hashemite unionism
United Arab States
United Arab Republic
Federation of Arab Republics
Libyan-Syrian Union
Arab Islamic Republic
Jordania-Palestine unionism
Union of Arab Republics (1972)
Iraq-Kuwait unionism
Pan-Asianism
Pan-Caribbean
Pan-Caucasianism
Pan-Celticism
Pan-Europeanism
European unionism
Pan-European nationalism
Pan-Finnicism
Pan-Ugrism
Pan-Germanism
Panhispanism
Pan-Huiism
Pan-Iberism
Pan-Indianism
Pan-Iranism
Pan-Islamism
Pan-Latinism
Mediterraneanism
Pan-Mongolism
Pan-Oceanianism
Polish-Czechoslovak unionism
Polish-Lithuanian-Belarusian-Ukrainian unionism
Polish-Lithuanian-Ruthenian unionism
Reintegrationism
Saint Martin unionism
Scandinavism
Serbian–Montenegrin unionism
Pan-Slavism
Pan-Tatarism [ru; tt]
Pan-Turkism
Rattachism
Rhodesia-Nyasaland unionism
Soviet reunificationism
Switzerland expansion
Turanism
Hungarian Turanism
Yugoslavism
Territorialconcepts
Abya Yala
African federation
Anglosphere
Anglo-American unificationism
Antillean Confederation
Arab Union
Arab world
Assyria
Balkan Federation
Baltoscandia
Basque Country
Benelux unification
British unionism
Imperial Federation
Cascadia movement
Catalan Countries
Celtic union
Cossackia
Danubian Confederation [de]
East African Federation
Eritrean national identity nationalism
Ethiopian national identity nationalism
Federalisation of the European Union
Caribbean Antilles
West Indies Federation
Franco-British Union
Galicia irredenta
Gran Colombia
Greater Albania
Unification of Albania and Kosovo
Greater Argentina
Greater Belarus
Greater Bosnia
Greater Bulgaria
Greater Cambodia
Greater China
Greater Croatia
Greater Finland
Greater Hungary
Greater India
Greater Indonesia
Greater Iran
Greater Iraq
Greater Israel
Greater Italy
Greater Mauritania
Greater Mexico
Greater Moldova
Greater Morocco
Greater Nepal
Greater Netherlands
Greater Norway
Greater Palestine
Greater Poland
Greater Portugal [pt]
Greater Romania
Greater Russia
Greater Samoa
Greater Serbia
Greater Somalia
Greater Spain
Greater Syria
Greater Tamil Nadu
Great Timor
Greater Ukraine
Greater Vietnam
Greater Yemen
Greater Yugoslavia
Hispanidad
Indosphere
Intermarium
United States of Poland
North American Union
Latin Africa
Lusosphere
Malay world
Maphilindo
Megali Idea (Greece)
Misak-ı Millî (Turkey)
Kurdistan
Occitania
Padanian nationalism
Pashtunistan
Patria Grande
Polynesian confederation
Russian world
Sahel Confederation
Senegambia Confederation
Sinosphere
Tamazgha
Triune Russia
Union State
United Armenia
United Ireland
United Macedonia
Upper Peru
Whole Azerbaijan
Turan
Zambesia
Pan-ethnicgroups
Latinos, Hispanic peoples
Habesha peoples
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Federal_Europe&oldid=1312166937"
Categories: Council of EuropeEurofederalismFictional governmentsInternationalismPolitics of the European UnionProposed political unionsHidden categories: CS1 errors: ISBN dateCS1 Italian-language sources (it)CS1: unfit URLArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse British English from March 2013All Wikipedia articles written in British EnglishUse dmy dates from May 2024Articles containing French-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2017Articles with unsourced statements from January 2018Articles containing German-language textArticles containing potentially dated statements from 2023All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2024Articles with unsourced statements from December 2014Articles with unsourced statements from October 2018All articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from November 2021All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from January 2016Articles needing additional references from October 2018All articles needing additional referencesPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets via Module:Annotated link
This page was last edited on 19 September 2025, at 02:05 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Federal Europe
35 languages
Add topic