Best Collagen Powder Supplements Of 2025 – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
Supplements
Best Collagen Powder Supplements Of 2025, According To Experts
Audited & Verified: Nov 5, 2024, 6:40am
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman
Contributor
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman is a journalist living in the Midwest with her husband and two young children. Her work explores the intersection of mental health, wellness and parenting. She is the former managing editor of Pregnancy Magazine. When not beh...
See Full Bio
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman
Contributor
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman is a journalist living in the Midwest with her husband and two young children. Her work explores the intersection of mental health, wellness and parenting. She is the former managing editor of Pregnancy Magazine. When not beh...
See Full Bio
Written By
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman
Contributor
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman is a journalist living in the Midwest with her husband and two young children. Her work explores the intersection of mental health, wellness and parenting. She is the former managing editor of Pregnancy Magazine. When not beh...
See Full Bio
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman
Contributor
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman is a journalist living in the Midwest with her husband and two young children. Her work explores the intersection of mental health, wellness and parenting. She is the former managing editor of Pregnancy Magazine. When not beh...
See Full Bio
Contributor
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Sarah Davis
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Fact Checked
|
Staff Editor
& 1 other
Audited & Verified: Nov 5, 2024, 6:40am
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Whether you’re looking to improve joint pain or add a boost of hydration to your skin, a collagen supplement may be worth exploring. Popular in powder form, some collagen powders even feature added nutrients—like amino acids—as well as delicious flavors, like chocolate and hazelnut.
But, with a wide range of powders available on the market, choosing the right one can be a challenge.
The Forbes Health editorial team asked a panel of four accredited nutrition experts to provide their recommendations for the best collagen powders of 2025, helping reduce the burden of your search. Star ratings are determined solely by the editorial team, looking at factors like cost per serving, calories per serving, third-party certifications and more. Read on to discover the best collagen powders of 2025.
Note: All product prices are accurate as of publication and are subject to change.
Show More
Find The Best Supplements For You
Best Protein Powders
Best Pre-Workout
Best Probiotic Supplements
Best Multivitamins For Men
Best Multivitamins For Women
Best Protein Shakes
Best Greens Powders
Best Magnesium Supplements
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes integrity in all of our vitamin and supplement rankings. Our rankings are based on expertise and professional recommendations from medical and nutrition experts and are free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured on our rankings and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about dietary supplements that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our supplement methodology for the rankings below.
Expert insight from 4 credentialed nutrition and medical professionals
Multiple metrics considered
Fact-checked by multiple health editors
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
Best Collagen Powders of 2025
Vital Proteins Collagen Peptides
NOW Collagen Peptides Powder
Bulletproof Unflavored Collagen Protein
True Nutrition Grass-Fed Hydrolyzed Beef Collagen
Multi Collagen Protein Stick Packs By Ancient Nutrition
Pure Encapsulations Collagen JS
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Collagen Powders of 2025
What Is Collagen?
Types of Collagen Supplements: Peptides and Gelatin
What Are The Health Benefits of Collagen Powder?
Potential Side Effects of Using Collagen Powder
Are Collagen Supplements Safe?
How to Use Collagen Powder
What Is The Recommended Daily Collagen Dosage?
Who Should Consider Using Collagen Powder?
Are All Collagen Powders Vegan?
Liquid Collagen vs. Powder: Which Is Best?
Collagen Powder vs. Pills: Which Is Best?
How Much Does Collagen Powder Cost?
How to Choose the Best Collagen Powder for You
Summary: Compare the Best Collagen Powders of 2025
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Transparent Labs Grass-Fed CollagenFormulated to deliver visible reductions in skin wrinkles and saggingAid in recovery for athletes, bone structure, and joint health Deliver bio-active peptides to the skin and connective tissuesSourced from 100% grass-fed, hormone-free, American cowsInformed Choice Certified for dosage, purity, and safety from banned substances	Shop Now	On Transparent Labs' Website
Best Collagen Powders of 2025
Vital Proteins Collagen Peptides
5.0
All costs are sourced from Amazon, and are accurate as of publication date.Cost per serving: $1.77Collagen peptides (from bovine)20 grams of collagen peptides per serving	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked ItThis collagen powder comes recommended by three panelists. “This collagen powder provides collagen I and III,” says Toby Amidor, a registered dietitian and Forbes Health Advisory Board member, adding that it’s free from artificial sweeteners, gluten and dairy. It contains just one ingredient: Collagen peptides from grass-fed and pasture-raised bovine, per the company, also available in a separate advanced formula with hyaluronic acid and vitamin C. ““This brand is perhaps one of the easiest to find in local stores,” says Kara Collier, a registered dietitian, co-founder of Nutrisense and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “[Its] manufacturing facility is both NSF and SQF Certified ensuring they meet Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards,”	Pros & ConsWhole30-approved and paleo-friendly, according to the companyRecommended by three panelistsGluten and dairy-freeMore expensive than others on this ranking	Our ExperienceAfter trying Vital Proteins Collagen Peptides for one year, our reviewer noticed brighter skin and improved knee pain—although it did take some time to notice results. Read our full Vital Proteins Collagen review to learn more.
NOW Collagen Peptides Powder
4.7
All costs are sourced from Amazon, and are accurate as of publication date.Cost per serving: $0.64Hydrolyzed bovine collagen10 grams of hydrolyzed bovine collagen per serving	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked It“This powder is made with bovine collagen I and III, known for their roles in bone, joint and skin health,” says Amidor. Additionally, she notes this powder has an Intertek GMP Supplement Certification (meaning it complies with certain product safety requirements for dietary supplements) and is halal and non-GMO project verified. 	Pros & ConsAffordable10 grams of protein per servingProduced in a GMP facility and manufactured without yeast, wheat, gluten, soy, corn, milk, egg, fish, shellfish or tree nut ingredients, according to the companyNo flavor variety	Additional InformationNOW Foods also produces Collagen Jelly Beauty Complex sticks, available in two flavors, Sweet Orange and Sweet Plum, with 10 jelly sticks per pack.
Bulletproof Unflavored Collagen Protein
4.6
All costs are sourced from Amazon, and are accurate as of publication date.Cost per serving: $1.28Hydrolyzed bovine collagen 20 grams of hydrolyzed collagen per serving	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked ItKeri Gans, a registered dietitian and Forbes Health Advisory Board member, recommends this product, noting, “hydrolyzed collagen is easier to absorb and digest than regular collagen.” Since this variety is unflavored, it can easily be mixed with hot or cold beverages, she says, adding that it may reduce signs of aging and support joint health.	Pros & ConsAvailable in 15-packet, 8.5-ounce, 17.6-ounce, 42.3-ounce and 3-pack (17.6-ounce) purchasing optionsIncludes 18 grams of proteinAlso available in vanilla and chocolate flavors and in a variety packLimited flavor variety	Additional DetailsThe collagen in this product is derived from pasture-raised cows with no added hormones, and is low in sugar and keto-friendly, notes the company.
True Nutrition Grass-Fed Hydrolyzed Beef Collagen
4.6
All costs are sourced from Amazon, and are accurate as of publication date.Cost per serving: $1.51Hydrolyzed beef collagen32 grams of collagen per serving (unflavored), according to a company representative	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked ItCollier also recommends this product from True Nutrition, noting that the brand offers a variety of collagen types—such as bovine, marine and porcine—and that its products are third-party tested for quality, purity and safety. Collier calls the brand’s products, “great for those who may need an extra protein boost or are lacking collagen sources from their diet (such as bone broth, sardines or organ meats).”	Pros & ConsThird-party lab tested, according to the companyIn addition to the unflavored version, this product is available in 33 different flavors, including French vanilla, cookie butter and more (nutritional values may vary)32 grams of protein per serving, making it the highest protein per serving on this listExact amount of collagen per serving not displayed on nutrition label	Additional informationTrue Nutrition’s Grass-Fed Hydrolyzed Beef Collagen is sourced from antibiotic-free and hormone-free cattle.It’s paleo, as well as gluten-, soy- and dairy-free.
Multi Collagen Protein Stick Packs By Ancient Nutrition
4.3
All costs are sourced from Amazon, and are accurate as of publication date.Cost per serving: $1.49Multi Collagen Complex, including hydrolyzed bovine hide collagen peptides, fermented eggshell membrane collagen, chicken bone broth protein concentrate, Bacillus coagulans (2 billion colony forming units ) and hydrolyzed fish collagen peptides10 grams of Multi Collagen Complex per serving	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked It“This [product] provides the consumer with efficacious amounts of type I, II, III, V and X collagen,” says Taylor Wallace, Ph.D., principal and CEO of the food science and nutrition research firm Think Healthy Group and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “This product does the trick for skin, joint and bone health due to the larger dose and array of collagens present. It’s also easy to add to water or other beverages like coffee,” he adds.	Pros & ConsCollagen sourced from multiple animal sources, which are non-GMO, grass-fed, pasture-raised and raised without hormones and antibiotics, according to the companyIncludes 2 billion CFU probiotics and 90 milligrams of vitamin CContains 9 grams of protein plus no carbohydrates or fatStick packs only come in unflavored	Our ExperienceWith mild taste and very little texture, our reviewer found this collagen powder easy to incorporate into a variety of beverages, and appreciated the added probiotics and vitamin C. Read our full Ancient Nutrition Collagen Powder review to learn more.
Pure Encapsulations Collagen JS
4.0
All costs are sourced from Amazon, and are accurate as of publication date.Cost per serving: $1.35Patented BioCell Collagen hydrolyzed collagen complex, including hydrolyzed chicken sternal cartilage extract1 gram of BioCell Collagen (60% or 600 milligrams of hydrolyzed collagen) per serving	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Picked ItPure Encapsulations Collagen JS contains patented BioCell Collagen, which offers hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate, notes Collier, adding that this collagen blend is specifically well-studied. Hyaluronic acid helps to lubricate joints and maintains skin moisture.	Pros & ConsCertified gluten-free, as well as free from GMOs, soy, dairy, wheat, eggs, tree nuts, peanuts and sesameFree from unneeded binders, fillers, preservatives and artificial colors and sweetenersFocus on sustainability by reducing plastic consumption and recycling product packaging, according to the companyVery low dose of collagen per serving	Additional InformationPure Encapsulations’ Collagen JS is also free from coatings and shellacs, trans fat and hydrogenated oils and magnesium stearate.
Dietary supplements are not regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and ingredients and their amounts may vary. Be sure to talk to your doctor before taking any supplement.
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Collagen Powders of 2025
To determine the best collagen powders of 2025, the Forbes Health editorial team consulted a panel of four accredited nutrition experts who provided their product recommendations. Star ratings were then determined solely by the editorial team, factoring in data points such as cost per serving, protein per serving, calories per serving, presence of added vitamins and minerals and whether it’s third-party tested.
Read more about our vitamins and supplements review methodology.
Unveil Youthful Radiance
Hydrolyzed collagen supplementation has been found to deliver bio-active peptides to the skin and connective tissues. This can be found to help approve skin health by helping to minimize the visibility of aging skin. Transparent Labs can help!
Shop Now
On Transparent Labs' Website
Meet Our Panel Of ExpertsOur Best Collagen Powders ranking is determined by a Forbes Health panel of experts. They provided their product recommendations, along with the reasons those products stood out. Taylor Wallace, Ph.D., C.F.S., F.A.C.N.NutritionTaylor Wallace, Ph.D., C.F.S., F.A.C.N.NutritionTaylor Wallace is principal and CEO of Think Healthy Group and a nutrition and food studies professor at Tufts University. Keri Gans, R.D.N.Nutrition Keri Gans, R.D.N.Nutrition Keri Gans is a registered dietitian nutritionist, certified yoga teacher, spokesperson, speaker, writer and author of The Small Change Diet. Toby Amidor, M.S., R.D., C.D.N, F.A.N.D.Food / Nutrition / Food SafetyToby Amidor, M.S., R.D., C.D.N, F.A.N.D.Food / Nutrition / Food SafetyToby Amidor is a registered dietitian, nutrition expert, food safety consultant, instructor, speaker and author in New York City. Kara Collier, R.D.N., L.D.N.Nutrition / Metabolism / GlucoseKara Collier, R.D.N., L.D.N.Nutrition / Metabolism / GlucoseKara Collier is the co-founder and VP of Health at Nutrisense, one of America’s fastest-growing wellness-tech startups
What Is Collagen?
Collagen is a protein that aids in strengthening skin, bone and other tissues. There are at least 16 different types of collagen, and 80% to 90% of collagen in the body are types I, II or III[1]Lodish H, Berk A, Zipursky SL, et al. Molecular Cell Biology. 4th edition. New York: W. H. Freeman; 2000. Section 22.3, Collagen: The Fibrous Proteins of the Matrix. .
While collagen is plentiful within the bodies of mammals, research shows natural collagen production decreases with age and lifestyle factors ranging from excessive sun exposure to smoking to lack of sleep. Research shows declining collagen production can result in changes like loss of skin firmness and elasticity, as well as bone loss.
As a result, many people use collagen supplements in an effort to offset natural collagen loss. Collagen supplements often come in powder form, which can be mixed with water or coffee, or as a pill, tablet, gummy or liquid.
Types of Collagen Supplements: Peptides and Gelatin
The collagen used in supplements is extracted from two primary sources: Animals and plants. Animal-based collagen typically comes from fish scales, pork or chicken skin, bone broth or egg whites. Plant-based collagen supplements are often manufactured using modified yeast and bacteria.
Collagen supplements are typically available in the following forms:
Peptides: Also known as hydrolyzed, this form features shorter chains of collagen that are broken down and more easily absorbed. Most collagen supplements come in this form.
Gelatin: Gelatin is essentially a degraded, cooked form of collagen. It can be made from cooking down animal bones, skin and cartilage. When offered in supplement form, it often appears as a gel and can be added as a thickening agent when cooking.
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Needed Prenatal Collagen ProteinRich with essential protein to support moms after pregnancyPromotes strong, healthy skin, shiny hair, flexible joints, and pelvic floor strengthDelivers nourishing amino acids for baby’s healthy growth and mama’s smooth recoveryMade with pure, clean, grass-fed, hormone-free collagen	Shop Now	On Needed's Website
What Are The Health Benefits of Collagen Powder?
While more research is warranted, existing studies show collagen supplementation may offer the following benefits:
Boosts skin health: One study found taking an oral collagen peptide supplement resulted in increased skin hydration and reduced hallmarks of skin aging[2]Asserin, J., Lati, E., Shioya, T. and Prawitt, J. (2015),. The effect of oral collagen peptide supplementation on skin moisture and the dermal collagen network: evidence from an ex vivo model and randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2015;14:291-301. .
Improves joint pain: A recent study of athletes in training found collagen
supplementation provided relief from joint pain[3]Clark K, Sebastianelli W, Flechsenhaur K, et al. 24-Week Study on the Use of Collagen Hydrolysate as a Dietary Supplement in Athletes With Activity-Related Joint Pain. Current Medical Research and Opinion. 2008;24(5):1485-1496. . Another study suggested even those suffering from osteoarthritis-related discomfort could find relief with collagen[4]Bakilan F, Armagan O, Ozgen M, et al. Effects of Native Type II Collagen Treatment on Knee Osteoarthritis: A Randomized Controlled Trial. The Eurasian Journal of Medicine. 2016;48(2):95-101. .
Collagen supplementation might provide additional benefits for athletes specifically. Shannon O’Grady, who holds a doctorate in nutritional physiology and works as the chief operating officer at Gnarly Nutrition in Salt Lake City, says athletes are especially at risk for complications of collagen loss. “Taking collagen peptides in the 30 to 60 minutes prior to training kickstarts collagen synthesis and may make tendons, ligaments and joints healthier, stronger and more resilient,” she says.
How Does Collagen Impact Your Health?
Simply put, collagen helps make connective tissue in the body, which means it’s essential for the production and health of bones, muscles, skin, tendons and cartilage.
Research suggests collagen supplements may improve joint mobility and decrease joint pain, as well as improve skin elasticity. However, more high-quality studies are needed to verify these initial results, especially because many of these studies are sponsored by collagen supplement companies (or other conflicts of interest) themselves, according to experts at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.
Potential Side Effects of Using Collagen Powder
While there’s limited data to prove the safety of collagen, its side effects are relatively mild (and are often limited to diarrhea, a feeling of fullness and skin rashes). In most adults, a collagen supplement shouldn’t pose a significant health risk.
For her clients, Schroeder recommends adding 10 grams of collagen hydrolysate to their diets by mixing the powder into a hot or cold beverage.
Does Collagen Powder Work?
While more research is needed, especially independent studies done without the sponsorship of collagen supplement companies, preliminary research shows that collagen may help boost skin health as well as ease joint pain.
One small 2019 study examining the effects of drinkable collagen peptides found that consuming collagen improved skin hydration, roughness and elasticity over 16 weeks[5]Bolke L, Schlippe G, Gerß J, Voss W. A Collagen Supplement Improves Skin Hydration, Elasticity, Roughness, and Density: Results of a Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Blind Study. Nutrients. 2019;11(10):2494. . However, it’s important to note that this study, like many others when it comes to collagen powder, was funded by a collagen supplement manufacturer.
Meanwhile, a 2021 review of clinical studies on the effects of collagen treatment observed that taking collagen supplements may help improve pain associated with arthritis[6]Wang H. A Review of the Effects of Collagen Treatment in Clinical Studies. Polymers (Basel). 2021;13(22):3868. .
Are Collagen Supplements Safe?
In general, prolonged use of collagen supplements appears safe—even at higher doses (60 grams a day) according to a a 2021 review in Amino Acids[7]Khatri M, Naughton RJ, Clifford T, et al. The effects of collagen peptide supplementation on body composition, collagen synthesis, and recovery from joint injury and exercise: a systematic review. Amino Acids. 2021;53(10):1493-1506. . However, because the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) doesn’t regulate supplements as it does medication, it’s important to make sure you understand the ingredients in your collagen powder, and are using a trusted brand.
Talking to your doctor or a nutritionist before deciding on a powder can help narrow your choices down to reputable brands.
How to Use Collagen Powder
Always take collagen powder as directed, and talk with your doctor or a nutritionist if you feel confused about the correct dosage. If you’re unsure how the specific collagen powder will agree with you, try to avoid ingesting it on an empty stomach, to avoid any unforeseen mild digestive side effects.
What Should You Mix Collagen Powder With?
It’s common to mix collagen powder into cold liquids like smoothies or shakes, or even in hot beverages like coffee. The brand of collagen powder you choose will likely include suggested ways to ingest it on the container.
When Is the Best Time to Take Collagen Powder?
As a rule of thumb, it’s always best to take a supplement as indicated on the product label. Generally, the best time to take collagen is whenever you can fit it into your routine.
What Is The Recommended Daily Collagen Dosage?
There is currently no set dosage for the amount of collagen supplements or powder one should consume daily.
According to a 2019 review on hydrolyzed collagen, one of the more common types of collagen, 2.5 to 15 grams can be safely ingested per day[8]Paul C, Leser S, Oesser S. Significant Amounts of Functional Collagen Peptides Can Be Incorporated in the Diet While Maintaining Indispensable Amino Acid Balance. Nutrients. 2019;11(5):1079. .
Many collagen powders advise a dosage of one to two scoops per serving, but recommendations depend on the brand.
What Happens If You Take Too Much Collagen?
In general, collagen powder is considered a safe supplement to take daily, but because there is no set amount that is recommended by doctors or nutrition experts. It’s possible that taking an overabundance of collagen may cause side effects, such as mild to moderate gastrointestinal issues.
Pro Tip Be careful not to overdo it. Follow the dosage instructions on the product label, and take into consideration other supplements you may be taking simultaneously to make sure you stay within the Tolerable Upper Intake Level, which is the maximum amount of a daily nutrient that is unlikely to cause adverse health effects.
Who Should Consider Using Collagen Powder?
Those who are looking to ease joint pain or want an extra boost for their skin health may want to consider adding collagen powder to their routine. However, experts agree that taking collagen supplements can’t replace a healthy lifestyle. To protect your body’s natural collagen, experts recommend sticking to the following habits:
Wear sunscreen or hats to protect from harmful UV rays
Get seven to nine hours of sleep each night
Avoid smoking and secondhand smoke
Do what you can to ease chronic stress
Eat a balanced diet that consists of plenty of fruits, vegetables and protein-rich foods
Who May Not Benefit From Collagen Powder?
Individuals with allergies or sensitivities to sulfites or certain animal-based foods (like fish or shellfish) should avoid collagen powders that contain those ingredients. Additionally, those who are pregnant or lactating may want to avoid taking collagen powder due to lack of research on how collagen supplementation affects these populations.
Are All Collagen Powders Vegan?
Most collagen powders, as well as gelatin, are derived from animal sources such as bones, the skin of pigs or the skin of fish, so they are not considered vegan. While there are collagen powders that market themselves as vegan, collagen in its true form is not vegan.
Liquid Collagen vs. Powder: Which Is Best?
The best form of collagen depends on factors like personal preference, convenience and side effects. In general, the best form of collagen fits into your personal diet and budget and causes little or no side effects.
Collagen Powder vs. Pills: Which Is Best?
As with most supplements, the form of collagen that is better for you is the one you feel comfortable consistently taking that results in minimal side effects.
How Much Does Collagen Powder Cost?
Collagen powder can vary in cost depending on brand, size of container and ingredients. For instance, the products on our list range anywhere from almost $22 to $80 per canister.
Unveil Youthful Radiance
Hydrolyzed collagen supplementation has been found to deliver bio-active peptides to the skin and connective tissues. This can be found to help approve skin health by helping to minimize the visibility of aging skin. Transparent Labs can help!
Shop Now
On Transparent Labs' Website
How to Choose the Best Collagen Powder for You
When shopping for a collagen supplement, it’s important to remember that collagen is not a complete protein, says Zoe Schroeder, a registered dietitian nutritionist in Tucson, Arizona. Therefore, she recommends combining a collagen supplement with other protein sources like foods or protein powder.
Schroeder advises consumers to also look for products that are third-party tested—doing so will lower the risk of heavy metal contaminants being present in the product.
Additionally, she recommends reading the ingredient list carefully. The key, she says, is finding a supplement with a short ingredient list. “There really should just be collagen,” she notes, adding that some brands may also include vitamin C, which is fine, too. Schroeder looks for unflavored varieties to allow for greater versatility.
There are flavored products as well, though she reminds consumers that choosing a flavor might also mean the inclusion of more ingredients and additives.
Summary: Compare the Best Collagen Powders of 2025
Vital Proteins Collagen Peptides
5.0
Shop NowOn Amazon
NOW Collagen Peptides Powder
4.7
Shop NowOn Amazon
Bulletproof Unflavored Collagen Protein
4.6
Shop NowOn Amazon
True Nutrition Grass-Fed Hydrolyzed Beef Collagen
4.6
Shop NowOn Amazon
Multi Collagen Protein Stick Packs By Ancient Nutrition
4.3
Shop NowOn Amazon
Pure Encapsulations Collagen JS
4.0
Shop NowOn Amazon
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATINGS
LEARN MORE
Vital Proteins Collagen Peptides
5.0
Shop NowOn Amazon
NOW Collagen Peptides Powder
4.7
Shop NowOn Amazon
Bulletproof Unflavored Collagen Protein
4.6
Shop NowOn Amazon
True Nutrition Grass-Fed Hydrolyzed Beef Collagen
4.6
Shop NowOn Amazon
Multi Collagen Protein Stick Packs By Ancient Nutrition
4.3
Shop NowOn Amazon
Pure Encapsulations Collagen JS
4.0
Shop NowOn Amazon
See More See Less
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What is the best collagen powder to use?
Because of the wide variety of collagen powders out there, the best collagen powder is one that fits your personal needs.
What is collagen good for?
Collagen is a protein that aids in the strengthening of skin, bone and other tissues. Collagen supplements have been shown to decrease joint pain and improve joint mobility, as well as help with skin elasticity. However, more high-quality studies need to be done to verify these initial results.
Can you take a collagen supplement on keto?
If you are on a keto diet, it’s important to look for a collagen supplement that does not include added sugar and is lower in carbs. Keto-specific collagen powder is available on Amazon and other online retailers.
What age should you start taking collagen?
Adults can supplement with collagen at any age.
Where does collagen come from?
Collagen is found in the flesh, cartilage and bone of animals.
How long does it take for collagen powder to work?
Research indicates that it may take as long as six to 12 weeks of taking collagen supplements to notice an improvement in skin health.
Sources
Footnotes
Lodish H, Berk A, Zipursky SL, et al.
Molecular Cell Biology. 4th edition. New York: W. H. Freeman; 2000. Section 22.3, Collagen: The Fibrous Proteins of the Matrix.
Asserin, J., Lati, E., Shioya, T. and Prawitt, J. (2015),.
The effect of oral collagen peptide supplementation on skin moisture and the dermal collagen network: evidence from an ex vivo model and randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trials. J Cosmet Dermatol. 2015;14:291-301.
Clark K, Sebastianelli W, Flechsenhaur K, et al.
24-Week Study on the Use of Collagen Hydrolysate as a Dietary Supplement in Athletes With Activity-Related Joint Pain. Current Medical Research and Opinion. 2008;24(5):1485-1496.
Bakilan F, Armagan O, Ozgen M, et al.
Effects of Native Type II Collagen Treatment on Knee Osteoarthritis: A Randomized Controlled Trial. The Eurasian Journal of Medicine. 2016;48(2):95-101.
Bolke L, Schlippe G, Gerß J, Voss W.
A Collagen Supplement Improves Skin Hydration, Elasticity, Roughness, and Density: Results of a Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Blind Study. Nutrients. 2019;11(10):2494.
Wang H.
A Review of the Effects of Collagen Treatment in Clinical Studies. Polymers (Basel). 2021;13(22):3868.
Khatri M, Naughton RJ, Clifford T, et al.
The effects of collagen peptide supplementation on body composition, collagen synthesis, and recovery from joint injury and exercise: a systematic review. Amino Acids. 2021;53(10):1493-1506.
Paul C, Leser S, Oesser S.
Significant Amounts of Functional Collagen Peptides Can Be Incorporated in the Diet While Maintaining Indispensable Amino Acid Balance. Nutrients. 2019;11(5):1079.
References
Dunmore S.E.
Extracellular Matrix.
Encyclopedia of Respiratory Medicine. 2006;168-175.
Reilly D, Lozano J.
Skin Collagen Through the Lifestages: Importance for Skin Health and Beauty.
Plastic and Aesthetic Research. 2021;8(2).
Shuster S.
Osteoporosis, Like Skin Ageing, is Caused by Collagen Loss Which is Reversible.
Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine. 2020;113(4):158-160.
Martini N.
Collagen Supplements.
Journal of Primary Health Care. 2019;11(4):385-386.
Collagen.
Harvard T.H Chan School of Public Health. Accessed 12/14/2022.
León-López A, Morales-Peñaloza A, Martínez-Juárez VM, et al.
Hydrolyzed Collagen-Sources and Applications.
Molecules. 2019;24(22):4031.
Van Vijven JP, Luijsterburg PA, Verhagen AP, et al.
Symptomatic and chondroprotective treatment with collagen derivatives in osteoarthritis: a systematic review.
Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2012;20(8):809-821.
Deane CS, Bass JJ, Crossland H, et al.
Animal, Plant, Collagen and Blended Dietary Proteins: Effects on Musculoskeletal Outcomes.
Nutrients. 2020;12(9):2670.
Considering collagen drinks and supplements?.
Harvard Health Publishing. Accessed 11/3/2023.
Should you take collagen supplements?.
UCLA Health. Accessed 11/3/2023.
Collagen supplements.
The Royal New Zealand College of General Practitioners. Accessed 11/3/2023.
Papakonstantinou E, Roth M, Karakiulakis G.
Hyaluronic acid: A key molecule in skin aging.
Dermatoendocrinol. 2012;4(3):253-258.
Henrotin Y, Mathy M, Sanchez C et al.
Chondroitin sulfate in the treatment of osteoarthritis: from in vitro studies to clinical recommendations.
Ther Adv Musculoskelet Dis. 2010;2(6):335-348.
Next Up In Supplements
Best Protein Powders
Best Greens Powders
Best Pre Workout
Best Clean Protein Powders
Best Whey Protein Powder
Best Protein Powders For Weight Loss
Best Fish Oil Supplements
Best Supplements And Vitamins For Gut Health
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman
Contributor
Lizzie Duszynski-Goodman is a journalist living in the Midwest with her husband and two young children. Her work explores the intersection of mental health, wellness and parenting. She is the former managing editor of Pregnancy Magazine. When not behind her computer, you can find her on a yoga mat or with her nose in a good book.
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and Bankrate. When she isn’t writing or editing, you can find Sarah with her nose in a book or enjoying the outdoors with her French bulldog, Honey.
Find The Best Supplements For You
Best Protein Powders
Best Pre-Workout
Best Probiotic Supplements
Best Multivitamins For Men
Best Multivitamins For Women
Best Protein Shakes
Best Greens Powders
Best Magnesium Supplements
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise