Best Minecraft Server Hosting Service of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting Service of 2025
We’ve broken down the pricing and features of top Minecraft server hosting companies to help you find the best hosting plan for running your own server.
Our Experts
Written by
Alison DeNisco Rayome
Written by
Dianna Gunn
Article updated on May 29, 2025 at 9:09 AM PDT
Alison DeNisco Rayome Managing Editor Managing Editor Alison DeNisco Rayome joined CNET in 2019, and is a member of the Home team. She is a co-lead of the CNET Tips and We Do the Math series, and manages the Home Tips series, testing out new hacks for cooking, cleaning and tinkering with all of the gadgets and appliances in your house. Alison was previously an editor at TechRepublic. Expertise Home Tips, including cooking, cleaning and appliances hacks Credentials National Silver Azbee Award for Impact/Investigative Journalism; National Gold Azbee Award for Online Single Topic Coverage by a Team; National Bronze Azbee Award for Web Feature Series
See full bio
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time. Expertise Web Hosting, Online Business Management
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to Consider
Server specs
Look for a plan with good processing power and RAM to prevent lag, plus enough storage to accommodate the Minecraft world you're trying to build.
Location
Your game will run faster if your computer's retrieving data from a server near your geographical location rather than a server stored on the other side of the world.
Ease of use
Look for a Minecraft server host with an easy-to-use control panel that you can use to make adjustments to your server as needed.
Security
Your Minecraft server should be secured with a firewall to keep out malware and DDoS protection to prevent your server from being overwhelmed by malicious traffic.
Customer service
You should be able to access customer service 24/7 through your preferred method of communication (live chat, phone or email). Some companies may offer multiple methods of communication.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
With over 204.33 million active players, Minecraft is one of the most popular games. The beloved video game even has a recent film adaptation. You can join the fun by creating your own Minecraft world and inviting people from around the globe to play with you if you build your own server. Thankfully, you don't have to build it from the ground up. There are dozens of Minecraft server hosting companies, each built for different types and sizes of servers, which can be great -- but also overwhelming. To save you time, we've researched these companies and compiled a list of the best Minecraft server hosting options that'll keep your game running around the clock. After all, reliable hosting is the backbone of any online world. Our Picks
Best overall Hostinger
Jump to details
See at Hostinger
Jump to details
Best storage Apex Hosting
Jump to details
See at Apex Hosting
Jump to details
Best uptime Shockbyte
Jump to details
See at Shockbyte
Jump to details
Best variety of plans GGServers
Jump to details
See at GGServers
Jump to details
Best for multiple servers ScalaCube
Jump to details
See at Scalacube
Jump to details
WEB HOSTING DEALS OF THE WEEK
Ultahost — Web Hosting plans (Use code ‘CNET’ for extra 15% off):  $3 (save $5)
Hostinger — Save 75% Off 2 Years Premium Plan + 3 Months Free:  $3 (save $12)
IONOS — Save 93% Off 1 Year IONOS Plus Plan:  $1 (save $14)
HostGator — Save 66% Off 3 Years HostGator Hatchling Plan:  $3 (save $11)
InMotion Hosting — Save 81% Off 1 Year Core Plan:  $3 (save $12) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Minecraft Server Hosting Service of 2025
Best Minecraft server hosting services
Best overall
Best storage
Best uptime
Best variety of plans
Best for multiple servers
Factors to consider when choosing a Minecraft server host
How we test the best third-party Minecraft server hosts
Other unofficial Minecraft hosting options to consider
Minecraft server hosting FAQ
Read more: Best Web Hosting Services for 2025Best Minecraft server hosting services
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best overall
Hostinger
Pros
Generous introductory discount for two-year contracts
NVMe storage for improved performance
Automated off-site backups
Cons
Only one vCPU on lowest-tier plan
Hostinger has a Trustpilot rating of 4.7 out of 5, with more than 45,000 reviews. Hostinger also earned top marks in our hands-on Hostinger review, with excellent server performance and management tools. While our review process focuses on shared hosting for websites, it's safe to assume that you'll enjoy similarly excellent performance if you choose one of its Minecraft server hosting plans. Hostinger's Minecraft server plans also include mod support, DDoS -- distributed denial of service -- protection and automated backups.Hostinger's most affordable Minecraft hosting plan starts at $5 a month for the first two years (renews at $9 a month) and includes 4GB of RAM, one vCPU core and 50GB of storage. The most expensive Hostinger Minecraft hosting plan starts at $20 a month for two years (renews at $45 a month) and includes 32GB of RAM, eight vCPU cores and 400GB. All of Hostinger's Minecraft servers use NVMe storage for faster, more reliable performance than the more standard SSD storage.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Hostinger
Specs & Configurations
Starting Price
$5 a month (based on two-year contract)RAM
4GB to 32GBDDoS Protection
Yes
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best storage
Apex Hosting
Pros
Generous free trial
Unlimited storage space on all plans
Worldwide server locations
Cons
Plans offer low RAM for the number of player slots listed
Apex Hosting (now merged with MCProHosting) offers 10 Minecraft server host plans, plus a Proxy plan to build a server network to play minigames or have different game modes. Its Proxy plan 512MB mini-server costs $1.88 for the first month ($2.50 a month after). The most affordable server hosting plan costs $6 for the first month and $8 a month afterward for 1 or 2GB of RAM, depending on the Minecraft version. The most expensive plan starts at $78 for the first month and rises to $104 a month afterward for 32GB RAM and unlimited player slots. Every plan includes unlimited storage space, unlimited player slots, worldwide server locations and DDoS protection.You can save money by choosing a quarterly plan over the monthly option. The cheapest quarterly plan starts at $16.20 per month for the first three months and rises to $21.60 monthly in the second quarter, with 2GB of RAM.Apex Hosting is an international company and is not BBB accredited, but it does have a Better Business Bureau page with a D- ranking and four complaints (three of which have been closed). However, Apex Hosting has a Trustpilot rating of 4.5 out of 5 with almost 8,000 reviews.   ... Show more
Get it now
See at Apex Hosting
Specs & Configurations
Starting Price
$6 for the first month; renews at $8 a monthRAM
1GB to 32GBDDoS Protection
Yes
Add to compare
ShockByte
Photo Gallery 1/1
ShockByte
Best uptime
Shockbyte
Pros
100% uptime
Instant setup
Free subdomain
Server locations in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia
Cons
RAM is low for number of player slots listed
Server locations in Asia and Australia cost an extra $2 a month
Shockbyte is a game server provider, offering nine different Minecraft server hosting plan options, along with the ability to design a custom plan. Month-to-month pricing ranges from $4 a month for 1GB RAM and eight slots to $64 a month for 16GB RAM and unlimited player slots, with some discounts available for the first month. All plans include 100% uptime, DDoS protection, instant setup and a free subdomain name.You can save money on Shockbyte hosting by choosing annual payments, with the first year on the lowest-tier plan dropping to $3 a month and the highest-tier plan dropping to $48 a month. Shockbyte is based in Australia, so it does not have a BBB page. It does have a Trustpilot rating of 4.1 out of 5 with almost 10,000 reviews.   ... Show more
Get it now
See at Shockbyte
Specs & Configurations
Starting price
$4 a monthRAM
1GB to 16GBDDoS Protection
Yes
Add to compare
GGServers
Photo Gallery 1/1
GGServers
Best variety of plans
GGServers
Pros
Ability to install mod packs during initial setup
Nine server locations around the globe
Free subdomain
Instant activation
Cons
Low RAM for number of player slots listed
Low storage on most affordable plans
MySQL costs extra
GGServers offers ten different Minecraft server hosting plans, each of which comes with the option for standard or premium (which doubles the price). Standard plans offer DDR4 2133 MHz RAM, 3.2-4GHz CPU and 400MBps read/write SSD. It also costs an extra $2 a month to add on a MySQL database or unlimited slots. You don't get access to all nine server locations, either. Premium plans offer DDR4 2,400 MHz RAM, 4.4-5GHz CPU, 2,500-plus MBps read/write SSD and include the MySQL database, unlimited slots and all nine server locations worldwide. Both plan types include a free subdomain, DDoS protection and instant activation. Standard plans range from $3 a month for 1,024MB RAM and 12 player slots for the standard setup (or $6 a month for the premium setup) to $96 a month for 32,768MB RAM for the standard setup (or $192 a month for the premium setup). GGServers is based in Canada and does not have a BBB page, but it does have a Trustpilot rating of 4.5 out of 5 with more than 3,000 reviews.   ... Show more
Get it now
See at GGServers
Specs & Configurations
Starting Price
$3 a month or $6 a month for premiumRAM
1,024MB (1GB) to 32,768MB (32GB)DDoS Protection
Yes
Add to compare
ScalaCube
Photo Gallery 1/1
ScalaCube
Best for multiple servers
ScalaCube
Pros
Ten server locations
Instant setup including modpacks
All plans allow multiple servers to be installed on one VPS
Automated backups
Free web hosting, domain and MySQL with all plans
Cons
RAM is low for number of player slots offered
ScalaCube is another game-specific server hosting vendor. There are nine paid plan options ranging from $2 a month for 768MB RAM, 2x3.4GHz CPU, 10GB SSD storage, 10 player slots and unlimited servers to $96 a month for 32GB RAM, 8x3.4GHz CPU, 320GB SSD storage, 600 player slots and unlimited servers. You'll also find Minecraft Pocket Edition server hosting options, ranging from $5 a month for a basic server to $96 a month for 600 players. All Minecraft and Minecraft Pocket Edition plans include multiple servers, backup, DDoS support and free web hosting, domain and MySQL. ScalaCube is based in Estonia and does not have a BBB page. It has a Trustpilot rating of 4.3 out of 5 from almost 4,000 reviews.   ... Show more
Get it now
See at Scalacube
Specs & Configurations
Starting Price
$2 a monthRAM
768MB to 32GBDDoS Protection
Yes
Add to compareFactors to consider when choosing a Minecraft server host
Server specs and resource allocationYour server needs to have enough resources to run your game smoothly for the number of players you want/expect to have in your server. There are three resource types to pay attention to here:Central Processing Unit or CPU - Minecraft relies primarily on the CPU to execute its instructions. The FPS -- Frames Per Second -- rate may be limited if the server's CPU isn't powerful enough. Ideal CPU power depends on the number of players you want to include. Requirements also vary based on the server's operating system.Random Access Memory or RAM - RAM determines response times, how much of the Minecraft environment you can load at once, and the number of players you can have before your server slows down. Heavy resource packs may also influence the amount of RAM you need. You'll require a minimum of 1GB of RAM for one to four players and 2GB for five to 10 players.Storage - This determines how much world information you can store and how many backups you can create. You'll need at least 2GB of empty space for one to two players and 10GB of empty space for three to five players.Exact resource requirements vary based on the number of players you're going to host on your server, the operating system of your server and the resource packs you're using. There are many online resources, like the Minecraft Fandom site, where you can find information on the resources your server will need for your exact game setup. You can also reach out to customer service for any host you're considering to learn about the types of games their servers are capable of supporting.LocationYour host should let you choose a data center close to your location to store your server on. This will improve loading speeds and ensure that your game runs smoothly. If you're running a game with international players, ask the host you're considering about the steps they take to ensure that the game will run smoothly for people in other locations. Ease of useYour Minecraft server host should provide an easy-to-use Control Panel where you can manage key aspects of your server. SecurityYour Minecraft server host should provide a firewall, DDoS protection and anti-virus software to keep your game secure and protect your players' data.Customer serviceLook for 24/7 customer service accessible via live chat and email. You may also want to choose a host with phone support. How we test the best third-party Minecraft server hosts
Angela Lang/CNETIt's important to note that we didn't explicitly "test" the Minecraft hosting provider options on this list. Instead, we compiled a competitive overview based on a variety of factors, including third-party ratings and features offered by each hosting company. We've also weighted the rankings of these businesses by the Better Business Bureau and TrustPilot. With that data in hand, we split them into two tiers: Best Minecraft hosting providers (top tier): These Minecraft host vendors all have a rating of A or higher from the nonprofit Better Business Bureau (except in cases when the companies are based outside of North America and not included in the BBB ranking system) and a rating of 4.0 or higher out of 5 from TrustPilot, a Danish consumer review site. All of the TrustPilot rankings are based on at least 1,000 user reviews. All of the vendors listed in our top picks also say they offer 24/7 support and modpack support. Other Minecraft hosting options to consider (second tier): All of these Minecraft host vendors have TrustPilot ratings of 4.0 or above; those ratings are based on fewer than 1,000 user reviews. Some have low ratings from the BBB that are worth taking a look at before making your decision or do not have a BBB page due to location. Important caveats: The Better Business Bureau is not affiliated with any government agency and does not rate companies outside of North America. To be BBB Accredited, companies pay a fee to the organization. TrustPilot, meanwhile, also offers a paid tier that provides companies more interaction with their user ratings. It also removed 2.2 million fake reviews in 2020.A note on pricing: We've made every effort to verify that the prices listed here were accurate at the time of last publication, but prices in this category are subject to frequent fluctuations and are also consistently subject to special offers and limited deals. Further, many of the prices listed here reflect the monthly rates if you prepay for 12 months of service or are limited-time introductory prices. Please check the vendors in question to verify pricing at any given time. Other unofficial Minecraft hosting options to consider
The following Minecraft server hosts have slightly lower or fewer TrustPilot and/or BBB ratings than the ones above. BisectHostingBisectHosting offers 25 different plans, each with an option for a budget or premium package. The budget Minecraft hosting plan costs $3 a month for 2GB of RAM and go up to around $144 a month for 48GB of RAM. Premium plans range from $10 a month to about $240 a month, with the same amounts of RAM as their budget counterparts but with more locations and free daily backups, modpack updates, sponge installation and a dedicated IP address. BisectHosting has a B- rating from the BBB, but it also has a TrustPilot rating of 4.7 out of 5 with almost 10,000 reviews. See all BisectHosting plansNodecraftNodecraft also offers Minecraft Java and Bedrock Edition server hosting, starting at around $6 a month. Nodecraft has a A+ rating from the BBB and a 4.9 out of 5 TrustPilot rating, with more than 1,400 reviews. See all Nodecraft plansSparked HostSparked Host offers game and cloud hosting, with 15 different Minecraft server hosting plan options, starting at $2.40 a month. Sparked Host has an A+ BBB rating and a TrustPilot rating of 4.7 out of 5 with more than 1,500 reviews. See all Sparked Host plansPebbleHostPebbleHost is home to both Minecraft and other gaming and dedicated servers. It offers budget, premium or extreme plans depending on your needs, starting at $1 per GB a month. PebbleHost is based in the UK and does not have a BBB page, but it has a TrustPilot rating of 4.7 out of 5 with more than 3,000 reviews. See all PebbleHost plansFormer CNET editor Dawnthea Price Lisco contributed to this report. Minecraft server hosting FAQ
What is the best Minecraft server host?
Hostinger is the best Minecraft server host, with excellent server performance during our hands-on test and a 4.6 out of five star Trustpilot ranking based on over 30,000 reviews.
Show more
What is the best amount of RAM for a Minecraft server?
The amount of RAM you need for a Minecraft server depends on the number of players you'll have. You'll need 1GB for 1-4 players, 2GB for 5-10 players and more RAM for larger servers.
Show more
Is two CPU cores enough for a Minecraft server?
Two CPU cores may be enough to run a small Minecraft server. Many experts recommend using more cores, especially if you plan to have more than a few players on your server.
Show more
What is the best free 24/7 Minecraft server host?
ScalaCube offers the best free Minecraft server hosting plan, with 6GB of RAM and 30GB of storage. ScalaCube's free plan also features advanced DDoS protection and a 99.99% uptime. However, you'll only be able to have two players on a Java server or one player on a Bedrock server. This makes it great for building the basics of a Minecraft world, but you'll need to upgrade to a paid plan if you want to play with a group. You won't need to pay much, though -- ScalaCube's premium plans start at just $2 a month.
Show more
How much does a 24/7 Minecraft server cost?
You can get a 24/7 Minecraft server for free, but it will come with strict limitations. Premium plans offer more flexibility for as little as $2 per month.
Show more
Do I need an IP address to host a Minecraft server?
No, you don't need an IP address to host a Minecraft server. However, a dedicated IP address can be worthwhile if you want to build a professional server, as it allows you to do things like building a public presence for your server.
Show more
About the Author
Alison DeNisco Rayome Managing Editor Alison DeNisco Rayome Managing Editor
Managing Editor Alison DeNisco Rayome joined CNET in 2019, and is a member of the Home team. She is a co-lead of the CNET Tips and We Do the Math series, and manages the Home Tips series, testing out new hacks for cooking, cleaning and tinkering with all of the gadgets and appliances in your house. Alison was previously an editor at TechRepublic.
Read full bio
Also written by
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.