Save big on Samsung's versatile 27-inch monitor as it falls to $150
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Save big on Samsung's versatile 27-inch monitor as it falls to $150
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 7, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Samsung M5 27-inch Smart Monitor
$150
$280
Save $130
The Samsung M5 monitor packs in smart features powered by Samsung's Tizen OS. It can be a fantastic monitor for work, while also being the centerpiece of your entertainment hub as well.
$150 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
Samsung's smart monitor is perfect if you're looking to get something for work and entertainment. What makes this monitor different from others is that it runs software called Tizen OS. With Tizen OS, you gain access to a wealth of smart features, like your favorite streaming apps, along with Samsung's Gaming Hub. There are even some apps for productivity as well, which will allow you to work exclusively from the monitor, without having to plug in a laptop or PC. This is a huge perk if you're someone that wants to get some light work done without having to pop into your computer. Of course, you can still do that too, as there a multiple HDMI ports, so you can connect other devices to this monitor.
In addition, you can also remotely connect with a compatible PC. It even has the ability to control other compatible smart devices as well. As you can probably tell, this monitor delivers quite an experience. But it does so at a price that's more than fair. You get a large 27-inch screen, dual speakers, and a remote control. It also features plenty of connectivity with two HDMI and two USB ports, along with software features from Tizen OS. So if this sounds like something you've been looking for, pick one up for just $150 from Amazon. You're saving nearly 50% off with this limited-time deal. It's the cheapest price we've seen in quite some time. Or if you need some other choices, these monitors are some of favorites. With that said, they might not be as cheap as the Samsung, but you might find something interesting out fo the bunch.
Monitors
Samsung
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
Arm skipped the NPU hype, making the CPU great at AI instead
Sep 9, 2025
I used to fear the Raspberry Pi’s underwater Wi-Fi capabilities, but now I’m looking forward to it
Sep 9, 2025
This underdog brand's NAS is now blowing up on Amazon thanks to a new low price
Sep 10, 2025
Windows 11 is making it easier to transfer data to a new PC — here's how it works
More from our brands
5 Android TV features I wish were in Samsung's Tizen TV OS
Galaxy Store support for these legacy Galaxy Watch models is ending soon
Don't start watching your new TV without doing this first
How to Make Your Dumb TV Smart With These 5 Gadgets
A failed smartphone OS paved the way for this modern TV innovation
6 Versatile Smart Monitors for Gamers, Streamers, and Binge-Watchers Who Want It All in One Display
5 Samsung TV settings I change right away
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
56 minutes ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
If you thought Snapdragon X was cool, Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme blows it away
Even with the world's highest electricity prices, my high-end PC isn't the energy hog I expected
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.