What drove the rise of civilizations? A decades-long quest points to warfare
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
book reviews
article
What drove the rise of civilizations? A decades-long quest points to warfare
Download PDF
BOOK REVIEW
22 September 2025
What drove the rise of civilizations? A decades-long quest points to warfare
An ambitious analysis of a vast trove of data from 800 societies around the world concludes that there’s safety in numbers.
By
Laura Spinney0
Laura Spinney
Laura Spinney is a writer based in Paris. Her latest book is Proto: How One Ancient Language Went Global (2025).
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
A wall painting depicting Aztec culture by Mexican artist Diego Rivera. Credit: Ron Giling/Alamy
The Great Holocene Transformation: What Complexity Science Tells Us about the Evolution of Complex Societies Peter Turchin Beresta Books (2025)When Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés arrived in Mexico in 1519, he found monarchs, cities, roads, markets, schools, astronomers, law courts and much else that also existed in his native Spain. Put another way, two cultural experiments had been running in parallel for 15,000 years, and when they came into contact, each recognized the other’s institutions.It wasn’t just the civilizations of the Americas and Europe that resembled each other by that time. As biologist-turned-historian Peter Turchin observes in his tenth book, The Great Holocene Transformation, more than half of the world’s population in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries lived in five or six large societies with political systems that were remarkably structurally similar. His argument is that this was not a coincidence; although every society is unique, they have features in common that make them comparable.How the world’s largest language family spread — and why others go extinctThis might not seem like a radical statement, but to some scholars it is. They argue that each society’s history is unique and that no meaningful comparison is possible. Others think it is possible in theory, but are uncomfortable with the translation of historical knowledge into binary categories or numbers, saying that it glosses over the inherent difficulty of interpreting the past from the ever-shifting vantage point of the present.The small army of archaeologists, economists and other social scientists who work with Turchin on that gargantuan task of translation is convinced that this problem is tractable, and that such quantification will reveal patterns in history. The more data you collect, the more clearly the signal will emerge from the noise, they say. Equipped with large databases, powerful computational and analytical tools and artificial intelligence (AI), scholars can find these patterns and even predict how they might shape societies in the future.In this book, Turchin sets out to answer what he calls “perhaps the biggest question in historical social science”: why, over the past 10,000 years — the epoch known as the Holocene — small collectives of foragers and farmers grew by seven orders of magnitude to become the societies familiar to Cortés and his Aztec adversary, Moctezuma II.Why Africans should be telling the story of human originsHis answer, depressingly and paradoxically, is war. It was war that made us “ultrasocial”, to use his word, ratcheting up the size and complexity of those collectives until they became the states and empires that existed on the eve of the Industrial Revolution — the point at which his analysis ends. Ultrasociality was the secret of survival in this perpetual arms race, making it the ultimate military technology — or war the ultimate social technology.He addressed the same question in his 2015 book, Ultrasociety, but that was written for a non-mathematically minded audience. This time, he shows his workings, and he has more data and better tools.The Great Holocene Transformation is the culmination of more than 20 years’ work, during which he and others built the Seshat database — a storehouse of historical and archaeological information on more than 800 societies around the globe. This and similar databases that have emerged in the past decade form the basis of his cross-cultural and cross-temporal comparisons.Social benefitsScientific progress is usually the whittling down of theories to a few, and ultimately to one, through testing them against data. But where the Holocene transformation is concerned, theories have proliferated. The time has come, Turchin writes, “to create a killing field for theories and start retiring them to the cemetery of theories”.His starting point is that, ten millennia being too short for biological evolution to have driven notable change, the mechanisms that fuelled this societal shift must have been cultural. Among the theories assessed are that agriculture, internal conflict, warfare or external conflict, and religion were the main drivers of societal complexification. Some ideas are dismissed, some are found to be useful but wanting, and the story that emerges, in a nutshell, goes as follows.A farmer in a tobacco field in Pinar del Rio, Cuba.Credit: David Silverman/GettyBefore the Holocene, cumulative cultural evolution — the capacity of humans to build on the advances of their ancestors — produced technologies that allowed communities to adapt to their environment and increase in size. The threat of war between expanding groups drove the shift to agriculture — because agriculture could sustain more people than foraging could for a given patch of land — and further developments in military technology.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
Nature 645, 845-847 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03033-4
Competing Interests
The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles
How the world’s largest language family spread — and why others go extinct
Why Africans should be telling the story of human origins
Why amphibious, wet environments hold the key to climate adaptation
Gaia Vince on how climate change will shape where people live
The meaning of the Anthropocene: why it matters even without a formal geological definition
Subjects
History
Sociology
Latest on:
History
Sociology
How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble now
Comment 24 SEP 25
Fossil fight: how Raymond Dart countered some unfair criticism
News & Views 23 SEP 25
Bug bites convince UK doctor to support mosquito research centre
News & Views 09 SEP 25
Protests are infectious: mapping rural unrest in Revolutionary France
News & Views 09 SEP 25
An abiding mystery of the French Revolution is solved — by epidemiology
News 27 AUG 25
Emotional AI is here — let’s shape it, not shun it
Correspondence 26 AUG 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University School of Medicine
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
How the world’s largest language family spread — and why others go extinct
Why Africans should be telling the story of human origins
Why amphibious, wet environments hold the key to climate adaptation
Gaia Vince on how climate change will shape where people live
The meaning of the Anthropocene: why it matters even without a formal geological definition
Subjects
History
Sociology
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited