Jimmy Kimmel makes an emotional return to ABC : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Jimmy Kimmel makes an emotional return to ABC The comedian was suspended for nearly a week by ABC's parent company, Disney, before returning to airwaves on Tuesday night.
Television
'We have to speak out,' Jimmy Kimmel says in his late-night return
September 24, 20252:01 AM ET
Clare Lombardo
Jimmy Kimmel returns to late night after nearly week-long suspension
Listen
·
3:32
3:32
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5551277/nx-s1-9464977" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Jimmy Kimmel was suspended and off the air for nearly a week before returning Tuesday night with his late-night show, Jimmy Kimmel Live!
Randy Holmes/Disney
hide caption
toggle caption
Randy Holmes/Disney
"I'm not sure who had a weirder 48 hours — me, or the CEO of Tylenol," Jimmy Kimmel joked as he opened his show Tuesday night to a standing ovation after nearly a week away. In a monologue that turned emotional, the comedian choked up addressing the family of Charlie Kirk, the right-wing activist who was killed Sept. 10. "I've been hearing a lot about what I need to say and do tonight," he said. "And the truth is, I don't think what I have to say is going to make much of a difference … I have no illusions about changing anyone's mind."
Sponsor Message
Kimmel said, however, that he wanted to make one thing clear: "It was never my intention to make light of the murder of a young man." He said he meant it when he posted a message on Instagram sending love to Kirk's family after he was killed. And Kimmel said he understood why some folks were upset last week when he made comments about Kirk's assassination. But the host also warned about threats to free speech. "This show isn't important — what's important is that we get to live in a country that allows us to have a show like this," he said.
History
What Kimmel and Colbert can learn from ancient comedians who ticked off their leaders
The comedian acknowledged that bringing Jimmy Kimmel Live! back on the air puts Disney at risk, because, he said, the president "can't take a joke." "We have to speak out against it." After Kimmel's show taped — and about an hour before it aired on the East Coast — President Trump took to Truth Social to warn ABC. "I can't believe ABC Fake News gave Jimmy Kimmel his job back," Trump wrote. "The White House was told by ABC that his Show was cancelled! Something happened between then and now because his audience is GONE, and his 'talent' was never there. Why would they want someone back who does so poorly, who's not funny, and who puts the Network in jeopardy by playing 99% positive Democrat GARBAGE."
Sponsor Message
In his post, Trump also hinted at legal action. "He is yet another arm of the DNC and, to the best of my knowledge, that would be a major Illegal Campaign Contribution. I think we're going to test ABC out on this." Kimmel was suspended by ABC and Disney last Wednesday after the Trump administration took issue with his comments about the suspect in Charlie Kirk's killing. "We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them, and doing everything they can to score political points from it," Kimmel said on his show last Monday.
Media
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension shows power of FCC's Brendan Carr
Television
Legal experts say pulling Jimmy Kimmel from air may amount to illegal 'jawboning'
Brendan Carr, chair of the Federal Communications Commission, wasn't pleased that the comedian had characterized the suspect as a MAGA conservative. "We can do this the easy way or the hard way," he told podcaster Benny Johnson, taking aim at ABC and Disney. "These companies can find ways to take action on Kimmel or there is going to be additional work for the FCC ahead." Carr encouraged local stations to push back and refuse to run Jimmy Kimmel Live!  Nexstar and Sinclair, which operate ABC stations around the country, including in Nashville, Salt Lake City, New Orleans, Washington, D.C., Seattle, and Portland, Ore., both pulled the show off their airwaves. ABC and Disney then suspended Kimmel indefinitely. This week, even after Disney said the host would return to his regular 11:35 p.m. ET timeslot on ABC, Sinclair and Nexstar said they would continue preempting the show. Kimmel said that some of his own family couldn't watch on Tuesday. "Discussions with ABC are ongoing as we evaluate the show's potential return," Sinclair said in a Monday statement. Nexstar, which needs FCC approval for a multibillion-dollar merger with TEGNA, said on Tuesday that it stood by the decision to preempt Kimmel's show, "pending assurance that all parties are committed to fostering an environment of respectful, constructive dialogue in the markets we serve."
Politics
People are losing jobs due to social media posts about Charlie Kirk
Jimmy Kimmel
jimmy kimmel live
Charlie Kirk
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor