How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble now
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
comment
article
How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble now
Download PDF
COMMENT
24 September 2025
How universities came to be — and why they are in trouble now
What and who universities are for has changed considerably since the Second World War, leaving long-standing institutions ill-equipped to cope with current financial and political challenges.
By
Philip G. Altbach0
Philip G. Altbach
Philip G. Altbach is emeritus professor and founding director of the Center for International Higher Education at Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, USA.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Established in 1409, the buildings of Germany’s Leipzig University have evolved to cater for today’s students. Credit: Oleksandr Prykhodko/Alamy
Higher education across the world is facing a panoply of challenges that threaten to undermine or drastically alter its future. In the United States, universities are grappling with huge cuts to federal funding and pressure from the government to change their teaching and research agendas. In the United Kingdom, financial pressures are pushing some institutions to the brink of bankruptcy. Universities elsewhere, including in Germany and the Netherlands, face budget and research cuts. And in Japan and South Korea, private institutions are shutting their doors as ageing populations lead to declining numbers of students.The future of universitiesMeanwhile, technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), along with shifts towards remote learning in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, pose fundamental questions about how education should be delivered, and to whom. Across the world, governments with tight budgets and many competing demands are unable or unwilling to pay for the millions of students who want to attend universities.How did universities reach this point? Over the past 200 years, the role of these institutions has changed drastically — from elite establishments focused on teaching a tiny proportion of the population to vast, sprawling businesses offering both research and education for large numbers of students (see ‘A twentieth-century boom’). Here, I explore how this revolution in higher education underlies the problems that universities face today.Source: E. Schofer & J. W. Meyer Am. Sociol. Rev. 70, 898–920 (2005). Deep historyUniversities have their origins in religious or state-run institutions for training elite groups and specialists. Records go back as far as ad 427 in India, where Nalanda University, in what is now Bihar, developed Buddhist thought and taught skills such as medicine, mathematics and alchemy. In China, institutions that centred on the teachings of the philosopher Confucius first arose around 200 bc.The world’s oldest university still in operation is the University of Al-Qarawiyyin in Fez, Morocco. Established as a mosque in ad 869, it evolved over the following centuries to teach a broad range of subjects — from the Quran to grammar, medicine and astronomy.Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for goodThe birthplace of the Western academic conventions that the world’s universities now follow — formal lectures and official qualifications — was the University of Bologna in Italy. Founded in 1088, it came into being when groups of foreign students in the city began to pool funds to hire scholars to lecture them. With few students and limited curricula, it mainly prepared young people for careers in the church, law, medicine and government. The University of Oxford, UK, followed in 1096 and the University of Paris in 1150, although they were run by professors instead of students.The next structural shift came in 1810, when philosopher Wilhelm von Humboldt conceived the world’s first research-intensive university in Berlin, then the capital of Prussia. Aiming to bring cutting-edge science into universities and to advance the region’s development, he set up subject faculties and established graduate education programmes, in which researchers trained future scientists1. In doing so, he linked teaching and research for the first time. His innovation, which was funded by the state, contributed to the emergence of Prussia as a top scientific power. And following unification in 1871, also to that of Germany.This university model has shaped higher education ever since. The United States and Japan were among the first to adopt it2, beginning in the 1860s. By the early twentieth century, universities across Europe had broadly taken on the Humboldtian-style dual focus of cutting-edge research coupled with education of the next generation of elite minds. The founding of Peking University in 1898 brought a similar system to China.Thousands of students in Japan try to attend a lecture in a hall with a capacity for 1,000.Credit: Rodrigo Reyes Marin/AFLO/AlamyThe universities of the late-nineteenth century enrolled around 80,000 students in Europe and 49,000 in the United States — under 1% of each population (based on reported3 values and my estimates). But the Humboldtian approach proved eminently scalable, as the skills taught by universities became essential for rapidly expanding industrializing economies. By 1930, there were an estimated 650,000 students in universities in Europe and 1.1 million in the United States, reflecting the wider educational base in the country. Elite groups still dominated student numbers, but there were more opportunities for others — and, for the first time, women were enrolling in significant numbers.In much of the rest of the world, these developments came later. Areas under colonial domination had little higher education, and the universities that did exist mainly trained civil servants4. But the aftermath of the Second World War brought dramatic changes to the university system worldwide. The emergence of the United States as a global superpower, the rebuilding of Europe and Japan, the end of much of colonialism and the rise of nationalism in newly independent economies, and, around 1980, the emergence of China as a major power led to the establishment of new universities worldwide. In many Western countries, an expanding middle class demanded access to higher education, which was seen as key to social mobility, driving even higher student numbers.Mass expansionAs a result, university enrolments expanded dramatically5 from 6 million globally in 19506 to 264 million in 2023. By 2024, almost all countries, except those in sub-Saharan Africa, were enrolling at least 50% of students leaving secondary school in higher education of some form, although young people from lower social class groups and those from minority ethnic groups remain under-represented7. China’s growth in particular has been remarkable — student enrolment in 1978 was 860,000, but by 2018 this number had reached 45 million1. The changes came after China jettisoned the Soviet Union university model of free but ideologically restricted education, which was adopted after the People’s Republic of China was established in 1949, in favour of an academic structure modelled largely on the US system.Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they createThe remit of higher education expanded in the 1960s to cater to students’ diverse academic backgrounds and interests, with a growing focus on employment skills for rapidly changing economies. The United States pioneered vocational community colleges and teaching-focused state and private colleges and universities, alongside its Humboldtian-style flagship institutes. Other countries developed similar, multipart systems — Germany, for example, has vocational colleges and teaching-oriented universities of applied science alongside conventional research-focused universities, as do most European countries.The trend to increase access to education has placed severe financial burdens on governments worldwide. Politicians have faced a choice: maintain free (or very low cost) higher education for ever-increasing student numbers, often at the cost of academic quality; or impose tuition fees to pay for the expansion8. Only a few countries have chosen the first option. The rest have shifted the cost of education mostly to students, and instituted student-loan programmes to help pay the bills.The unwillingness of governments to pay for mass higher education has created a huge private higher-education sector — mainly geared towards high-demand fields such as business administration, with the exception of some elite, research-intensive institutes in the United States. One-third of global enrolments are now in private higher education9. In Japan and South Korea, 80% of students attend private universities; in the Philippines, this figure is about 50%9.An expanded role for research
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
Nature 645, 849-851 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03030-7
ReferencesKirby, W. C. Empires of Ideas (Harvard Univ. Press, 2022).
Google Scholar
Veysey, L. R. The Emergence of the American University (Univ. Chicago Press, 1965).
Google Scholar
Jarausch, K. H. in The Transformation of Higher Learning, 1860–1930 (ed. Jarausch, K. H.) 9–36 (Klett-Cotta, 1983).
Google Scholar
Altbach, P. G. High. Educ. 18, 9–29 (1989).Article
Google Scholar
Altbach, P. G., Reisberg, L. & Rumbley, L. E. Trends in Global Higher Education: Tracking an Academic Revolution (UNESCO, 2009).
Google Scholar
Gosende, R. & Gürüz, K. International Achievement and Technology Gap in the Global Knowledge Economy (Weatherhead Center for International Affairs, Harvard Univ., 2007); available at go.nature.com/4numpn9Marginson, S. High. Educ. 72, 413–434 (2016).Article
Google Scholar
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. Resourcing Higher Education: Challenges, Choices and Consequences (OECD, 2020).Levy, D. C. A World of Private Higher Education (Oxford Univ. Press, 2024).
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Competing Interests
The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles
The future of universities
Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for good
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
The great university shake-up: four charts show how global higher education is changing
Universities must move with the times: how six scholars tackle AI, mental health and more
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
How ‘organized looting and plunder’ drove Britain’s second scientific revolution
The early days of peer review: five insights from historical reports
Do universities serve their community?
Subjects
Education
History
Scientific community
Society
Latest on:
Education
History
Scientific community
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
Career Feature 24 SEP 25
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
World View 24 SEP 25
The future of universities: a Nature special report
News Feature 24 SEP 25
Fossil fight: how Raymond Dart countered some unfair criticism
News & Views 23 SEP 25
Bug bites convince UK doctor to support mosquito research centre
News & Views 09 SEP 25
Protests are infectious: mapping rural unrest in Revolutionary France
News & Views 09 SEP 25
Retractions can reshape scientists’ careers in unexpected ways
Nature Index 25 SEP 25
Mammoth challenge: why we called our de-extinction company Colossal Biosciences
Career Feature 25 SEP 25
It’s not wokeness — it’s human rights
Career Q&A 24 SEP 25
Jobs
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
The future of universities
Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for good
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
The great university shake-up: four charts show how global higher education is changing
Universities must move with the times: how six scholars tackle AI, mental health and more
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
How ‘organized looting and plunder’ drove Britain’s second scientific revolution
The early days of peer review: five insights from historical reports
Do universities serve their community?
Subjects
Education
History
Scientific community
Society
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited