I Dined at Chicago's Palmer House Hotel, a Gilded Age Landmark - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I dined at a Chicago hotel designed for Gilded Age elites. It felt like being inside a painting.
By
Kristine Villarroel
The preserved hotel lobby and bar nod at its Gilded Age history.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
2025-09-17T15:09:54Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I dined at the Lockwood Lobby Bar, the restaurant inside Chicago's Palmer House hotel.
The current Palmer House originally opened in 1873 and was rebuilt in 1925.
The grand lobby features French-inspired painted ceilings and 24-karat-gold Tiffany chandeliers.
When the city of Chicago burned down in 1871, the then-growing metropolis faced the daunting task of rebuilding its destroyed downtown.The period, being the peak of the Gilded Age, also brought enormous wealth … and plenty of business leaders eager to spend it on ostentatious, impressive designs.
The result? A city full of grand European-inspired buildings, like the historic Palmer House hotel.Originally built in 1870 as a wedding gift from businessman Potter Palmer to his wife, Bertha, the landmark hotel reopened after the fire in 1873, and it was rebuilt again in 1925.Aside from its history, ornate ballrooms, and over 1,000 rooms, the hotel's crown jewel is its lobby, a preserved masterpiece displaying French painted ceilings and gold-dipped Tiffany chandeliers.
Today, guests at the hotel can lounge around just like they did 100 ago, and the public can visit the bar and restaurant inside the hotel.I visited the historic hotel to see what it was like to step inside a piece of history. I spent the night dining like the many visitors who have stayed at the hotel, including US presidents and figures like Frank Sinatra and Oscar Wilde.
Here's what the experience was like.
The Palmer House hotel, originally built in the 1870s, is in the heart of downtown Chicago.
The current Palmer House hotel was built in 1873 and expanded in 1925.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
The Palmer House hotel has a long history in Chicago.From the first hotel's opening in 1870 and its total destruction soon after in the Great Chicago Fire of 1871 to its second location's construction in 1873, its expansion in 1925, and its rise to prominence in the 1920s as a hub for entertainment, Palmer House was Chicago staple throughout the peak of the Gilded Age and the Roaring Twenties.The hotel, which was bought by Hilton in 1945, is located in the Loop district of the city, right in the heart of the downtown and within minutes of art museums, event spaces, and the Instagram-famous Cloud Gate, also known as The Bean.The hotel is surrounded by other ornate Gilded Age buildings constructed during the city's rebuilding after the fire, and it became an icon of Chicago's resilience.It was deemed "the world's first fireproof hotel" after its 1873 construction.
Inside, the preserved lobby welcomes guests just as it did 100 years ago.
The Palmer House lobby houses a collection of ceiling frescos and Tiffany chandeliers.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
The hotel's grand lobby, which has been preserved since its construction, is inspired by Bertha Palmer's French heritage and her friendship with Claude Monet.The lobby features 21 ceiling frescos by French painter Louis Pierre Rigal depicting Greek mythology. They're illuminated by 24-karat-gold-dipped chandeliers designed by Louis Comfort Tiffany, per the hotel's website.
I sat next to the Empire Room for a perfect view of the lobby's preserved grandness.
The Empire Room served as the Palmer House's signature nightclub during the mid-century.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
The Empire Room, the hotel's signature ballroom, was added to the hotel as its fine-dining restaurant in 1933 for that year's World's Fair. Soon after, it was converted into a supper club, and it served as the hotel's signature nightclub, welcoming performers like Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland, Ella Fitzgerald, and Louis Armstrong.When visiting this historic place, my girlfriend and I chose to sit as close as possible to its magnificent decorations, like the Tiffany-designed bronze winged angels statues on the grand staircase leading to the Empire Room.I spent my night taking in the views with every sip and every bite.
I opted for informal seating with a view of the historic lobby over a proper restaurant table.
Only the bar, balcony, and lobby seating have a view of the preserved lobby.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
In order to enjoy the beauty of the lobby, we sat at the low lobby tables rather than the other options available: These included the bar, upstairs at balcony tables, or inside the Lockwood Restaurant, which was located in a separate, far less ornate room.Despite sitting at the Lockwood Lobby Bar instead of the restaurant, the server allowed us to order from the restaurant's full menu.
The night was soundtracked by romantic live music.
The hotel puts on live music for patrons from Thursday through Sunday.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
While dining, guests can enjoy the live music the hotel puts on from Thursday through Sunday. The live guitarist performed acoustic instrumental versions of modern songs, like Ed Sheeran's "Thinking Out Loud" and Lady Gaga's "Shallow."While the live music added to the space's romantic ambience, realizing I was hearing a slowed-down, stripped version of "Despacito" did snap me out of my Gilded Age fantasy just a bit.
The grand space was visually littered by TV screens.
The preserved lobby features three TV screens across the space.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
The three TV screens mounted throughout the lobby also snapped me out of the old-timey bubble, although I understand their purpose, especially for the many hotel guests who use the space as a lobby.Nothing says functional preservation like watching a football-game screen next to a gold Tiffany chandelier on a marble wall.
The cocktail menu offered a range of tropical summer drinks and modern takes on classic cocktails.
I was surprised by the comparatively low prices, given the hotel's grand and luxurious space.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
Looking at the menu, I debated between getting a tropical drink from the seasonal summer menu or a crafted house drink. Many of the latter offered modern takes on classic cocktails like old fashioneds, martinis, and Manhattans. They ranged from $16 to $18.Given the hotel's luxurious touches, the prices for drinks and food seemed low to me, but if I considered the prices at a regular hotel bar, they made more sense.Despite being beautifully preserved and having a fascinating history, the Palmer House today is a rather mid-scale hotel. The hotel's 1,641 rooms are renovated and furnished in a standard contemporary fashion, and room prices per night are often a standard $250.Sitting at the lobby, I noticed my slightly overdressed vibe better matched the ceiling frescos and gold chandeliers than the rest of the guests, many of whom sat around the lobby in T-shirts and sneakers or with their suitcases.
We started with some old-timey drinks.
The Palmer House martini and Manhattan were sweeter and more dimensional than the cocktails' traditional versions.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
I eventually decided to go for a classic vibe, in honor of the space.The Palmer House martini, unlike a traditional martini made largely with either gin or vodka and a wash of vermouth, more closely resembled a spritz, combining citrusy mandarin vodka with sweet plum bitters and crisp Moscato wine.The Palmer House blackberry Manhattan was also a slightly sweeter, more palatable version of the classic cocktail it honored. It featured plum bitters and switched the traditional sweet vermouth for an amaro.The drinks, which were $16 and $17, respectively, were nicely crafted and felt elevated. I enjoyed how they offered a modern and unique take on the classic cocktails that might've been served around the time the first Palmer House opened.
The Margherita flatbread was a tasty start to the meal.
The Margherita flatbread was tasty, cheesy, and filling — worthy of being a main entrée.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
To start the dinner, I ordered the Margherita flatbread, one of the appetizers on the menu. Topped with tasty tomato sauce, balsamic-coated tomatoes, and fresh basil, the cheesy flatbread felt like an elevated version of a traditional pizza.The $16 appetizer was filling. Even after splitting it between the two of us, most of the flatbread ended up in a to-go box at the end of the night (and tasted great out of the air fryer the next morning).
The orecchiette dish was a highlight of my night, apart from the stunning setting.
The dish featured grilled chicken topped with ramp pesto on a bed of creamy leek pasta.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
As my main meal, I went for the orecchiette dish, which featured grilled chicken breast on a bed of creamy pasta featuring guanciale-and-leek sauce and Broccolini, topped with Calabrian chili breadcrumbs and ramp pesto.The flavorful dish tasted fresh, silky, and creamy. The standout element for me was the ramp pesto, which amplified the freshness of the dish and showcased a regional ingredient.The dish made me think of how chefs throughout Palmer House's history would've used seasonal ingredients, back when you could only eat whatever produce was in season in the region you were in.
We topped off our dinner with Palmer House's iconic invention: the brownie.
The Lockwood Restaurant serves a brownie made with the original 1893 recipe created at the Palmer House.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
I couldn't visit this historic hotel without trying its most important contribution to the world: the brownie.Created for the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition, or the Chicago World's Fair, at the request of Bertha Palmer, the original recipe for the chocolate brownie — although they didn't call it that — was crafted to be easily transported in a lunchbox. Per the hotel's website, Bertha Palmer had asked the hotel's chef to craft a dessert that would be "more unique than a piece of pie or cake" and "like a cookie, but denser and more decadent with chocolate."Today, the Lockwood Restaurant serves the same original brownie recipe, dressed up on the plate with a chocolate topping, strawberries, and brownie crumbs. It costs $13.I bit into a slice of history, and it was nothing like a brownie I could get anywhere else. The brownie was nutty and tart-like, while also being very chocolate-rich and fudgy. Topped with finely chopped walnuts and apricot preserves, it felt luxurious and more dimensional than the boxed brownies I'm used to.
Dining here felt like being inside a painting. I'll be coming back whenever I'm in the city.
I loved my experience at the Palmer House, and I'll be returning whenever I'm in the city.
Kristine Villarroel/Business Insider
Even though it is and functions as a hotel lobby, the Lockwood Lobby Bar was an amazing and unique experience that I wouldn't be able to recreate anywhere else.Sitting under the French frescos and the Tiffany chandeliers felt like stepping into a Gilded Age painting, or like dining inside a museum exhibit.Although not being a hotel guest made me feel like a bit of an outsider, its casual vibe provided a sharp contrast with places with dress codes or hard-to-get reservations. The lower-than-expected prices felt comparable to other bars in the city, but this one came with beautiful surroundings.I'll definitely be heading back, and whenever I'm in Chicago, this will be a go-to spot.
Recommended video
Travel
Restaurants
Food
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account