Entertainment - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Diddy cites his 'extraordinary life' in long shot bid for freedom next month
3 min read
Inside the relationship of billionaire venture capitalist Josh Kushner and model Karlie Kloss, the power couple with unconventional ties to Trump
11 min read
Jimmy Kimmel is back after a huge backlash. Here's what comedians, politicians, and celebs are saying about his return.
Jimmy Kimmel's return to air was met with praise from prominent figures like comedian Ben Stiller and California Gov. Gavin Newsom.
5 min read
Matthew McConaughey says one furniture swap in the bedroom strengthened his marriage
"I wake up one morning. I'm looking over there, and Camilla's like a football field away, man," Matthew McConaughey said.
3 min read
400 celebrities — including 4 'Disney Legends' — sign letter defending Jimmy Kimmel
Pedro Pascal, Billy Crystal, Jamie Lee Curtis, and Mark Ruffalo are among those who added their name to the letter.
7 min read
Sinclair says it won't air Jimmy Kimmel on its stations after Disney announced his return
Sinclair, which owns ABC affiliate stations, said it would not be returning Jimmy Kimmel to the air on its stations after Disney's announcement.
2 min read
Jimmy Kimmel is returning to ABC on Tuesday, Disney says
"Jimmy Kimmel Live!" will return to ABC on Tuesday after the late-night host's comments on Charlie Kirk's death caused the network to pull the show.
4 min read
Callie Ahlgrim
Whoopi Goldberg and her 'The View' co-hosts finally broke their silence on Jimmy Kimmel's suspension
"The View" addressed "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" getting yanked by ABC after two episodes of noticeable silence. The two shows share a network.
4 min read
13 famous people who became highly successful after 50
Some of the most successful businesses today were started by people well into middle age, like these celebrities and entrepreneurs.
7 min read
Photos show how Meghan Markle's style has evolved over the years
Meghan Markle's fashion has transformed since she was an actor and senior royal. Here's a look at the Duchess of Sussex's outfits over the years.
11 min read
Tom Holland was injured after a stunt gone wrong on the set of 'Spider-Man: Brand New Day,' reports say
Tom Holland suffered a concussion on the set of "Spider-Man: Brand New Day." Filming of the highly anticipated 2026 release was stopped.
2 min read
Callie Ahlgrim
Taylor Swift's new album 'The Life of a Showgirl' is coming this fall — here's everything we know
Taylor Swift's new album, "The Life of a Showgirl," will arrive in October with 12 new songs and a theatrical "release party" event.
8 min read
I made the delicious chicken and bread salad from Meghan Markle's show. It taught me how to be a better home cook.
Chef Samin Nosrat shows Meghan Markle how to make a chicken and bread salad on "With Love, Meghan." The recipe features a passion fruit vinaigrette.
9 min read
'Him' director Justin Tipping explains the movie's gory ending, and how it was almost even more terrifying
"Him" director Justin Tipping explains what happens to Cade and how he pulled off the movie's bloody ending.
4 min read
Miss USA has a new CEO, but that didn't happen without a shakeup. BI broke down the saga.
In this Saturday edition of Business Insider Today, we're talking about the CEO shakeup at Miss USA and what's next for the pageant.
7 min read
5 to 9
How Ciara spends her 5-9 — from jogging in NYC to romantic date nights with Russell Wilson
Ciara told Business Insider that longevity is a big priority because she wants to share moments with her kids and her husband Russell Wilson.
7 min read
Late-night hosts reacted to Jimmy Kimmel's suspension with the sharpest tools in their kit: comedy and defiance
Stephen Colbert, Jon Stewart, Seth Meyers, Jimmy Fallon, and Conan O'Brien have all weighed in on Kimmel's suspension.
5 min read
James Dixon is about to be the busiest guy in late-night
James Dixon represents Jimmy Kimmel and is hard at work trying to get his show back on the air.
3 min read
There's one Le Labo scent you should be wearing for fall, and it's not Santal 33
Le Labo is known for its unique scents, including Santal 33. The latter isn't the only option for fall, though. Thé Matcha 26 is arguably even better.
3 min read
The most dramatic thing about 'Megalopolis' isn't the movie — it's Shia LaBeouf fighting with Francis Ford Coppola in a behind-the-scenes doc
In "Megadoc," director Mike Figgis chronicles the drama between Shia LaBeouf and Francis Ford Coppola while making "Megalopolis."
5 min read
28 of the best and worst looks Melania Trump has worn as first lady
Melania Trump's best looks as first lady balance professional style and chicness, but she has also worn some controversial outfits.
14 min read
Callie Ahlgrim
Red dress, red politics? Why Sydney Sweeney's Emmys dress struck a nerve
The controversy over Sydney Sweeney's "MAGA red" dress at the Emmy Awards speaks to the color's charged role in the current political climate.
7 min read
Tommy Hilfiger says 'manifestation' was part of his formula to build a fashion empire
"Dreams come true, and you can make your dreams come true if you manifest," Tommy Hilfiger said.
3 min read
'The View' is known for covering hot topics. Jimmy Kimmel's suspension wasn't one of them.
The hosts of "The View" didn't discuss ABC's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel's late-night show following comments the host made about Charlie Kirk's death.
4 min read
Callie Ahlgrim
'Lost' co-creator Damon Lindelof says he won't work with Disney if Jimmy Kimmel's suspension isn't lifted
Damon Lindelof joins Hollywood in supporting Jimmy Kimmel amid ABC's suspension, saying he won't work for Disney unless the late-night host returns.
3 min read
Justin Baldoni seeks unsealing of a Wayfarer exec's '2 dead bodies' rant against Blake Lively, Ryan Reynolds
A new Blake Lively v. Justin Baldoni scuffle concerns Wayfarer exec Steve Sarowitz's secretly-recorded 2024 rant against Lively and Ryan Reynolds.
3 min read
The most daring outfits Dakota Johnson has ever worn, from see-through dresses to mismatched shoes
Since the start of her acting career, Dakota Johnson has consistently displayed a chic yet daring fashion sense at red-carpet events.
5 min read
Melania Trump stuck to her go-to neutral outfits for her UK visit, with one exception
Melania Trump wore an array of neutral-toned outfits during her visit to the UK, aside from one bright yellow gown from Carolina Herrera.
4 min read
Every TV show ending in 2025, from 'Stranger Things' to 'The Summer I Turned Pretty'
Catch up quickly on key TV show cancellations and finales in 2025, including "Stranger Things" and "And Just Like That" with our up-to-date list.
26 min read
5 things that can ruin a wedding for guests, according to a professional planner
Pro wedding planner Beth Helmstetter told BI couples should secure room blocks and be mindful of the seating chart to help keep guests happy.
4 min read
Miss USA's new CEO is bringing 3 big changes to the 2025 pageant — including how contestants are judged
Thom Brodeur, the new president and CEO of Miss USA, told Business Insider that some major rule changes are coming to the 2025 pageant in October.
6 min read
Emily Stewart
Inside the sneaky rise of 'ghost tickets' flooding StubHub and SeatGeek
Ticket speculators are listing fake "ghost tickets" on StubHub and SeatGeek. Unsuspecting concertgoers and World Cup fans are getting duped.
12 min read
Kate Middleton and Melania Trump took different approaches to white-tie fashion for a state banquet at Windsor Castle
Melania Trump and Kate Middleton both wore eye-catching dresses for a state banquet at Windsor Castle, though the first lady chose a bolder color.
2 min read
These salacious, bite-sized soaps have become a $1.3 billion business in the US
Owl & Co. estimates short-drama apps like ReelShort and DramaBox will make $3 billion this year globally outside China, nearly triple last year.
3 min read
I'm a personal stylist. Here are 7 things I'd absolutely buy at Gap right now — and 3 styles I'd skip.
As a personal stylist, I went to Gap for fall wardrobe staples I can buy right now. I found great jeans and sweaters, but a few pieces I'd skip.
7 min read
Stylists share 10 items you should get rid of from your fall wardrobe
From low-rise skinny jeans to small purses, stylists shared which clothes and accessories people can remove from their closets this fall season.
5 min read
Elizabeth Banks, 51, credits 3 everyday habits for keeping her youthful
"I've really come to terms with the fact that I need seven to eight hours of sleep," Elizabeth Banks said.
3 min read
Where to watch Love Island Games: Stream Season 2 anywhere
Let the games begin. We'll show you how to watch the second season of the Love Island spinoff.
6 min read
Belly is not the villain of 'The Summer I Turned Pretty.' This toxic VC bro is.
For all the chatter about Belly being the real villain of "The Summer I Turned Pretty," that's actually not the case. It's Jeremiah and Conrad's dad Adam.
5 min read
Robert Redford sold his last California property in 2024 for $4.65 million to spend more time in New Mexico and Utah
Actor Robert Redford and his wife Sibylle Szaggars Redford sold several properties recently.
3 min read
Celebrities who died in 2025
Here are the stars who died this year, including Robert Redford, Ozzy Osbourne, Giorgio Armani, Michelle Trachtenberg, and Brian Wilson.
25 min read
Exclusive
Miss USA has been in crisis. New CEO Thom Brodeur wants to restore the pageant to its former glory.
Thom Brodeur is the third CEO of the Miss USA pageant in five years. He sat down with Business Insider for his first interview since taking over.
10 min read
10 of the most essential Robert Redford films
Robert Redford, who died on Tuesday, left a mark on cinema that will be felt for decades to come. These are some of his most important films.
7 min read
Robert Redford has died at 89. See his career in photos.
Robert Redford died at home "at Sundance in the mountains of Utah — the place he loved, surrounded by those he loved," according to his publicist.
6 min read
The best and worst looks pro athletes have worn this year
Throughout the year, pro athletes have attended red-carpet events in stunning looks. A few times, though, they've missed the mark with their fashion.
4 min read
Julianne Moore says her ideal day off still involves 'a little bit of work'
"But I think, the more life you've accrued, the more precious it becomes," Julianne Moore said.
3 min read
Diddy hopes some of his former escorts will help him at sentencing
His legal team intends to argue that some of these "entertainers" gave prosecutors never-revealed interviews that actually help the defense.
4 min read
Prince Harry just saw King Charles for the first time in 19 months. Here's a timeline of his and Meghan Markle's strained relationship with the royals.
Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's relationship with the royals is strained. On September 10, Harry saw King Charles for the first time in over a year.
32 min read
Stars weren't afraid to have fun with their post-Emmys looks. See 13 of the best after-party outfits.
Stars kept the Emmys celebrations going at Sunday night's after-parties. Many of them swapped their red carpet looks for more playful outfits.
5 min read
Justin Baldoni loses scheduling bid to depose Taylor Swift in legal battle with Blake Lively
Justin Baldoni had sought an extension to depose Taylor Swift, saying the star was too busy to meet before the September 30 deposition deadline.
4 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.