iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared the two ultra-slim phones, and here's the winner | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared the two ultra-slim phones, and here's the winner
Apple and Samsung are both chasing ultra-thin, lightweight designs this year - but who did it better? Here's my early verdict.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 17, 2025 at 2:30 a.m. PT
CNET/Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The market of ultra-thin and lightweight phones is officially at its tipping point, as Apple threw its hat into the ring this month with the new iPhone Air.The newest and arguably most innovative iPhone features the company's slimmest design yet, measuring at around 5.6mm thick. How did the folks at Cupertino achieve such a record? By opting for a smaller battery, fewer cameras, and some design elements that disrupt the norm, especially by iPhone standards. In other words, this is a totally different beast.Also: iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winnerIts closest competitor, the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge, is another one. The S25 Edge follows a similar design philosophy, serving users a burdenless hardware experience with some questionable omissions. Between the two phones, which one should you buy? That's what I'm here to answer.SpecificationsFeatureApple iPhone AirSamsung Galaxy S25 EdgeStarting price$999$1,099Display size6.5"6.7"ProcessorA19 ProQualcomm Snapdragon 8 EliteFront camera18MP Center Stage, Dual Capture12MP ultrawideRear cameras48MP Fusion camera200MP Main, 12MP ultrawideBattery2,800mAh (estimated)3,900mAhStorage256GB, 512GB, 1TB256GB, 512GBWeight165g162gFinishesSky Blue, Light Gold, Cloud White, Space BlackTitanium Icyblue, Jetblack, and Silver
You should buy the iPhone Air if...
Apple/ZDNET1. You want the less risky thin phoneWhat do I mean by that? For starters, the iPhone Air starts at $999, undercutting the S25 Edge by $100, so it's already an investment that should be easier to manage. That money gets you 256GB of internal storage (the same as the Samsung), Apple's repubtable software update policy that keeps the phone feature-relevant for years down the road, and an iOS experience that has proven reliable for app support and fluidity.Also: Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: Here are the main differencesIt goes without saying that if you're a current iPhone user, the iPhone Air will be the better choice of the two, with benefits like easier data transfer (including those pesky contacts that never save properly) and access to a familiar suite of iOS apps like iMessage and FaceTime.Apple's retail presence is also much stronger than Samsung's, with multiple stores centralized across popular cities in the U.S. (and outside) for smoother servicing.
2. You're frequently outdoors (and want the best view)Apple says the iPhone Air can reach a peak brightness of 3,000 nits, beating the S25 Edge's 2,600-nit rating. That simply means the iPhone will appear brighter when outdoors or under intense lighting, making the device easier to read, browse, and navigate.Also: Every iPhone 17 model compared: Should you buy the base model, Air, Pro, or Max?As far as other display specs go, the iPhone Air competes squarely with the S25 Edge, from the 120Hz display to the durability of the glass layering. You can also argue that the iPhone's smaller 6.5-inch screen size makes it easier to wield and operate with one hand compared to the S25 Edge's 6.7-inch screen.
Buy the iPhone Air (preorder on 9/12) View now at Apple
You should buy the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge if...
Kerry Wan/ZDNET1. You want a more flexible camera systemWhile both manufacturers had limited form factors to build cameras around, Samsung offers more creative freedom with the S25 Edge. That starts with the 200MP main sensor (compared to the iPhone Air's 48MP), which enables high-resolution images when cropped or captured in RAW. Then you factor in the additional 12MP ultrawide sensor that stretches the width of the shots you can take. I expect Apple to heavily market the iPhone Air's "Fusion Camera," but trust me when I say that no artificial modifications will ever beat pure, physical optics.2. You want a more feature-packed phoneAndroid phones have always been more functional than iPhones, and that holds true for the S25 Edge. Compared to the iPhone Air, the Samsung handset features a more expansive AI toolkit, backed by both Galaxy AI and Google's Gemini services. That includes browsing tools like Circle to Search, a more extensive image editing suite, system-wide translation capabilities, and more.The S25 Edge also supports physical SIM cards, while the iPhone Air is eSIM only, no matter which region you purchase the handset from. This may be a deal breaker for frequent travelers who require the use of local SIM cards or customers who simply don't want to digitize their SIM cards.Also: Finally, a Samsung phone that I'd put my S25 Ultra away for (especially at this price)For audio-listeners, the S25 Edge packs a stereo speaker system versus the iPhone's mono audio channel. It'll be very difficult for the iPhone to output a louder and richer sound than the Galaxy, even if Apple embeds some screen vibration technology to help amplify the audio.Lastly, the S25 Edge has a larger 3,900mAh battery compared to the iPhone Air's estimated 2,800mAh capacity. Still, those numbers don't tell the full endurance story, so we'll have to test the iPhone to see exactly how optimized the device is.
Buy the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge View now at Samsung
Alternatives to consider
BEST IPHONE ALTERNATIVE iPhone 16 Plus The iPhone 16 Pro has an A18 chip and support for Apple Intelligence.
View at Apple
BEST SAMSUNG ALTERNATIVE Samsung Galaxy S25 Plus It's not as thin as the Edge model, but the S25 Plus does have an extra telephoto lens and a larger battery, making it a fantastic alternative if you're leaning toward Samsung.
View at Samsung Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why Apple's new iPhone Air looks so much like an Android (it's not all in your head)
Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I tried both flagships, and there's a clear winner
I replaced my Samsung S25 Edge with the iPhone Air - and my buying advice has changed
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use