Photo: Tea offered by Sudan civil war survivors : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Photo: Tea offered by Sudan civil war survivors Far-Flung Postcards is a weekly series in which NPR's international team shares moments from their lives and work around the world.
Special Series Far-Flung Postcards
Greetings from Khartoum, Sudan, where those with the least offer their guests the most
July 30, 202510:24 AM ET
Emmanuel Akinwotu
Jackie Lay/NPR
Far-Flung Postcards is a weekly series in which NPR's international team shares moments from their lives and work around the world. In April, I visited the Sudanese capital, Khartoum, a few months after it was recaptured by the Sudanese army. After more than two years of civil war, the scale of obliteration was utterly tragic. One of Africa's most vibrant cities — which I'd first visited in 2020 — had become a shell of itself. Most of Khartoum was eerily empty. But a few people remained. Some had survived a brutal occupation by the paramilitary group at war with the army. Others — among more than 6 million people displaced from Khartoum — were just beginning to return.
Sponsor Message
For about five days, my Sudanese colleagues — journalist Ammar Awad and photographer Faiz Abubakr — and I met as many Khartoum residents as we could. Some had been tortured, or lost family members, or belongings. They welcomed us into their homes on the verge of collapse, in buildings hammered by artillery and gunfire.
We were constantly confronted with a kind of stubborn, irrepressible hospitality. Each of these interviews generally began with them offering Sudanese coffee or tea, the coffee often black and dense, the tea
black or mahogany-red, sometimes with cinnamon leaves.  Glass after glass, interview after interview. After two or three — my ideal maximum for a day — this deluge of tea and coffee became testing.
Sometimes my polite refusal was enough. Other times, it was swatted away with the arrival of yet another tray — another set of glasses and a bowl of sugar, sometimes served with dates and water. After a few days, I started to take pictures of this gently relentless ritual of kindness — offered by people fortunate to survive the war with enough to sustain themselves, and by others left with virtually nothing. See more photos from around the world: Greetings from Moscow, Russia, where Lenin's tomb attracts a new surge of visitorsGreetings from New Delhi, India, where performing monkeys spark delight — and ambivalenceGreetings from Damascus, Syria, where a crowded bar welcomed post-Assad revelersGreetings from Alishan, Taiwan, whose red cypress forests offer timeless beautyGreetings from Odesa, Ukraine, where a Black Sea beach offers respite from warGreetings from Shenyang, China, where workers sort AI data in 'Severance'-like waysGreetings from Palmyra, Syria, with its once-grand hotel named for a warrior queenGreetings from Mexico City, where these dogs ride a bus to and from schoolGreetings from the Galápagos Islands, where the blue-footed booby shows its colorsGreetings from Afrin, Syria, where Kurds danced their hearts out to celebrate springGreetings from Dharamshala, India, where these Tibetan kids were having the best time
Sudan
tea
coffee
khartoum
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only