Best Costco deals to compete with Amazon Prime Day 2025: My favorite sales so far | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Best Costco deals to compete with Amazon Prime Day 2025: Top sales ahead of October
October Prime Day is coming, but you can find great deals at Costco right now.
Written by
Alison DeNisco Rayome, Managing EditorManaging Editor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 7:30 a.m. PT
Hisense 100-inch U6 Series 4K TV | for $1,899 (save $700)
Hisense 100-inch U6 Series 4K TV
for $1,899 (save $700)
View now View at Costco Lenovo IdeaPad Slim 3i 15-inch Touchscreen Laptop | for $499 (save $270)
Lenovo IdeaPad Slim 3i 15-inch Touchscreen Laptop
for $499 (save $270)
View now View at Costco AirPods Pro 2 | for $149 (save $50)
AirPods Pro 2
for $149 (save $50)
View now View at Costco MacBook Air M4 13-inch | for $799 (save $150)
MacBook Air M4 13-inch
for $799 (save $150)
View now View at Costco Nespresso Vertuo Next Deluxe | for $139 (save $40)
Nespresso Vertuo Next Deluxe
for $139 (save $40)
View now View at Costco
iPad 11-inch | for $299 (save $40)
iPad 11-inch
for $299 (save $40)
View now View at Costco Jackery 1000 Plus Solar Generator with Mini 100W Solar Panel | for $649 (save $150)
Jackery 1000 Plus Solar Generator with Mini 100W Solar Panel
for $649 (save $150)
View now View at Costco
Show more (2 items)
October Prime Day (also known as Prime Big Deal Days) is coming up on Oct. 7-8, but Amazon won't be the only place to find discounts. Last year, Costco ran a Member Savings Days event during the same timeframe as October Prime Day, and we may see something similar this year. Also: The best October Prime Day deals live nowCostco is a membership-based wholesale retailer. While non-members can shop with a guest account online, only members can access the full savings for the store's sales events (non-members can expect a 5% markup on purchases, and some deals are members-only). Memberships start at $65 a year (and you can sometimes find membership deals through third-party sites).I'm a commerce editor and, personally, a major Costco fan. I'll help you search through the sales and find the best deals possible ahead of October sales. These are my favorite Costco deals right now.Find Prime Day dealsBest Costco deals to compete with Prime Day 2025
Hisense 100-inch U6 Series 4K TV for $1,899 (save $700)
Amazon/ZDNET
Current price: $1,899Original price: $2,599If you've been looking to upgrade to a cinematic 100-inch TV and are on a budget, this Hisense model is a great choice. We've tested several Hisense TVs, and they've become a trusted option.
Show more
View now at Costco
Lenovo IdeaPad Slim 3i 15-inch Touchscreen Laptop for $499 (save $270)
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNET
Current price: $499Original price: $769ZDNET laptop tester Kyle Kucharski highly recommends the Lenovo Slim 3i laptop -- it "offers great value on a budget, with a full-size keyboard, solid port selection, and an affordable price tag," he writes.
Show more
View now at Costco
SimpliSafe Security System (13 piece) for $199 (save $150)
Simplisafe/ZDNET
Current price: $199Original price: $349This highly-rated SimpliSafe security system comes with a base station, two outdoor cameras, a keypad, 8 entry sensors, and a motion sensor, at a big price cut.
Show more
AirPods Pro 2 for $149 (save $50)
Jada Jones/ZDNET
Current price: $149Original price: $199Apple's last-gen AirPods Pro model gets a price cut at Costco after the release of the AirPods Pro 3. If you don't want to pay full price, the Pro 2 is still an excellent choice, featuring strong noise cancellation and the ability to act as a hearing aid.Also: AirPods Pro 3 vs. AirPods Pro 2: What to know before rushing to upgrade
Show more
View now at Costco
MacBook Air M4 13-inch for $799 (save $150)
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNET
Current price: $799Original price: $949The latest MacBook Air M4 is our tested pick for the best MacBook you can buy right now. It's a lightweight laptop, and the upgraded M4 Air processor is fast and battery-efficient.
Show more
View now at Costco
Nespresso Vertuo Next Deluxe for $139 (save $40)
Costco/ZDNET
Current price: $139Original price: $179The popular Nespresso Vertuo Next Deluxe lets you brew a single cup of coffee or espresso at the push of a button. This deal includes the machine bundled with an Aeroccino 3 milk frother, 32 coffee and espresso capsules, and a $20 coffee voucher for Nespresso.com.
Show more
View now at Costco
iPad 11-inch for $299 (save $40)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $299Original price: $339The 11-inch iPad (11th gen) is our tested pick for the best iPad you can buy right now, offering nearly all of the tablet's best features at an affordable price.
Show more
View now at Costco
Jackery 1000 Plus Solar Generator with Mini 100W Solar Panel for $649 (save $150)
Greg Nichols
Current price: $649Original price: $799We've tested numerous Jackery portable power stations, and like this versatile, all-in-one unit and included solar panel for camping or using as a backup power station for emergencies at home.Also: The best portable power stations
Show more
View now at Costco
FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025? This year, October Prime Day will run from Tuesday, Oct. 7 through Wednesday, Oct. 8. It will be a two-day sale, compared to four days for July Does Costco also hold a sale for Prime Day? Costco doesn't hold a specific sale event to compete with the October Prime Big Deal Days sale. In July, it held a Member Savings Days event the same week as Prime Day. But you can expect to find the store's usual monthly price markdowns during this time.How did we choose these Costco deals?ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops. We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now: Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers: Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsTarget deals
Show more
Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best Sam's Club deals to compete with October Prime Day 2025: My favorite 10+ deals
Best early Target Circle Week deals to compete with Prime Day: I'm tracking 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 55+ of our favorite discounts before October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use