Media - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Business
Media
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Why this startup founder scrapped her dating app to build a LinkedIn rival powered by AI
4 min read
Dan DeFrancesco
Jimmy Kimmel's return doesn't mean the end of Disney's problems
7 min read
Jon Stewart said Jimmy Kimmel's return shows Americans must 'fight like hell for this constitutional republic'
Jon Stewart celebrated Jimmy Kimmel's show being brought back, saying Americans need to "fight like hell" for their right to free speech.
2 min read
Stephen Colbert welcomes Jimmy Kimmel back on air by joking that now he's the only one getting canceled
Colbert, whose show is set to be canceled in May,
said he was once again the "only martyr in late night," after Kimmel's show was reinstated.
3 min read
Sinclair says it won't air Jimmy Kimmel on its stations after Disney announced his return
Sinclair, which owns ABC affiliate stations, said it would not be returning Jimmy Kimmel to the air on its stations after Disney's announcement.
2 min read
Jimmy Kimmel is returning to ABC on Tuesday, Disney says
"Jimmy Kimmel Live!" will return to ABC on Tuesday after the late-night host's comments on Charlie Kirk's death caused the network to pull the show.
4 min read
Why Facebook thinks AI can help you land better dates
Facebook Dating, the company's dating app experience, is rolling out a new AI feature. Here's how it works.
3 min read
How TikTok's deal to stay in the US will work, according to the White House
TikTok US is set to sell to an investor consortium that will retrain its algorithm and keep Americans connected to users in other parts of the world.
2 min read
John Oliver says Jimmy Kimmel's suspension is a canary in a coal mine for free speech
John Oliver said Kimmel's show getting suspended was the "latest canary in the coal mine" about free speech in the US.
2 min read
Y Combinator founder Paul Graham says he canceled Disney+ after Kimmel suspension: 'This is a way to be heard'
Y Combinator founder Paul Graham says he canceled his Disney+ subscription, joining fans boycotting the company over Jimmy Kimmel's suspension.
2 min read
'We vote with our dollars': People are boycotting Disney and canceling their streaming subscriptions
"If Disney's going to cave to Trump, then Disney doesn't get my money," one former Disney+ subscriber who canceled told Business Insider.
6 min read
Ex-Disney CEO Michael Eisner blasts the Kimmel suspension: 'Where has all the leadership gone?'
Former Disney CEO Michael Eisner sounded off on ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel's show, in a thinly veiled shot at current leader Bob Iger.
2 min read
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension spreads fear through late-night TV about more targets
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension has provoked dread in the late-night world. Hollywood writers rallied against Disney and Trump.
4 min read
Exclusive
Shopify pulls website template after food influencer Molly Baz calls it a 'sicko AI version' of her
Shopify did not comment on whether AI was used to create the template. AI image generation has sparked concerns about dupes among some creators.
3 min read
Peter Kafka
Jimmy Kimmel could flee ABC for the internet. That wouldn't solve his problems.
Jimmy Kimmel should just leave ABC and go online, people have been saying this week. But it's not that easy: Donald Trump can find you there, too.
3 min read
Late-night hosts reacted to Jimmy Kimmel's suspension with the sharpest tools in their kit: comedy and defiance
Stephen Colbert, Jon Stewart, Seth Meyers, Jimmy Fallon, and Conan O'Brien have all weighed in on Kimmel's suspension.
5 min read
TikTok inches closer to a sale after Trump's call with Xi. Here's a timeline of the app's fight to stay in the US.
On Friday, Trump and Xi spoke on the phone and inched closer to approving a TikTok deal. Trump has paused the enforcement of a ban until December.
8 min read
Bill Simmons advises Jimmy Kimmel on how to break up with Disney, a decade after his own dramatic exit
Bill Simmons spoke out about ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel. The popular podcaster said his long-time friend can break free from broadcast.
2 min read
Dan DeFrancesco
Everything you need to know about what's going on with Jimmy Kimmel and the war on late-night
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension over his comments regarding Charlie Kirk has elicited strong reactions and raised questions about the state of the media.
3 min read
Jimmy Fallon says he hopes Jimmy Kimmel gets to go back on ABC
Fallon called Kimmel a "decent, funny, and loving guy," and said he hoped the latter's show would be reinstated.
3 min read
Hollywood reacts to 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' being suspended
Hollywood celebrities, including Ben Stiller, Wanda Sykes, and Jean Smart, are voicing support for Jimmy Kimmel after his show got pulled by ABC.
8 min read
Seth Meyers says Jimmy Kimmel's suspension is a 'big moment' for democracy
"Trump promised to end government censorship and bring back free speech, and he's doing the opposite," Meyers said on his late-night show.
3 min read
Jon Stewart delivered a stinging, sarcasm-laden defense of Jimmy Kimmel
In full satire mode, Stewart laid into Trump, calling him America's "great leader" and criticizing his administration's stance on free speech.
3 min read
I went to a protest at Disney over Jimmy Kimmel's suspension. It wasn't just about one comedian.
Hundreds of people showed up at Disney Studios to protest Jimmy Kimmel being pulled off the air, but the protest was about a lot more than that.
6 min read
Stephen Colbert calls Jimmy Kimmel getting yanked off-air a 'blatant assault on the freedom of speech'
"Well, you know what my community values are, buster? Freedom of speech," Colbert said in his opening monologue on Thursday.
3 min read
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension fits squarely into the FCC's new pressure playbook
ABC suspended Jimmy Kimmel after FCC chair Brendan Carr criticized his remarks on Charlie Kirk. It's part of a pattern.
5 min read
Olivia Nuzzi finds a new home at Vanity Fair after parting ways with New York Magazine following RFK Jr. relationship
The former star Washington correspondent parted ways with New York magazine last year.
1 min read
A $6.2 billion deal looms over Jimmy Kimmel's suspension
Jimmy Kimmel drew the wrath of Nexstar Media Group and Sinclair after the FCC's Carr criticized him. Nexstar has a $6.2 billion deal on the line.
4 min read
Late-night TV is under threat from Trump and a precarious business model
Once the crown jewel of network television, the late-night format faces intense political pressure as ratings and revenue decline.
6 min read
These are the demands ABC-affiliate Sinclair is making to air Jimmy Kimmel again
Sinclair, the largest ABC affiliate in the US, doesn't think the network reprimanded Jimmy Kimmel enough for his remarks about Charlie Kirk.
3 min read
FCC Commissioner Anna Gomez blasts ABC's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel
Anna Gomez, the sole FCC Commissioner appointed by a Democrat, said ABC "has put the foundation of the First Amendment in danger."
3 min read
Jimmy Fallon drops out of a business conference appearance last minute
Jimmy Fallon, host of "The Tonight Show,"
canceled a Thursday appearance on a Fast Company panel about his new NBC reality series, "On Brand."
2 min read
Exclusive
These founders built a map app for Gen Z to discover new places like restaurants and shops. They've raised $3.8 million.
Corner is a social mapping app for Gen Z. The app lets users save, review, and add restaurants and other places to personalized lists.
5 min read
Peter Kafka
Let's be clear: The Trump administration forcing Jimmy Kimmel off the air is bad. Very bad.
It's very bad when American regulators like Trump's FCC call on American media companies to shut down a TV show they don't like, like Jimmy Kimmel.
4 min read
Here's what Jimmy Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk on his late-night show that got him pulled off the air
ABC said it pulled Jimmy Kimmel off the air "indefinitely" over his comments about Charlie Kirk's killing.
5 min read
Donald Trump cheers after ABC pulls Kimmel off the air — and tells NBC to cancel its late-night hosts next
President Donald Trump celebrated ABC pulling Jimmy Kimmel off the air over Charlie Kirk comments and urged NBC to cancel its late-night hosts.
3 min read
ABC suspends Jimmy Kimmel's show 'indefinitely' over his Charlie Kirk comments after FCC chair's threats
ABC pulled Jimmy Kimmel off the air indefinitely after his comments about Charlie Kirk's killing and his alleged shooter Tyler Robinson.
5 min read
These salacious, bite-sized soaps have become a $1.3 billion business in the US
Owl & Co. estimates short-drama apps like ReelShort and DramaBox will make $3 billion this year globally outside China, nearly triple last year.
3 min read
Netflix's co-CEO Ted Sarandos shares a key piece of career advice that he thinks is becoming 'a lost art'
Netflix co-CEO Ted Sarandos shared an important lesson he teaches his kids, and it's career advice that many professionals can use.
2 min read
Read 45 pitch decks that creator-economy startups used to raise millions of dollars
Creator and influencer startups used these pitch decks to raise millions from VCs and other investors.
6 min read
YouTube has a new strategy to win over Spotify's audio-first podcasters using AI
YouTube is introducing new AI features that could help it convert Spotify's audio-first podcasters into video creators.
3 min read
A YouTube exec breaks down its plans to take on Disney and Netflix in the living room
YouTube rolled out updates to boost TV viewing and rival Disney and Netflix, including ad tools, live viewing features, and creator memberships.
3 min read
WaPo fired a columnist after Charlie Kirk's killing. These are the 2 social posts it cited.
The Washington Post fired columnist Karen Attiah, citing two social media posts about white men in the wake of Charlie Kirk's killing.
4 min read
Exclusive
Read the pitch deck an influencer marketing startup used to raise $4.7 million to supercharge its AI and data tools
CreatorDB's CEO says he wants to see a "healthy middle class" of content creators. His startup raised money for the first time to fuel its efforts.
8 min read
Trump filed a $15 billion defamation lawsuit against The New York Times and 4 of its journalists
On Monday night, Trump filed a defamation and libel lawsuit against The New York Times.
3 min read
Read the pitch decks of 12 startups looking to disrupt dating apps and social networking that have raised millions
Social networking and dating startups used these pitch decks to raise venture capital funding rounds.
3 min read
Power Hours
I'm the former Netflix CMO, a current 'Real Housewife', and cohost with Jimmy Fallon. I start my day by talking to God.
Real Housewives star Bozoma Saint John told BI her daily routine as a CEO, and cohost of a Jimmy Fallon show. Her day starts with 5:30 a.m. prayer.
8 min read
Tim Cook and other Hollywood CEOs attended the Emmys. Take a look.
Hollywood's brightest stars and leading industry figures gathered at the Peacock Theater for the 77th annual Emmys.
2 min read
How the movie and TV studio behind 'Sound of Freedom' is selling investors on its unorthodox business model
Angel Studios, which made "Sound of Freedom," just went public. The contrarian studio's leadership team shared the pitch they're giving investors.
4 min read
NBCU's one-size-fits-all severance package for RTO workers shows just how much power employers have right now
Return-to-office orders are en vogue. Employees can leave and take severance, but if it's not based on tenure, staffers may eventually be less loyal.
4 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.