Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy? - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechMobile Headphones
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
During a tour of Apple's audio labs and a meeting with Apple executives who helped oversee the development of the AirPods Pro 3, I was taken back to the future.
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
David Carnoy
Sept. 25, 2025
6:00 a.m. PT 11 min read
Enlarge Image
Steve Jobs' MartinLogan Monolith speakers were inspired by the object in Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey. David Carnoy/CNET
When you enter the building that houses Apple's audio labs at Apple Park in Cupertino, California, you're greeted by a pair of giant MartinLogan Monolith III electrostatic speakers standing in the small lobby, almost looking like sculptures. Apple co-founder Steve Jobs donated the speakers to Apple's Audio and Acoustics Design team, "as inspiration for the successor to Apple's first high-fidelity loudspeaker system, the iPod Hi-Fi," according to a plaque that sits between them. That successor turned out to be the HomePod, which was announced in 2017, almost five years after Jobs' death.On the plaque is an iconic photo from 1982 by Time photographer Diana Walker that shows Jobs, age 27, sitting cross-legged on the floor of his sparsely furnished home with a pair of "similar but less advanced" Acoustat Monitor 3 electrostatic speakers and his stereo and vinyl collection behind him. "Steve Jobs was well-known for many of his passions, though less well known that high-fidelity audio reproduction was among them," the text underneath the photo reads.
Enlarge Image
Close-up of the plaque.  David Carnoy/CNETApple's HomePod speakers have had mixed success, but its AirPods, first released in 2016 and initially mocked for looking like Q-Tips, are the best-selling earbuds worldwide (with Beats buds), according to market researcher Canalys. AirPods have helped spur the massive proliferation of headphones and earbuds, turning them into essential accessories for iPhones and other phones, while profoundly impacting how people navigate their worlds.The original AirPods had an open design and lacked the greatest sound quality, particularly in terms of bass. Those were the early days of true-wireless buds, when just having a hiccup-free Bluetooth connection and good voice-calling performance were competitive advantages. With each iteration of the AirPods, Apple has made performance improvements, and the company's latest flagship noise-canceling earbuds, the AirPods Pro 3, feature upgraded sound quality and noise-canceling that takes them to another level.Steve Jobs didn't live to see the release of the AirPods. In many ways, the latest version, even more so than the pricey and bulkier AirPods Max, represents the fulfillment of his ultimate audio aspirations for Apple. You can even hear echoes of his 2006 iPod Hi-Fi introduction in Apple's marketing language for the AirPods Pro 3."What is home stereo quality, you could ask?" he said then. "Well, if you were an audiophile, what you'd say is four things. One, if you close your eyes, there's a soundstage around the speakers, the speakers disappear acoustically, and there's like a stage around the speakers where you can hear the performers performing; it's much larger than the speakers. So a large sound stage." He then goes on to list the other three things: precise imaging and separation, a wide frequency range and room-filling power without distortion.Now, jump to the AirPods Pro 3's product page, and you'll see this near the top of the page, listed as the first highlight: "An exceptional spatial listening experience with high-definition, three-dimensional audio." Discontinued after just 554 days, the iPod Hi-Fi didn't live up to its lofty expectations. Apple ceded the concept of an iPod speaker dock replacing your home stereo to third-party iPod accessory manufacturers, choosing instead to focus on the iPod itself and the just-released iPhone, which arrived in 2007 along with the single-bud Apple iPhone Bluetooth Headset, the precursor to the AirPods.That was probably the right choice.At the time, not too many people would have guessed that Jobs' high-fidelity Apple speaker system would live on in a tiny set of wearable speakers. If he were alive today, someone might ask him to recreate that 1982 photo of him sitting on the floor with an even more minimalist vibe. Instead of tower speakers and a stereo in the background, there'd only be an iPhone 17 on the floor next to him and AirPods Pro 3 in his ears. (Some have commented on that room's less-than-ideal listening space due to its emptiness, with nothing to dampen the sound and reduce reflections. Yet the acoustics of the room would be irrelevant for earbuds listening.)Apple wants you to know all this. Or at least it wants you to know how ambitious the AirPods Pro 3 really are, and how their engineering was based on years of research, not to mention learning from every AirPods model going back to the originals. That isn't easily conveyed given that, on the surface, most people might mistake the AirPods Pro 3 for the same lightweight glossy white plastic buds, which don't look like they should cost $249.Granted, Apple's flagship over-ear noise-canceling headphones, the AirPods Max, have a list price of $549, more than double that of the AirPods Pro 3's. But their blatantly luxurious design -- aside from their case -- makes it easier to persuade you that you're getting a high-end listening experience. It's a bit harder to convince folks they're getting a near AirPods Max-like sound experience from a pair of tiny buds claiming to have the "world's best in-ear active noise cancellation," with nifty extra features: Live Translation, heart-rate monitoring, hearing protection and an enhanced Hearing Aid mode.   That's why, the day after its "awe dropping" event on Sept. 9, the company gave me a peek at its audio lab and later invited me to chat with Matthew Costello, Apple VP of hardware and audio engineering (and chief operating officer of Beats Electronics), and Eric Treski, Apple director of home and audio product marketing, for an on-the-record conversation.
Enlarge Image
I was shuttled to my meeting in a golf cart after a rare intense September rain shower in Cupertino.  David Carnoy/CNET'Reinvented AirPods' The first thing Costello wants to make clear to me is that, despite sharing a similar design aesthetic to the AirPods Pro 2, the AirPods Pro 3 have been "reinvented." That is, completely redesigned inside and out. Even their eartips, foam-infused at the top, have been upgraded. The only thing that's really the same is Apple's H2 chip, which powers both models.   Costello says the performance improvements start with the new design. "This is the first time from a design perspective where sound is being directed directly into the ear canal," he explains. "The external geometry really facilitates that, and we're really proud of how it unlocks a number of different capabilities. We also improved the fit significantly. The improved fit is actually helping us to predict what's happening within the ear canal itself. We're actually better able to compensate for leakage and predict variability. And we're better able to understand what's happening in the ear canal and making ANC [active noise canceling] more precise. As ANC is more precise, it's able to create more headroom for transparency."
The AirPods Pro 3 (right) look similar to the AirPods Pro 2 (left), but their designs are distinctly different.   David Carnoy/CNETBoth Costello and Treski like to highlight the yin and yang of noise canceling and transparency and how features first introduced in the AirPods Pro 2, including Adaptive Audio and Conversation Awareness, bridge the two, while also helping with overall hearing protection. Costello says the Pro 3's new "geometry" and a better seal from the new ear tips deliver improved "passive attenuation" and even "porting of sound," making the ANC system better at compensating at higher frequencies, so the mids and highs, particularly human voices, are "much more profound." That, and upgraded low-noise microphones, actually help with the buds in transparency mode, allowing you to hear the outside world -- and voices in particular -- more clearly and naturally. The design changes also help unlock the improvements to sound quality, though a key component of those gains comes from a redesigned low-distortion 10.7mm driver and a new venting system that brings more airflow to the buds. As I said in my full review of the AirPods Pro 3: "The bass has more definition and extension -- it hits harder and goes deeper -- and the earbuds sound clearer, more natural and open with more sparkle in the treble." It's a noticeable difference, and their sound now rivals what you get from the very best-sounding earbuds. That said, depending on what I'm listening to, I do slightly prefer the sound from the more expensive Bowers & Wilkins Pi8, Technics AZ-100 and Noble Fokus Amadeus earbuds.
Sitting inside Apple's ambisonic reproduction system in its audio labs. Engineers use the system to test directional audio for noise canceling, transparency and spatial audio. Results from the tests are used to recreate and regulate the AirPods' sound using computational audio.   David Carnoy/CNETSome folks are skeptical about those performance improvements. I'm always a little wary when a company says its product is the "world's best" at anything, though I did agree with Sony when it said its WH-1000XM6 headphones, released earlier this year, had the best noise canceling in a set of over-ear headphones.Sony has seemingly been obsessed with surpassing Bose's noise canceling for the last several years, but Costello downplays that notion for Apple. "Of course, we're always benchmarking [against the competition]. We do try to run our own race in terms of how we measure and making sure our claims stack up, both based on our benchmarking but also the feedback we're getting in the real world from our 'internal' customers." By that, he means rank-and-file Apple employees, some of whom own Bose and Sony products and are able to offer up comparisons. In my own review of the AirPods Pro 3, I pitted them against Bose's $299 QuietComfort Earbuds (2nd gen), which were only released a few weeks ago in the US. A lot of reviewers said they had the best noise canceling, and I felt that way, too, until I tried the AirPods Pro 3. Then I wasn't so sure. I didn't feel I could declare one better than the other without running my own lab tests on a rather expensive rig that CNET doesn't own.  Even after I told people all that in a YouTube video, several viewers didn't buy that the AirPods Pro 3's performance improvements were that meaningful. One commenter posted, "I tend to think that with the same H2 chip 90% of the ANC improvement comes from the new foam tips, and the rest is Apple marketing. The same may apply to sound quality. We all know a good seal will improve sound -- in particular, the bass. My 10 cents." "Upgraded microphones also make a difference," I responded. "I get a good seal with both models [AirPods Pro 3 and AirPods Pro 2]. That said, I agree that the seal is a big factor, and small differences can have a big impact. I think Apple would agree with you, too."The comment about the H2 chip goes to the heart of some quips I've seen from people saying, "No H3, no reason to upgrade." There's some truth to that, as many features of the AirPods Pro 3, including Live Translation, also work with the H2-powered AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods 4. However, while certain AirPods Pro 3 features and enhancements are being made available to the AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods 4 through firmware updates, the AirPods Pro 3 have software written exclusively for the earbuds' hardware upgrades and new acoustic architecture. That means the AirPods 2's sound quality and noise-canceling capabilities won't be getting any better. Nor will their transparency.
Enlarge Image
Testing the AirPods Pro 3's noise canceling in the streets of New York. I compared them to the Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds (2nd gen).  David Carnoy/CNETLike a lot of other people, I bought into the rumor that the AirPods Pro 3 would have an H3 chip, perhaps swayed by the 3 in the name. But I've also heard hints in earlier AirPods meetings that Apple hadn't tapped into the full power of the H2 with the AirPods Pro 2. And it certainly sees using its own silicon (chipset) as a key advantage over its competitors because it allows for better control of software and hardware integration, and to create unique features for its earbuds and optimize performance.One of the differences between the AirPods Pro 3 and so-called real hi-fi set-ups (and plenty of other earbuds and headphones) is that they're missing an equalizer that allows you to tweak the sound to your liking, adjusting the bass, treble and mids. Steve Jobs was an analog guy who preferred listening to vinyl and didn't think too highly of digital formats at the time, according to Neil Young. But the AirPods Pro and other Bluetooth true-wireless noise-canceling earbuds are all-digital and governed by their algorithms.Noise canceling typically has an adverse effect on sound quality, and audiophile brands like UK-based Bowers & Wilkins (recently sold to Samsung) and French company Focal have prioritized sound quality over noise canceling. (The Focal Bathys headphones, for instance, feature great sound but relatively light noise canceling.)But Costello says the AirPods Pro 3 have hit a sweet spot when it comes to noise-canceling performance and audio quality. Thanks to the Pro 3's next-generation adaptive EQ, which uses microphones that sit just inside your ears to not only optimize but personalize the sound in real-time, both he and Treski seem to consider the lack of an EQ a feature, not a bug.Treski returns to what Costello was saying about the new geometry of the buds, the tight seal and how a "direct line-of-sight into your eardrum" rather than obstructing "against the sides of your ear canal" is about having the best "predictability" possible.  "That's been really important for the engineering team," Treski says, "because then they can essentially use the algorithms that are built on our silicon of H2 -- it's essentially designed in concert with the acoustic engineers, of course -- to ensure that it has all the DSPs [digital signal processors] and equalization and everything they need on it to manage this capability, which allows them to predict and manage the ANC system in conjunction with the audio system. So it's pretty remarkable to see how one chip is essentially managing both of those things, and it's all done together rather than having two separate components or SoCs [system on a chip] that are essentially separate from one another."Reviewing audio products is by its very nature a subjective experience. Everybody has different ears and different audio preferences. You'll find various opinions about the AirPods Pro 3's sound, including those who prefer the sound quality of the AirPods Pro 2 to the AirPods Pro 3's. I saw a review from an "audiophile" who said the AirPods Pro 3 have "improved sound quality, especially in the bass and treble, but the mids are recessed and the AirPods Pro 2 are more balanced overall." Fair enough, I guess. But you may feel differently (I didn't find the AirPods Pro 3's mids recessed; in fact, they seemed slightly clearer and more natural to me).  Some people were critical of Sony when it moved from its popular WH-1000XM4 over-ear headphones to the WH-1000XM5 and changed the headphone's driver size (30mm instead of 40mm) and sound profile, favoring more clarity and definition over the XM4's meatier, energetic bass. (With the new XM6, it dialed up the bass energy while improving the definition).  Though I do like some warmth in the bass, I personally lean more toward clarity and accuracy, which includes precise imaging and separation, the second most important attribute on Jobs' list for home-stereo audio quality. And the best headphones have a pure, natural quality to their sound, whether they cost $200 or $2,000.        Like with the AirPods Max, you can certainly debate just how good the AirPods Pro 3 really sound, particularly in comparison to other top-sounding earbuds, and whether their noise canceling is better than what you get with Bose's QC Ultra Earbuds (2nd gen). But ultimately, it's the sum of their capabilities in such a tiny package that's most impressive about them. There also may be more to come, as Apple has a habit of leaving off a few tricks when it first launches products (remember that the AirPods Pro 2 didn't have spatial audio when they launched). I tend to think we're not done hearing about the heart-rate sensor and future health applications for the buds.At Apple Expo Paris 20 years ago, Steve Jobs said, "Frankly, music is very big. We tend to forget how big it is. With Bluetooth, songs take a while to download. And if you have Bluetooth headphones, you have to charge them as well as the iPod. People don't want to do that. Also, the sound isn't good enough."I suspect he'd feel a little differently about the AirPods Pro 3.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.