Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 puts a 4.6 GHz processor in your pocket
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 puts a 4.6 GHz processor in your pocket
Credit: Justin Duino / XDA-Developers
By
Adam Conway
Published 5 hours ago
I’m Adam Conway, an Irish technology fanatic with a BSc in Computer Science and I'm XDA’s Lead Technical Editor. My Bachelor’s thesis was conducted on the viability of benchmarking the non-functional elements of Android apps and smartphones such as performance, and I’ve been working in the tech industry in some way or another since 2017.
In my spare time, you’ll probably find me playing Counter-Strike or VALORANT, and you can reach out to me at adam@xda-developers.com, on Twitter as @AdamConwayIE, on Instagram as adamc.99, or u/AdamConwayIE on Reddit.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Qualcomm has officially unveiled its latest flagship mobile platform, the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5, and the specifications are nothing short of outrageous for a smartphone. It features Qualcomm's latest
Oryon cores, with two cores clocked at an astonishingly high 4.6 GHz. The other six performance cores are clocked at 3.6 GHz, which is still considerably faster than even the highest clocked cores we would have seen in smartphones just a few years ago.
If you're reading this and wondering "what happened to the previous four generations?" then don't worry, it's not because you missed an entire four generations of the 8 Elite series. Instead, Qualcomm appears to be counting from the Snapdragon 8 Gen 1, as the Snapdragon 8 Elite from last year would have been number four.
Naming aside, Qualcomm is calling this "the fastest mobile CPU in the world," so what's changed this time around? There are quite a few architectural improvements and a lot of AI things to go over, and some of it's quite interesting.
A huge year-over-year leap for computation
But what about battery life?
Credit: Justin Duino / XDA-Developers
The Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 is built on a 3nm fabrication process, with Qualcomm neglecting to mention which process that is, exactly. Leaks have pointed to TSMC's N3P process, an upgrade over the N3E process used for the original Snapdragon X Elite, but that isn't confirmed at this point in time. Regardless, battery life is a big question mark on account of that monsterous 4.6 GHz clock speed. Accordingly to Qualcomm, it boasts a 20% improvement year-over-year performance improvement, where last year's chip was clocked at a peak of 4.47 GHz. The CPU is an important part of Qualcomm's on-device AI initative. It has hardware matrix accelerators and an ultra low-latency cache, and it is said to work in tandem with the Hexagon NPU on-board. The company not only says it will be used to enable agentic AI (that is, an AI model operating an actual device or service), but it will power services like "Qualcomm Personal Scribe." Personal Scribe is said to power an on-device agentic AI assistant that can make recommendations and can act on your behalf based on your routine, preferences, and conversations.
The Hexagon NPU is said to be 37% faster alongside an upgraded Qualcomm Sensing Hub, and on-device AI is now an important part of the video stack. That includes a fully computational video pipeline (which the company is calling "Dragon Fusion") capable of analyzing frames as they come through, along with a "context-aware" auto-focus, auto-exposure, and auto-white balance. Qualcomm is going big on AI smarts here, and the AI accelerators credited with making on-device agentic AI and LLMs possible are also claimed to not drain your battery.
Credit: Source: Qualcomm
The GPU as well gets a boost, with a 23% increase in performance and a 20% decrease in power consumption. The key upgrade here, though, is the addition of what's called "Adreno High Performance Memory." This is an 18 MB piece of dedicated cache with the goal of reducing latency and boosting bandwidth when it comes to rendering. This is in tandem with the addition of the Tile Memory Heap and support for Mesh Shading. The Tile Memory Heap allows applications to allocate and manage tile memory, and the contents of this memory are treated differently to other kinds of memory. The tile memory is used to store the color and other attachments for each tile during rasterization, and each tile is processed and copied to system memory independently. This appears to be an addition to Qualcomm's FlexRender, where the Adreno GPU decides whether to render tiles using Tile-Based Deferred Rendering (TBDR) or immediate-mode rendering (IM), assuming that the application hasn't indicated a preference. TBDR is where this would hypothetically kick in. Qualcomm has provided expected benchmark ranges:
Category
Benchmark
Subtest/Variant
Test Details
Score Range/Average
CPU
Geekbench ST
V6.5, Average of 3 iterations
3825 - 3900
CPU
Geekbench MT
V6.5, Average of 3 iterations
12200 - 12350
CPU
Speedometer
Chrome v139, Version 3.1, Average of 12 models (400/401/403/429/445/456/458/462/464/471/473/483)
48 - 49
System
AnTuTu
v11, Average of 3 iterations
4.25M to 4.5M
Graphics
GFXBench Manhattan 3.0
Offscreen (1080p), FPS, v5.1, Average of 3 iterations
314 - 357
GFXBench Manhattan 3.1
Offscreen (1080p), OpenGL, FPS, v5.1, Average of 3 iterations
471 - 487
Graphics
GFXBench Aztec Ruins
Vulkan (Normal Tier)
Offscreen (1080p), FPS, v5.1, Average of 3 iterations
267 - 379
Vulkan (High Tier)
Offscreen (1440p), FPS, v5.1, Average of 3 iterations
143 - 150
GFXBench Aztec Ruins
OpenGL (Normal Tier)
Offscreen (1080p), FPS, v5.0, Average of 3 iterations
262
OpenGL (High Tier)
Offscreen (1440p), FPS, v5.1, Average of 3 iterations
120 - 121
Graphics
3Dmark WildLife
Unlimited Offscreen
v2.5, Average of 3 iterations
183 - 185
Extreme Unlimited Offscreen
v2.5, Average of 3 iterations
50
3Dmark Steel Nomad
Unlimited
v2.5, Average of 3 iterations
23
3Dmark Solar Bay
Unlimited
v2.5, Average of 3 iterations
55
AI
AITutu - CV
V3, 1 iteration
2.5M
AITutu - LLM
V3, 1 iteration
900K – 1M
AIMark
V2, 1 iteration
380K
MLPerf V2
Image Classification v2
Performance (QPS), 1 iteration
1760
AI
Object Detection
Performance (QPS), 1 iteration
4221
Image Segmentation v2.0
Performance (QPS), 1 iteration
3115
Language Understanding
Performance (QPS), 1 iteration
875+
Super Resolution
Performance (QPS), 1 iteration
519
Image Classification (Offline)
Performance (QPS), 1 iteration
2530+
Stable Diffusion
Performance (QPS), 1 iteration
0.47 to 0.48
read more
The benchmarks look good, but those only tell one part of the story. It has all the makings of a pretty powerful chip. The Snapdragon 8 Elite fared quite well with its considerably high clock speed as well, and given that Qualcomm also says that it has "up to 35% CPU power efficiency" (though it's unclear what exactly this means) and "16% overall SoC power savings," we're hoping it continues to follow the same path of efficiency that was paved by the Snapdragon 8 Elite.
Connectivity and cameras
Some old, some new
The Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 comes with a boost to mobile connectivity, headlined by the Qualcomm X85 5G. This modem was already announced earlier in the year, and features support for 5G Advanced standards with a peak download speed of 12.5 Gbps and a peak upload speed of 3.7 Gbps. It uses an AI-powered traffic engine to prioritize certain types of traffic. Alongside it, we get the Qualcomm FastConnect 7900, which the company unveiled last year and included with the Snapdragon 8 Elite. For cameras, there's an industry first: the Advanced Professional Video codec is here, which is a near-lossless video codec and can be described as something akin to RAW photography, though obviously for video. Like Apple's ProRes, each frame is encoded as a self-contained still image as a macroblock. Each macroblock is encoded independently, and this separation of frames allows for higher quality encoding. Unlike HEVC, which can be computationally expensive to encode, APV is a lot easier for a device to compute at the expense of larger file sizes. The Spectra ISP sees some improvements, with the addition of a 20-bit pipeline with the intention of improving photography and video in high-contrast lighting. The ISP is part of the pipeline that enables the "context-aware" auto-focus, auto-exposure, and auto-white balance we mentioned earlier, and aims to make your phone a more competitive piece of equipment when it comes to photo and video.
Devices are launching soon
"In the coming days," apparently
The Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 will power flagship devices from a roster of global OEMs, including Honor, iQOO, Nubia, OnePlus, OPPO, POCO, realme, REDMI, RedMagic, ROG, Samsung, Sony, vivo, Xiaomi, and ZTE. If you want to get your hands on one of these, new devices are expected to launch "in the coming days," according to Qualcomm, though it's not clear which company will be the first.
Qualcomm has put AI at the front and center of this launch, and some of the features shown here are undeniably interesting. Qualcomm's "multi-modal AI assistant" made its debut with the 8 Elite last year alongside numerous generative AI claims, but AI has only grown bigger since then.
CPU
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
This free, open-source Spotify alternative you can make with your friends
1 day ago
6 of the coolest HACS integrations for Home Assistant users
1 day ago
I should have left Adobe for this open-source graphics stack sooner
13 hours ago
Netdata is an open source dashboard that shows all my servers and services in one place
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
1 hour ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
3 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 systemd tweaks that really boost my boot time
I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
If you thought Snapdragon X was cool, Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme blows it away
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.