We Tested the DreamCloud Mattress: Could It Be the Best Budget Luxury Bed in 2025? - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
We Tested the DreamCloud Mattress: Could It Be the Best Budget Luxury Bed in 2025? If you toss and turn every night and almost always end up on your back or stomach, this supportive DreamCloud mattress might be the one for you.
Written by
JD Christison
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Jun 13, 2025
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1,531 at DreamCloud
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1531
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$1,531 at DreamCloud
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on June 13, 2025 at 12:02 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
JD Christison
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 8.0 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Back sleeper
Stomach sleeper
Score Breakdown
Performance
8
/10
Policies
8.5
/10
Durability
8.5
/10
Features
7
/10
Pros and Cons
Pros
Thick, 12-inch construction makes for a supportive bed
Firm feel keeps you from feeling "stuck"
Suitable for stomach and back sleepers
Cons
Too firm for strict side sleepers
Lighter individuals may find it too firm
A little expensive for those on a tight budget
Table of Contents
We Tested the DreamCloud Mattress: Could It Be the Best Budget Luxury Bed in 2025?
Video: DreamCloud mattress review
First impressions of the DreamCloud
The DreamCloud mattress firmness and feel
DreamCloud mattress construction
The DreamCloud mattress performance
Who is the DreamCloud mattress best for?
DreamCloud Hybrid mattress pricing
Trial, shipping and warranty
How does the DreamCloud compare to other mattresses?
The final verdict
Each sleeping position demands a different type of bed. For back and stomach sleepers, a plush mattress isn't ideal. They need something that delivers the right balance of firmness and comfort, durability and value. That's where DreamCloud comes in. We've been tracking this brand for nearly a decade, and let's say there's been some serious evolution.What started as a single, tan mattress option has grown into a full lineup of six models, each designed with different sleepers in mind. The DreamCloud mattress remains the most budget-friendly choice in the mix, but that doesn't mean it's a one-size-fits-all solution. In this review, we're diving into what makes the DreamCloud stand out, who'll benefit most from it and whether it's still a top contender.Editor's note: The Federal Trade Commission recently sued DreamCloud's parent company, saying it falsely advertised that its mattresses are made in the US. Video: DreamCloud mattress reviewWatch me review the DreamCloud mattress. DreamCloud Hybrid
See at DreamCloud
First impressions of the DreamCloud
Credit: Jon Gomez/CNETThis bed arrived at our office with completely free shipping, packed inside of a large box. The unboxing process was straightforward: We took it out of the box, removed the packaging and watched the mattress quickly inflate. Initially, we noticed the bed was slightly misshapen, but after a night on our foundation, it fully expanded and took its proper shape.When we came back in the morning, the bed was ready to be tested. Compared to older DreamCloud models, this one has much less of a memory foam feel. The neutral foams in the quilted cover and the support coils provide a quicker response time. It also felt noticeably firmer than other DreamCloud beds we've tested in the past.The DreamCloud mattress firmness and feelWhat does the DreamCloud mattress feel like?
Jon Gomez/CNETThis bed has less of a memory foam feel than previous versions, but we'd still describe it as having a responsive memory foam touch. The support coils and neutral comfort foams help balance out the memory foam sensation. There's a slight sink-in effect, but overall, the DreamCloud Hybrid feels more like a neutral hybrid mattress than a traditional memory foam bed.Other DreamCloud beds have more of a predominant memory foam quality. Since the DreamCloud Memory Foam uses support foam instead of coils, it has more of a memory foam feel comparatively. The DreamCloud Premier and Premier Rest beds also have thicker layers of memory foam for comfort, which gives them a softer, body-conforming quality.How firm is the DreamCloud mattress?
Jon Gomez/CNETThis is probably one of the firmest DreamCloud mattresses I've ever laid on. On our scale, it sits between a medium-firm and a proper firm. This makes it best for strict back or stomach sleepers looking for support over pressure relief, or for those who just want a firmer bed.While firmness is subjective from person to person, we have a machine at CNET that can pinpoint the objective firmness of a bed. The Mattress Smasher 9000 gave this mattress a firmness rating of 7.1 out of 10. That's a bit softer than we felt the bed to be, but not by much -- what does a robot know, anyway? We're the ones who actually have to sleep on it.DreamCloud mattress construction
Jon Gomez/CNETThis is a premium memory foam hybrid bed with a relatively simple construction. It's 12 inches thick and comprised of the following layers:1. On the bottom, you've got a thin layer of support foam that acts as a base for the bed's main support system of pocketed coils. Those coils are extra-reinforced along the edges to provide a sturdy perimeter. 2. Next, there's a Dynamic Transition layer that acts as a buffer between the support and comfort layers of the bed. It also has Zoned Support to help keep your back aligned while you sleep.3. Above that, you've got the bed's main comfort layer. In this case, it's around 2 inches of dense, viscous memory foam.
4. Rounding everything out is a breathable, cashmere blend quilted cover. It feels nice and luxurious, with tufted mounds to go along with the notion of the bed's "cloud-like" comfort.The DreamCloud mattress performance
Jon Gomez/CNETMotion isolation
Memory foam beds usually perform the best in this department, and we'd say the DreamCloud mattress does a fine job at isolating motion. If you or your partner is a light sleeper, you'll want a bed that doesn't reverberate a ton of motion. Luckily, this bed absorbs a good amount of cross-mattress movement on both sides. It might not deaden as much motion as a dense memory foam mattress like a Tempur-Pedic, but it will likely work fine for couples with light sleepers.Edge-to-edge supportThe DreamCloud mattress has great edge support. This is mostly due to the reinforced coils that run along the edges of the mattress. They definitely help to prop you up more when you're on the bed's perimeter. We often observe firmer beds to have stronger edges than softer ones, since they have more rigidity and provide more support than pressure relief. And sometimes, softer beds bow on the sides more than you'd like -- that puts us on edge.TemperatureThe cashmere blend quilted cover on the DreamCloud is designed to be breathable and soft to the touch. However, compared to beds that are designed to sleep actively cool, we'd classify it as a temperature-neutral sleeping option. Though DreamCloud, along with many other brands, claims its beds sleep cool, a lot of that is just marketing noise. None of the DreamCloud beds offer active cooling, but they also shouldn't sleep too hot.Durability
Since this is a premium hybrid bed with reinforced edges, I'd say it's plenty durable to last most couples for several years. In the long run, hybrid mattresses typically last longer than all-foam beds because support foams can degrade faster than coils, especially underneath heavier people. The DreamCloud's hybrid design should be durable enough to last all body types for seven to 10 years -- and that's at the bare minimum.Who is the DreamCloud mattress best for?
Jon Gomez/CNETThough the bed's design is durable enough to handle all body types, its firmness and feel might not be right for everyone. Here's who we think this bed is best for.Sleeping position
Keep in mind, this is a firmer style of hybrid mattress. Since it's so firm, it's best for strict back and stomach sleepers or those who prefer a very firm sleeping surface. (The same goes for the memory foam version of the bed.) If you're a combination sleeper looking for a bed that's around a medium firmness, I'd steer you towards the DreamCloud Premier beds. If you're a strict side sleeper who wants a lot of pressure relief, I'd consider the DreamCloud Premier Rest instead of the flagship DreamCloud -- trust me, you'll thank me in the long run.Body typeAs mentioned, the construction of this bed makes it supportive enough to handle all body types, including heavier people. If you're more petite or average-sized, the DreamCloud mattress's support could be overkill for you. In that case, you could save money by going with its memory foam version.DreamCloud Hybrid mattress pricing undefined SizeMeasurementsPrice Twin 38x75 inches$1,014Twin XL 38x80 inches$1,098Full 54x74 inches$1,364Queen 60x80 inches$1,531King 76x80 inches$1,898Cal king 72x84 inches$1,898Split king 78x80 inches$2,195
This is currently the most affordable mattress offering from the brand. For a more luxurious hybrid bed, it's very reasonably priced. Plus, apply a discount to the queen-size version and you can expect to pay right around the $699 mark. Any queen-size hybrid bed that's available for under $1,000 is a great value in our book.Trial, shipping and warrantyDreamCloud backs this bed with some of the most generous policies found within the online mattress space. Its beds ship to you in a box for free, and once it arrives, you get a 365-night trial period to try it risk-free. If you don't like it within that timeframe, you can return it for free. If you decide to keep it, you're backed by a forever warranty. Just be sure to use the right foundation for the bed. Otherwise, you could void its warranty.How does the DreamCloud compare to other mattresses? The DreamCloud vs. Saatva ClassicIf you're looking for a more luxurious online bed, these are two top choices to consider. The DreamCloud is the much more affordable option between the two, but with the Saatva Classic, you're spending up for a more tangible sense of luxury. With its dual-coil construction, organic cotton cover with golden embroidery and the appearance of a luxurious five-star hotel bed, it exudes elegance. Plus, it's available in three firmness options whereas the DreamCloud only comes in one profile. The Saatva Classic also has a more traditional feel. But if you're looking for a bed with more of a memory foam feel, it could be worth checking out DreamCloud over the Saatva Classic.Saatva Classic
$2,099 at Saatva
The DreamCloud vs. Nectar Classic HybridNow, let's compare two of the most affordable memory foam beds available online. Both have coils for support, are on the firm side and are similarly priced for a queen size. That said, there are still some major differences between the two. The DreamCloud has less of a pronounced memory foam feel than the Nectar Classic Hybrid, which has a responsive memory foam quality. The Nectar bed also has a flatter sleeping surface, while the DreamCloud has a tufted, quilted cover. Long story short, if you want more memory foam, go with Nectar, and if you're looking for luxury, go with DreamCloud. Nectar Classic Hybrid
$1,531 at Nectar
The final verdictThere's no denying that the DreamCloud mattress is a quality bed for its price. I'd look into it if you want a premium hybrid bed with a slight sink-in quality that's on the much firmer side. If you don't end up liking it, you can always fall back on the great return policy it comes with.You might like this mattress if:
You want a supportive hybrid mattressYou want a responsive memory foam mattressYou like a much firmer mattress styleYou want a bed backed by great policiesYou might not like this mattress if:
You're looking for an all-foam mattressYou prefer the feel of a neutral or latex foam mattressYou want more of a pressure-relieving mattress
DreamCloud Hybrid mattress FAQs
Is the DreamCloud mattress soft or firm?
This is a pretty firm bed. It’s a tinge softer than a proper firm on our scale, making it most suitable for strict back or stomach sleepers. If you're a combination sleeper who prefers a much firmer style of bed, you may also enjoy it. However, if you’re a side sleeper, I highly recommend checking out the DreamCloud Premier Rest. It costs more, but it might be worth it for most side sleepers seeking pressure relief in their next bed.
Is DreamCloud owned by Nectar?
DreamCloud and Nectar are owned by the same parent company, Resident Home. Some other brands that fall under the Resident Home umbrella include Awara and Cloverlane.
How long do DreamCloud mattresses last?
Being a premium hybrid bed, the DreamCloud should last you for at least the next seven to 10 years, if not much longer. Hybrid beds are often thought to last longer than all-foam beds since steel coils last longer support-wise. For that reason alone, this bed should last you for many years to come, regardless of your body type.
Should I put a topper on a hybrid mattress?
Adding a good mattress topper can be a great choice, since it can improve the overall comfort of the mattress and also offer temperature regulation. Plus, it acts as a protective layer for the mattress.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.