Health - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Lifestyle
Health
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
We celebrated our anniversary on Royal Caribbean's Star of the Seas, a 10,000-person cruise ship. It was surprisingly romantic.
4 min read
Forget Paleo — here's what we should really learn from our ancient ancestors about longevity, says a researcher
5 min read
5 to 9
How Ciara spends her 5-9 — from jogging in NYC to romantic date nights with Russell Wilson
Ciara told Business Insider that longevity is a big priority because she wants to share moments with her kids and her husband Russell Wilson.
7 min read
The founder of a longevity startup said he follows 5 habits to curb brain aging after his dad was diagnosed with Alzheimer's
After his dad was diagnosed with Alzheimer's, a 41-year-old CEO changed his habits for better brain health, from doing more cardio to
following the MIND diet.
4 min read
I was 39 and my husband was 46 when our daughter was born. I'm concerned about the future as an older parent.
I became a first-time mom a month before turning 40. My second child was born when I was 42. I keep comparing myself unfavorably with younger parents.
4 min read
I took a VO2 max test while sprinting on a treadmill. It taught me how fast I should run to burn fat and build muscle.
A VO2 max test measures heart health and breaks down your ideal cardio zones for burning fat and building muscle.
6 min read
We don't need more rigid screen rules and detoxes from phones
Zelana Montminy had stared at her phone for 10 minutes when a stranger asked her if she was OK. She says her phone gave her an escape from her grief.
5 min read
The best smart rings
We tested today's top smart rings for accuracy, comfort, and design — here are the ones worth your money in 2025.
12 min read
When I was diagnosed with cancer, I became a better leader at work. I didn't have the energy to micromanage.
Stephanie Essenfeld was diagnosed with breast cancer on 2025. She didn't have the time to micromanage and going through chemo changed how she leads.
4 min read
80 over 80
We're in our 80s and refuse to retire from our family farm. It doesn't bring us much money, but it's where our love is.
Dix Roberts, 88, and Ruth Roberts, 82, run Roberts Family Farms in Utah. Neither has any desire to retire, though they're slowing down.
7 min read
Elizabeth Banks, 51, credits 3 everyday habits for keeping her youthful
"I've really come to terms with the fact that I need seven to eight hours of sleep," Elizabeth Banks said.
3 min read
The 7 best places to buy contacts online using insurance, HSA, and FSA in 2025
The best places to buy contacts online should accept insurance as well as HSA or FSA money, including companies like 1-800 Contacts and GlassesUSA.
7 min read
I avoided the post-wedding blues by quitting my job, selling our house, and moving abroad within 3 weeks
Rachel Hosie did four of life's biggest events at the same time. It was stressful, but also exciting, she said.
4 min read
Julianne Moore says her ideal day off still involves 'a little bit of work'
"But I think, the more life you've accrued, the more precious it becomes," Julianne Moore said.
3 min read
Want to build muscle by working out just 1 hour a week? One bodybuilder scientist offers these 4 tips to see gains fast.
Picking the right exercises, equipment, and techniques can help us build muscle fast, according to the bodybuilding researcher Milo Wolf.
4 min read
My husband is on Mounjaro and doing well. He asked me to join him, but I said no.
He was prescribed an GLP-1 to manage his A1C. I have a history with food and decided not to join him. In cooking healthier for him we both lost weight.
4 min read
Sam Altman's longevity startup is testing a pill for a younger brain
Retro Biosciences is set to run a clinical trial for an aging drug designed to reverse Alzheimer's, its CEO Joe Betts-LaCroix, told Business Insider.
6 min read
I spent the last few months of my mom's life by her side. It only made our connection stronger.
My mother was there for me at the most important moments of my life. When she was diagnosed with cancer and dementia, I had to be there for her.
4 min read
A 100-year-old woman said her longevity routine includes lifting weights, eating ice cream, and going to the beach
A woman who lifts weights as a 100-year-old said habits like going to the beach, eating ice cream, and flirting at the gym keep her young.
5 min read
Working at a summer camp as a media director was the reset I needed after getting laid off from a job I loved
I was laid off from my job in the entertainment industry a year ago. This summer, I worked — and stayed — at a summer camp. It was the reset I needed.
5 min read
A gut health dietitian's 5 easy, go-to anti-inflammatory dinners
Chronic inflammation is linked to a range of conditions including heart disease, cancer, and dementia. Eating a Mediterranean-style diet, like registered dietitian Amy Buckley, could help lower the risk.
4 min read
Drew Barrymore shares the mantra that helps her and her kids feel calmer at home
Drew Barrymore also says she tries to normalize therapy for her daughters. "We all need tools to navigate the world, and asking for help is everything," she said.
3 min read
I got married less than a year after meeting my husband. We've been together for 35 years now.
We met and got married in less than a year when we were in our 20s. We keep choosing each other while also giving room to grow and embracing change.
5 min read
Emily Stewart
From the Thighmaster to Peloton, all fitness fads go bust. Except one.
Working out on a treadmill is among the most popular forms of exercise in America, and it's not going anywhere anytime soon—literally.
7 min read
Selena Gomez says one piece of advice from her grandpa continues to shape her work ethic
"I would feel like a puppy dog with my tail in between my legs the whole day at work if I made the crew wait even 30 minutes," Selena Gomez said.
2 min read
The 19 best shoes for plantar fasciitis in 2025
If you suffer from plantar fasciitis, shoes with heel cushioning and arch support can help relieve some of the worst symptoms and provide comfort.
13 min read
My grandma taught ballet and could do a split in her 90s. She showed me how to eat and exercise — and that age is just a number.
Mildred "Millie" Cruzat became a dancer at age 18, and never really stopped. Her granddaughter said she taught her not to fear aging.
5 min read
My brother is 12 years older than I am, and he let me live with him after college. He's more of a father figure than a sibling.
My brother is over 12 years older than I am, and we've never been super close. He's more of a father figure than a sibling, which has pros and cons.
4 min read
My son's ADHD diagnosis scared me at first. 7 years later, I know it's made me a better parent and person.
I cried when my son was first diagnosed with ADHD. Now, I can see how learning to care for him and his unique needs has made me a better person.
4 min read
I visit my 82-year-old dad multiple times a week. He still tells people he's lonely.
Watching my father's health decline has been hard. When my patience runs low, I try to consider the frustration he must be feeling.
4 min read
School is back in session. Here's how you can stay focused.
In this Saturday edition of Business Insider Today, we're talking about deep breathing exercises for the transition into fall.
6 min read
I deleted every app on my phone except for calls and texts. It changed how I thought, slept, and spoke to people.
I deleted Instagram, TikTok, X, LinkedIn, Spotify, YouTube, Google Maps, WhatsApp, and even email. I cleared my phone so I could have a clear mind.
5 min read
My mom's ex-boyfriend and I are still in touch after 30 years. He paid off my student debt, we travel together, and I call him my 'second dad.'
My mom's ex-boyfriend from 30 years ago and I are still close. I call him my "second dad," and we travel together and talk frequently.
3 min read
Adam Collard from 'Love Island' lost fat and got swole 11 years ago. 3 things helped him build muscle.
Adam Collard, now a personal trainer and gym owner, lost over half his body fat in his late teens.
5 min read
Ultrahuman Ring Air review: A fitness tracker that's great for biohackers, but confusing for everyone else
Ultrahuman's ring goes beyond the basics, with insights on caffeine optimization, brain waste, and more. But it's probably too much data for some.
11 min read
Gym bros are buying knockoffs of the strongest weight-loss drug ever from the gray market
Eli Lilly is still in clinical trials for a powerful weight-loss drug. Despite this, it's gaining popularity in fitness communities.
How one of the best ballerinas in America stays on top despite two injuries
As she enters her 21st season with New York City Ballet, Tiler reflects on the setbacks and triumphs that have defined her 16 years as a principal.
Emma Heming Willis says she mistook Bruce Willis' early symptoms for marriage troubles
"There was relief in understanding, 'Oh, okay, this wasn't my husband, it was that this disease was taking parts of his brain,'" she said.
3 min read
Giorgio Armani worked into his 90s. Here's his daily routine and secret to longevity.
Announcing Giorgio Armani's death at age 91, his company said that he "worked until his final days." He had a basic daily routine involving a tasty, nutritious diet.
3 min read
I only planned to live with my mom in her one-bedroom apartment for a year. Then, I got laid off.
After my college graduation, I moved home with my mom in her one-bedroom apartment. I'd planned to stay a year, but that changed when I was laid off.
4 min read
3 foods a gut health dietitian following an anti-inflammatory diet eats weekly
Chronic inflammation is linked to conditions including heart disease and cancer. To lower her risk, the dietitian Amy Buckley eats foods high in polyphenols, omega-3 fatty acids, and prebiotics.
3 min read
3 ways golf can help you feel young, according to a 77-year-old CEO who's been playing for decades
A CEO who is still working into his 70s said playing golf is part of his daily longevity routine for staying healthy, youthful, and energized.
4 min read
Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin talked about living to 150. Here's what longevity research says is feasible.
The leaders of China and Russia were caught talking about organ transplants and reaching 150 years old on a hot mic during a military parade.
5 min read
I'm Gen Z, my aunt is a boomer; when I needed help with my crush, she was the perfect confidant
My boomer aunt has become my go-to person for dating advice. Recently, she coached me on approaching my crush.
4 min read
My partner and I are 23 and planning our prenup. We are far from rich, but want an equitable relationship from the start.
My partner and I are Gen Z and planning our prenup together. We want our relationship to be fair and equitable from the start.
4 min read
Etiquette experts share the 6 times you should write a thank-you note — and the 2 times you can skip
According to etiquette experts, you should always write thank-you notes after staying in someone's home or receiving a gift from a child.
4 min read
I met my partner while on a solo trip in Europe. Now we're traveling the world together and navigating a long-distance relationship.
I met my partner on a dating app while I was traveling solo in Europe last year. We're now long-distance and travel the world together.
5 min read
Power Hours
The VC who married Paris Hilton uses his cryochamber twice a day and launches an AI agent before bed
VC Carter Reum told BI about his daily routine, which includes recharging in his cryochamber and launching an AI agent before bed.
7 min read
I'm an English teacher who married a PE teacher in real life. We have a rule where we can't talk about work at home.
Kasey Kuiper is a high school English teacher who married a PE teacher, just like Taylor Swift's caption. The couple avoids talking about work at home.
4 min read
Samsung Galaxy Ring review: Sleek, smart, but still playing catch-up to the Oura Ring
The Samsung Galaxy Ring is sleek and integrates smoothly with Android phones, but it still falls short of the Oura Ring in features and polish.
11 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.