GoFundMe and Friend Loans: How a Job Seeker Stayed Afloat Financially - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Careers
I relied on a GoFundMe and loans from friends while I was unemployed. After an 8-month search, I finally landed a job.
As told to
Jacob Zinkula
Michele Wilke said she launched a GoFundMe and took on debt to stay afloat while searching for a job.
Pamela L. King Photography
2025-09-17T09:10:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Michele Wilke struggled to find work for eight months before landing a job offer in September.
She said she relied on GoFundMe donations and loans from friends to stay afloat financially.
Wilke is among the Americans who are struggling to find work amid a white-collar hiring slowdown.
​​This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with Michele Wilke, a 63-year-old job seeker in Chicago. It has been edited for length and clarity.
Over the past eight months, I applied to dozens of jobs and landed some interviews, but I struggled to find work. To stay afloat, I relied on loans from well-off friends and launched a GoFundMe to help me pay my rent.I have less than $2,000 in my bank account, I've been struggling to pay the roughly $1,000 rent for my studio apartment, and I've worried about being evicted.
I recently received a job offer for a catering sales manager role that I'm hoping doesn't fall through. But even with a job, it'll take a lot to climb out of my financial hole.I applied for everything — and still couldn't get hiredSince 2020, I've been either unemployed or underemployed, which has taken a toll on my finances. My most recent role ended in December 2024. When I began my job search, I applied to jobs in four areas I knew well — HR, restaurant management, event and catering sales, and admin work.Since 2020, I've been either unemployed or underemployed, which has taken a toll on my finances. When I began my job search, I applied to jobs in four areas I knew well — HR, restaurant management, event and catering sales, and admin work.
But as the months dragged on, I expanded my search to include dog walking, house cleaning, florist shops, house manager roles, and delivery driving. I even went door-to-door in my neighborhood, handing out résumés at cafés and restaurants.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
I've also applied to more junior-level jobs, but interviewers often expressed concern that I was overqualified or that I'd get bored — even though I was willing to do the work. I just needed a steady paycheck.To try to stand out, I began refining my résumé format over time. I included a brief reason for leaving each job and listed the revenue of my past employers to give a sense of scale — details recruiters have said they appreciate.
I also shifted my strategy from sending a few tailored applications to applying more widely. While my approach landed me interviews, it didn't seem to do much to help me secure employment.
Business Insider has heard from hundreds of Americans over the past year who are struggling to find work as US businesses slow hiring and flatten management structures. Share your story by filling out this quick form and read more below:A laid-off Accenture manager has been job hunting for 21 months. Recruiters keep telling him he's too expensive.A former Microsoft worker has been job-hunting for 9 months. He says it feels like companies are 'looking for Superman.'From six figures to $25 an hour: These struggling job seekers are settling for lower-paying jobs to pay the billsJob searching in 2025? It's a mess no matter how old you are.
I launched a GoFundMe and borrowed money from friendsI've been fortunate to receive some financial support to help keep me afloat. In July, I launched a GoFundMe titled "Help Michele stay housed after job loss" that raised nearly $3,000. One of my friends told me that a GoFundMe had helped him pay rent, so he created the campaign for me.Several generous friends have also loaned me money in recent years and told me I can pay them back whenever I can. Another friend and I arranged a work trade; in exchange for several thousand dollars' worth of financial help, I cat-sit for him when he travels, cook for him once a week, and clean his home twice a month.
Over the past few years, the money from my friends has gone toward expenses related to food, rent, gas, a dentist appointment, a car oil change, and public transportation. Altogether, I owe more than $20,000 in personal debt, in addition to over $20,000 in credit card and bank loan debt.I stretch every dollar to try to conserve money. I shop at Aldi, cook all my meals at home, and don't buy anything non-essential. I rarely use my car, have cut back significantly on air conditioning, and don't travel. I live a few blocks from Lake Michigan, and going there is the closest thing I have to a vacation these days.The financial support I've received so far has helped, but I don't expect any more.
I want to pay off my debt and have a fresh startThe longer unemployment went on, the harder it got. I was doing everything I could to stay afloat.I applied for the catering sales manager role through Indeed, and after several interviews, I got the offer. I'm not sure why this one worked out when so many others didn't, but it aligns well with my past experience, so I feel ready for it.​​My goal is to make some money and pay off my debt. I want a fresh start.
Recommended video
Careers
Job Market
Economy
More
as told to
GoFundMe
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account