This smartphone telescope brought tears to my eyes with stunning photos - how it works | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
This smartphone telescope brought tears to my eyes with stunning photos - how it works
The Vaonis Hestia works with your smartphone to capture stunning photos of the night sky.
Written by
Allison Murray, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 12:30 a.m. PT
Vaonis Hestia
ZDNET's key takeaways The Vaonis Hestia is a smartphone telescope device that retails for $300.The Hestia does well at capturing detailed photos of planets and the stars, and an intuitive app helps guide you.It is an expensive device that takes some getting used to, and the better smartphone camera you have, the better quality photos you will get. $299 at B&H Photo-Video Amidst all the doomscrolling, TV binging, and overworking, we've forgotten to look up at the sky every once in a while. I've made it a point to do so when I received a telescope as a birthday present last year, and it's changed the way I look at life.The telescope I got was a $300 tabletop device, and while it's great for seeing the craters on the moon or even Saturn's faint rings with your own eyes, taking a photo using it is less than ideal. Recently, however, I got a chance to to try out Vaonis' Hestia smartphone telescope -- a device designed to solve this very problem.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Vaonis Hestia The Hestia telescope lets you capture crystal-clear images of the sun, moon, and stars using just your smartphone.
details
View at Amazon The Hestia isn't really a telescope at all, but it aligns your smartphone camera with its ocular to collect and focus the light directly into your smartphone's camera sensor. A six-lens optical design featuring a 30mm objective and 25x magnification allows you to see the planets and stars through the lens of your smartphone (you can check out the list of compatible phones on the company's website), making the sky accessible to anyone. Setting it up is easy enough, as it weighs less than two pounds and attaches easily to a tripod. It works with any smartphone -- just align your phone's main camera onto the Hesita and secure it in place. What really makes the sky come alive is Hestia's free app, Gravity. Also: New photographer? Here's the camera I recommend (and no, it's not a Sony)This well-designed app shows you a map of the sky, allowing you to pick a planet or a star cluster, and uses your phone's GPS to guide you where to aim the device so you can capture a photo. There are different camera "modes" you can choose from, like scenery, sun, moon, deep sky, and planet. I had already dabbled in night sky photography with my tabletop telescope, so I was looking forward to pitting the Hestia against the results I got from a regular telescope and my iPhone 16. As with any type of photography, it takes some playing around with to learn how to best capture the moon. Focusing can be a hit or a miss with the Hestia But once I was able to understand the app and camera modes, the photos I captured were out of this world.
Allison Murray/ZDNETI took a photo of the moon on two separate occasions, and the Hestia does a fantastic job at capturing the moon's craters, contrast, and minute details.
Allison Murray/ZDNETAnd for the deep sky setting, the Hestia stacks together multiple long exposures to build one single image. I pointed up at a star cluster and was actually able to capture little specs of stars on a photo–something that I wasn't even close to being able to do with my iPhone on my regular telescope.
Allison Murray/ZDNETHowever, this device is solely for taking pictures, and while you can still see the stars and moon through your phone, there is something uniquely special about looking through a real telescope lens and seeing the moon up close. In fact, the first time I used my telescope to look at the full moon, tears were brought to my eyes having never seen the moon this close before. Also: My 5 must-have gadgets for off-grid adventuresIn addition, keep in mind that your smartphone's camera quality will affect the overall quality of photos you are able to take with the Hestia. But if you're someone interested in photography or simply capturing moments in the sky, the Hestia is actually a worthwhile device that does a stellar job at taking photos of the night sky that we so often take for granted. ZDNET's buying advice For around the same price as a decent tabletop telescope, you can buy the Hestia if you're main goal is taking photos of the night sky. The app does a great job of guiding you to the right location to capture a detailed photo. If you're looking to dip your toes into photography and want to capture and share photos, the Hestia is worth checking out. It retails for $300 for the bundle that includes a tripod, a carry case, and a dust cover. But you can also purchase it for as little as $189, depending on what accessories you may want. Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Traveling soon? 5 simple ways I thwart phone thieves - and you can too
How the most home-energy savvy slash their electric bills by 78%
DJI's new mini drone is a powerhouse with an upgraded camera, but I have two concerns
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use