Verizon 5G Home Internet Review: Explore Plans, Pricing, Speeds and Availability - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review: Explore Plans, Pricing, Speeds and Availability
Could this telecom company's 5G fixed wireless broadband option work for your household? CNET gives you the scoop.
Article updated on July 24, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Trey Paul
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Trey Paul Former Senior Editor Trey Paul was a CNET senior editor covering broadband. His 20+ years of experience as a writer and editor include time at the broadband marketplace Allconnect, as well as working with clients like Yahoo!, Google, The New York Times and Choice Hotels. An avid movie fan, Trey's career includes being a film and TV critic while pursuing a degree in New York. Expertise Home internet and broadband, including plans, providers, internet speeds and connection types. Movies and film studies. Credentials Master's degree in Cinema Studies from NYU and interviews with Conan O'Brien, Stan Lee and some of his biggest Star Trek childhood idols
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
34353637383940+ Reviews 344345346347348349350400+ Cities/States
Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links.
Unavailable in
Provider unavailable in 90001 Edit ...
Starting at $50
Or call:
Or call to learn more:
877-980-2584
Verizon 5G Home Internet rating How we calculated our rating
7.2/10
CNET Score
We score internet providers for speed, value and customer care. Our data sources include the FCC, J.D. Power, The American Customer Satisfaction Index and extensive in-house research.
Read more
7.2 / 10
SCORE
Speed
7/10
Value
7.5/10
Customer Care
7/10
Pros
No data caps or contracts
Straightforward pricing
Faster download speeds than other fixed wireless services
Cons
Speeds are not guaranteed and can fluctuate
Home customers are second priority to mobile users on the network
Upload speeds are comparable to cable but fall short of fiber
See more pros and cons
Table of Contents
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review: Explore Plans, Pricing, Speeds and Availability
Verizon 5G Home Internet review
Verizon 5G Home Internet plans and pricing
Who can get Verizon 5G Home Internet?
Verizon 5G Home Internet's simple service terms
How does Verizon 5G Home Internet fare against competitors?
Verizon 5G Home Internet perks and promos
What's the bottom line on Verizon 5G Home Internet?
Verizon 5G Home Internet FAQs
Verizon 5G Home Internet reviewFixed wireless internet is now a popular alternative to cable, fiber or DSL internet service. One of my former CNET colleagues observed that it's closing the gap on cable internet. J.D. Power's 2024 residential internet survey highlights that customers prefer the affordability of wireless service over wired. That same survey also shows the prominence of 5G internet in the fixed wireless internet category, with T-Mobile and Verizon leading as 5G internet providers. Fixed wireless delivery also allows a provider like Verizon to expand more quickly than it might with fiber installations. (Though Verizon is looking to speed up its fiber expansion by seeking to acquire Frontier Fiber.) Fixed wireless service connects homes through a receiver that picks up Verizon's cellular signal and then broadcasts it as a Wi-Fi network. Since launching in 2018, Verizon's 5G Home Internet availability has surged. According to its most recent 2025 Q2 report, Verizon now has approximately 5.1 million customers for 5G Home Internet, putting it on pace to reach 8 to 9 million customers by 2028.In very select regions, including parts of Verizon's coverage map, you'll find 5G plans capable of hitting near-gigabit download speeds. That wide availability and high speeds (not to mention the plans that come without data caps, contracts or hidden fees) make Verizon 5G Home Internet especially interesting if you live in an area without high-speed cable or fiber internet access. With its straightforward pricing and service terms, there's a lot to like about what Verizon is selling. Locating local internet providers
Verizon/CNETVerizon 5G Home Internet plans and pricingIt's worth noting that all prices listed on this page reflect available discounts for setting up paperless billing. If you decide not to go with automatic monthly payments, your price will be higher.
Plan Monthly priceMax
speedsFees and service details Verizon 5G Home Read full review $50 ($35 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans)300Mbps download, 20Mbps uploadUnlimited data, no contracts or equipment fees Verizon 5G Home Plus Read full review $60 ($45 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans)500Mbps download, 35Mbps uploadUnlimited data, no contracts or equipment fees Verizon 5G Home Ultimate Read full review $75 ($60 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans)1,000Mbps download, 75Mbps uploadUnlimited data, no contracts or equipment fees
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Locating local internet providers
Like any fixed wireless provider, 5G home internet speeds vary based on factors like network congestion and proximity to a 5G tower. Providers like Verizon may advertise speeds “up to” a certain threshold, but actual performance isn’t always guaranteed.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
Verizon offers three plans, each offering a different speed potential. The standard plan offers max download speeds from 25 megabits per second to 300 megabits per second. You can find faster max speeds with the Home Plus plan, which ranges from 50Mbps to 500Mbps in download, and the Home Ultimate tier, which can get up to 1,000Mbps in select areas. You may see faster typical speeds depending on use, network congestion or proximity to a 5G cell tower. Verizon reports that 5G Home and Home Plus customers should get HD video streaming (1080p) capabilities while those with 5G Home Ultimate will experience 4K video streaming.Even better, all plans have a price lock for at least three years and, unlike many ISPs, equipment rental is included in your monthly bill.
VerizonWhat's the deal with Verizon 5G and Verizon 4G LTE? Fixed wireless internet services don't usually boast the fastest internet connection speeds. Still, it's no wonder that millions of households turn to 5G home internet instead of the high prices and hassles of big internet providers. Fixed wireless connections are a practical option for rural areas and have affordable prices for decent speeds. However, many subscribers might experience network congestion. According to the company website, Verizon claims that "in times of network congestion, we may reduce data speeds or prioritize your data behind other traffic for the rest of that billing cycle." This is the same with Verizon's 4G LTE home internet plan. Moreover, your typical download speeds are between 25Mbps to 50Mbps, with uploads in the single digits. 5G is much faster than that because the standard's millimeter-wave technology (aka mmWave) sends signals at much higher frequencies than LTE. Those higher frequencies can deliver gigabit speeds in the right circumstances but the trade-off is that they don't travel as far and can struggle with obstructions.5G accounts for those high-speed range limitations by mixing slower mid- and low-band signals that travel farther for better coverage. On those frequencies, you can expect your 5G speeds to dip to about 300Mbps on midband or down to double-digit LTE levels on low-band. That's why your 5G mileage will vary as far as speeds are concerned; it all comes down to your home's location.Who can get Verizon 5G Home Internet?
Enlarge Image
Each dot on this Verizon coverage map represents a city with 5G Ultra Wideband access. The red regions of the map indicate where Verizon offers 5G for mobile customers. The dots are likely spots for the strongest 5G Home Internet connections. VerizonVerizon 5G Home Internet is available in many places but it's mostly centered on America's largest metro regions, where the development of 5G infrastructure is furthest along. That puts it on a similar (but much speedier) trajectory to fiber, with service primarily focused in America's largest cities, where the population density makes expansion more cost-effective.That said, deploying new cell towers and upgrading existing ones is generally faster than wiring entire regions for fiber, neighborhood by neighborhood. While availability is still somewhat limited, there's room for hope that 5G might be able to bring faster home internet to underserved parts of the country faster than fiber, cable or other internet types.Plug in your address to determine availabilityEven if Verizon 5G Home Internet is available in your city, there's no guarantee you can get it at your address. Service requires proximity to Verizon's 5G cell towers and a strong, steady signal.My former CNET colleague, for example, lived near downtown Louisville, Kentucky, where Verizon's 5G Home Internet is an option for some. Verizon didn't offer service at his address, even though he had a cell plan with Verizon and service strong enough for his phone to connect over 5G semi-regularly when he was at home. Want to see whether Verizon 5G Home Internet is available at your household? Check out Verizon's availability link and plug in your address.Verizon 5G Home Internet's simple service termsVerizon's terms are about as straightforward as you'll find in the home internet market. The monthly rate includes all taxes and fees and you won't need to pay an additional equipment fee as you will with many providers.Additionally, there are no service contracts, early termination fees or data caps. That means you can use your connection as much as you like without fearing overage charges for using too much data. On top of that, Verizon 5G Home Internet doesn't come with a bait-and-switch promo rate so your bill won't jump after 12 months.All of that is pretty appealing and it matches what we see from AT&T Internet Air, T-Mobile and Starry, the other names of note offering high-speed wireless home internet plans. Like Verizon, they don't enforce contracts, data caps or equipment fees. That seems like a smart strategy for providers hoping to tempt customers into trying something new.How does Verizon 5G Home Internet fare against competitors?AT&T Internet Air is available in 47 states and more than 100 markets. It advertises speeds between 75Mbps and 225Mbps download and 10Mbps to 30Mbps up for a monthly cost of $60, which puts it on par with fixed wireless competitors.T-Mobile and Starry offer appealingly straightforward terms, just as Verizon does, but the prices and speeds are different. For example, consider Verizon 5G Home vs. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet. T-Mobile uses a mix of 5G and 4G LTE signals and offers three speeds (between 72Mbps and 245Mbps and up to 133Mbps to 415Mbps download) for $50 to $70 monthly.Starry is more impressive, as $45 a month gets you download speeds of up to 300Mbps and upload speeds of 50Mbps. That makes it the only wireless internet provider with speeds at the higher end at a value of just 15 cents per Mbps. As for each company's coverage map, T-Mobile offers the most availability, with cellular internet service currently available to more than 50 million households across the US. Verizon now offers 5G home internet service to more than 40 million households and targets 50 million by 2025. Starry is the smallest provider of the group and is available only in Boston, Denver, Los Angeles, New York City and Washington, DC.Verizon 5G Home Internet perks and promosRemember how we mentioned that 5G home internet providers are trying to lure customers from other ISPs? That's certainly the case with Verizon. The company currently offers many sweeteners for anyone thinking about making the switch.The first thing that leaps out at you is that price lock guarantee of three years. That guarantee jumps up to four years if you choose 5G Home Plus and a max of five years for 5G Home Ultimate. Additionally, if your provider charges an early termination fee for ditching it before your contract ends, Verizon will cover up to $500 of that cost when you switch. On top of that, new Verizon 5G Home Internet customers get a 30-day satisfaction guarantee. If you're not happy with your service, you can get a full refund.Verizon 5G Home Ultimate subscribers also get additional perks, including a Wi-Fi extender for greater whole-home coverage and $400 off select Samsung products. Bundling with mobile can save you money Are you already a Verizon mobile customer? Those with select 5G phone plans can snag an additional $15 off their monthly bill when bundling their cellphone plan with Verizon 5G Home Internet. That's a nice incentive to give Verizon a try.Even without that discount, Verizon could offer solid value if your average speeds are high enough. However, it's difficult to say with such a range of potential speeds. For reference, Starry offers $40 a month for speeds of 200Mbps, which comes to about 20 cents per Mbps. With T-Mobile, your average cost per Mbps would be about 20 cents, assuming you're routinely hitting speeds of 245Mbps.As for Verizon, the company says that 5G Home customers should typically expect downloads between 50Mbps and 300Mbps. If your average is 193Mbps, you're paying about 25 cents per Mbps monthly. If you have a strong connection and average download speeds are closer to 300Mbps, that cost per Mbps falls to 17 cents. If the connection is weak and your average is about 85Mbps, the number shoots up to 59 cents. As we said, your mileage may vary.If you choose 5G Home Plus, your monthly figures will be slightly different. Verizon's figures come out to 11 cents per Mbps for average speeds at 650Mbps, 26 cents at 300Mbps and 7 cents at 1,000Mbps. Those numbers dip even lower if you apply the Verizon mobile plan discount.That compares favorably with the top cable providers, who typically charge at least 32 cents per Mbps. Fiber internet still offers the best value, with most plans costing around 17 cents per Mbps. If there's a choice between fiber and 5G, we'll often lean toward fiber.What's the bottom line on Verizon 5G Home Internet?On paper, there's not much to criticize. Verizon 5G Home Internet offers some genuinely outstanding terms and the download speeds could potentially match what you'd expect from cable or fiber. Don't forget that organizations like the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power consistently rank Verizon as a top ISP for customer satisfaction. We wish the uploads were faster than 5Mbps to 75Mbps, especially given that Starry promises uploads as high as 250Mbps, but that might also indicate that there's room for Verizon to improve over time as its 5G network expands.That expansion of 5G infrastructure will be key to bringing availability to more people and strengthening the signal for Verizon's existing customers. If Verizon can continue growing its service map at a fast clip, and its simple, straightforward pricing proves popular, Verizon's 5G Home Internet service might be a game-changer.Verizon 5G Home Internet FAQs
Verizon 5G Home Internet FAQs
What is Verizon 5G Home Internet?
Verizon 5G Home Internet is Verizon's fixed wireless internet service on its mixed low- and mid-band spectrum network. The wireless internet plan allows customers all the perks of a high-speed, wireless internet connection, depending on their home's location. Max download speeds are 1,000Mbps for Verizon's 5G Home Plus Plan and 300Mbps for 5G Home Internet.
Where can you get Verizon 5G Home?
While Verizon Fios (the company's fiber-optic internet service) is offered only in the northeast, Verizon 5G Home is available nationwide to 25 million households, per the latest FCC data. Most of its footprint falls around cities and metro areas. To determine if your location qualifies for service, use Verizon's Check Availability tool to plug in your address.
How fast is Verizon 5G Home?
On average, Verizon 5G Home is faster than satellite internet service and boasts better download speeds than T-Mobile 5G Home Internet. The biggest caveat is that the precise speed and performance you experience will depend on your location. Generally speaking, Verizon says customers should expect typical download speeds of 50 to 300Mbps and up to 1Gbps in select areas.
What's the difference between Verizon Fios and Verizon 5G Home?
One of the biggest differences is that Verizon Fios is a fixed, wired internet service (a 100% fiber-optic internet network), whereas Verizon 5G Home is a fixed wireless internet service. Verizon Fios is only offered in eight states (and Washington, DC), while Verizon 5G Home is available to select addresses nationwide. Finally, Verizon Fios offers either symmetrical or near symmetrical download and upload speeds of 300, 500, 940 and 2,000Mbps (for some areas), while Verizon 5G Home has download speeds that vary between 50 and 300Mbps (up to 1Gbps in some areas) and upload speeds that max out at 75Mbps.
Is Verizon 5G good for gaming?
Verizon 5G is a decent option for gaming, but your best bet is to see if you qualify for Verizon Fios, Verizon's fiber-optic internet plan. According to the latest data from Ookla, Verizon Fios offers symmetrical download and upload speeds and a low latency of 12ms. (Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.) The most important part of a good internet connection for gaming is low latency and quick and reliable speeds. Although Verizon 5G Home Plus boasts speeds up to 1,000Mbps for $80 monthly, that's not consistently guaranteed with a fixed wireless internet provider. Verizon reported 5G latency "less than 30 milliseconds," which is right in the middle of ideal latency speeds but may not stay low consistently.
Does Verizon 5G have unlimited data?
Yes, Verizon offers unlimited data with all its 5G Home Internet plans.
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.