North America's 20 Biggest Airports, Ranked by Traveler Satisfaction - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Transportation
The 20 biggest airports in the US and Canada, ranked by how satisfied passengers are
By
Pete Syme
Passengers at security at Denver International, which ranked 13th.
Robert Alexander/Getty Images
2025-09-17T10:02:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
J.D. Power released its annual North America Airport Satisfaction Study on Wednesday.
The report ranks airports on a 1,000 point scaled based on how happy passengers are with them.
Newark again finished last, while Minneapolis-Saint Paul retained top spot.
Passengers are only growing more satisfied with airports even as they get busier.Several airports reported all-time high passenger numbers last year, and the Transportation Security Administration says it's on track to break 2024's record of 904 million passengers across US checkpoints.
But J.D. Power's North America Airport Satisfaction Study found that overall passenger satisfaction scores are up 10 points on its 1,000-point scale this year.The study, released on Wednesday, is based on 30,439 surveys from Americans and Canadians who traveled through at least one airport in either country within 30 days of taking the survey, between July 2024 and July 2025.It splits the continent's airports into three categories based on size. Mega airports, defined as those handling at least 33 million passengers a year, rank lower on average, with passengers reporting longer wait times and more crowding.
"A big part of this recent increase in passenger satisfaction is due to recently completed improvements in many airport facilities themselves," said Michael Taylor, managing director of travel, hospitality, and retail at J.D. Power.Passengers who rated their airport experience as "perfect" spent an average of $42.39 in the terminal, $16 more than those who rated it as "just OK."
Here's how North America's 20 mega airports ranked according to the passengers surveyed.
20. Newark Liberty International Airport
Newark is a hub airport for United Airlines.
Gary Hershorn/Getty Images
Score: 565/10002024 Passengers: 48.9 millionIt's little surprise that Newark Airport has retained the bottom position for the fourth year in a row. Runway construction and air traffic control issues caused delays of up to five hours in the spring, prompting regulators to cut the number of flights.It's one of United Airlines' seven hub airports, and the carrier operates 70% of Newark's flights.
19. Toronto Pearson International Airport
Toronto Pearson is the only Canadian airport on the list.
Katherine Cheng/SOPA Images/LightRocket via Getty Images
Score: 567/10002024 Passengers: 46.8 millionCanada's busiest airport, Toronto Pearson, has remained North America's second-worst mega airport. Its score did improve somewhat, though, up eight points from last year.2025 has been a difficult year for the airport. In February, a Delta flight flipped over upon landing, injuring 21 people. August also saw Air Canada cabin crew walk off the job in a tense strike, almost entirely shutting down the airline's operations.
18. Charlotte Douglas International Airport
Charlotte's airport fell three places from last year's ranking.
Peter Zay/Anadolu via Getty Images
Score: 581/10002024 Passengers: 58.8 millionThe North Carolina airport had the biggest drop from last year's survey, falling three places to 18th.It's also American Airlines' second-largest hub, behind Dallas/Fort Worth.
17. Seattle-Tacoma International Airport
SEA is Alaska Airline'' main hub.
Stephen Brashear/Getty Images
Score: 583/10002024 Passengers: 52.6 millionThe largest airport in the city home to Boeing, Seattle-Tacoma ranked one spot lower than last year.That's not great news for Alaska Airlines, which handles nearly half of the airport's passengers. It's planning flights to Europe next year since acquiring wide-body planes as part of its merger with Hawaiian Airlines.
16. Chicago O'Hare International Airport
The airport transit system at O'Hare.
KAMIL KRZACZYNSKI/AFP via Getty Images
Score: 586/10002024 Passengers: 80 millionChicago O'Hare is the first airport on this list with a little something to celebrate, rising two places from last year. Its satisfaction score improved by 17 points.It serves as a hub for both United and American.ORD's eight runways are the most of any airport in the world.
15. Los Angeles International Airport
LAX is temporarily removing its iconic sign.
I RYU/VCG via Getty Images
Score: 589/10002024 Passengers: 76.6 millionCalifornia's busiest airport is also the country's third most popular for international flights. It slipped two places this year from 13th.Plus, this month, workers started removing the iconic "LAX" sign as part of a roadway project to reduce traffic congestion. That could help passengers enjoy the airport more, and, fear not, the sign is set to return.
14. Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport
Delta Air Lines' hub is the world's busiest airport.
CHARLY TRIBALLEAU/AFP via Getty Images
Score: 590/10002024 Passengers: 108.1 millionATL is not just the busiest airport in North America, but also in the world. It has 192 gates, seven terminal concourses, and five runways.Atlanta is Delta Air Lines' primary hub, with the airline carrying almost three-quarters of passengers here.It also has the biggest jump on this list, up three places from last year.
13. Denver International Airport
"Mustang," the statue outside Denver's airport.
Taylor Rains/Business Insider
Score: 596/10002024 Passengers: 82.4 millionDenver International Airport is home to a particularly strange statue — a blue horse with red eyes, called "Mustang," that has attracted conspiracy theories.It remained in the same 13th place as in 2024, but its satisfaction score is up eight points.Denver is another United hub, while Southwest also carries nearly one-third of its passengers. It's also the country's largest airport by land area.
=11. George Bush Intercontinental Airport
More than half of the passengers here fly with United.
RONALDO SCHEMIDT/AFP via Getty Images
Score: 606/10002024 Passengers: 48.4 millionFrom here on, all the airports on this list are officially better than average. Each got a score of more than 603 points, the average score among mega airports for customer satisfaction.Houston's George Bush Intercontinental is up two places compared to last year. It's another of United's seven hubs, with the airline handling more than half of the airport's passengers.
=11. Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport
FLL is Spirit Airlines' home base.
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
Score: 606/10002024 Passengers: 35.2 millionThe home base of struggling Spirit Airlines, around 30% of passengers here fly with the budget carrier.JetBlue ranks second with 19%, followed by Delta and Southwest.The airport fell two positions from last year's ranking, but tied for 11th place.
10. Boston Logan International Airport
Logan International was built on top of Boston Harbor.
Rick Friedman/Corbis via Getty Images
Score: 608/10002024 Passengers: 43.5 millionLike a sizable chunk of the city, its airport is built on reclaimed land in Boston Harbor.Named after a state senator and Army general, Logan Airport retains 10th position, narrowly making the top half. Its satisfaction score improved by 17 points.
9. San Francisco International Airport
San Francisco International is ranked as passengers' favorite United hub.
Tayfun Coskun/Anadolu via Getty Images
Score: 613/10002024 Passengers: 52.3 millionSFO may not be as big as LAX, but passengers clearly prefer it to its Southern California counterpart.However, San Francisco International still fell two places this year.It's yet another United Airlines hub — 45% of passengers here flying with the carrier. Plus, it's the highest-ranking of the six such airports on this list. (United's seventh hub, Washington Dulles, is classified as a large airport as it has fewer than 33 million passengers.)
8. Miami International Airport
60% of passengers at Miami fly with American Airlines.
DANIEL SLIM/AFP via Getty Images
Score: 615/10002024 Passengers: 55.9 millionThree in every five passengers here fly with American Airlines.The country's second-busiest airport for international passengers, Miami, is up three spots from last year.However, it was again beaten by another Floridian city on this list.
=6. Orlando International Airport
A man sleeping in Orlando International Airport after a hurricane last October.
Saul Martinez/Getty Images
Score: 618/10002024 Passengers: 57.2 millionOrlando rose one spot from last year to tie with New York's JFK Airport.Around a quarter of flights here are operated by Southwest Airlines.
=6. John F. Kennedy International Airport
A rendering of New Terminal One, set to be completed by 2030.
Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
Score: 618/10002024 Passengers: 63.3 millionJFK is the US' busiest airport for international passengers, with the most popular destination for travelers being London Heathrow.The first phase of JFK's New Terminal One is set to open next year, and the entire 2.6 million square foot terminal is due to be finished by 2030. The project cost $9.5 billion and hopes to be one of the best terminals in the world.However, the airport has fallen two spots from last year, as its satisfaction score dipped by 10 points.
5. Harry Reid International Airport
The Las Vegas Strip and Harry Reid International.
DANIEL SLIM/AFP via Getty Images
Score: 619/10002024 Passengers: 58.4 millionLas Vegas' airport is named for the late Democratic senator and former Senate Majority Leader.Two in every five passengers here fly with Southwest Airlines.It's up one spot from last year, but its satisfaction score slightly dipped.Some travelers may like the convenience of many of the city's casinos being just a stone's throw away, and in-airport slot machines.
4. Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport
DFW is even bigger than Manhattan.
Wirestock/Getty Images/iStockphoto
Score: 620/10002024 Passengers: 87.8 millionAmerican Airlines' primary hub, two-thirds of DFW passengers fly with the carrier. It has risen one spot from last year.Dallas/Fort Worth International is the second-largest airport in the US, covering over 17,000 acres — more than the island of Manhattan.Thankfully for passengers, its elevated Skylink light rail system helps transit between its five terminals.
3. Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport
Phoenix Sky Harbor retained third position.
PorqueNoStudios/Getty Images
Score: 634/10002024 Passengers: 52.3 millionThe top three airports have all kept the same rankings from last year.Like DFW, Phoenix Sky Harbor has an elevated light rail to help carry passengers.Southwest is the largest carrier here, at 34%, closely followed by American.
2. Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport
The ExpressTram at DTW.
Jim West/UCG/Universal Images Group via Getty Images
Score: 649/10002024 Passengers: 33 millionDetroit's main airport barely qualifies as a "mega" airport per J.D. Power's definition, handling the fewest passengers on this list.It remained in second place, but with its score rising six points, it has narrowed the gap to first place. DTW last won top place in 2023.It too has its own light rail for passengers, and is a significant hub for Delta Air Lines, which carries more than half of the flyers here.
1. Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport
MSP is another Delta Air Lines hub.
Michael Siluk/UCG/Universal Images Group via Getty Images
Score: 660/10002024 Passengers: 37.2 millionRetaining the number one spot is another Delta hub. Nearly 60% of passengers at MSP fly with the airline.The airport often ranks high for the percentage of flights that arrive and depart on time.However, passengers were less pleased with Minneapolis-Saint Paul this year. Although it may still be at the top, its satisfaction score fell by 11 points.
Recommended video
Airports
Aviation
United Airlines
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account