Best Internet Providers in San Francisco - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Written by
Ry Crist
,
Cierra Noffke
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Aug 9, 2025
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking. Expertise Smart home technology | Wireless connectivity Credentials 10 years product testing experience with the CNET Home team
See full bio
Cierra Noffke Former Associate Writer Cierra was an associate writer for CNET's broadband team, covering all things home internet. She is a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Wilmington with a master's degree. Cierra is passionate about social justice issues, fiber-optic internet and sourdough bread. When she's not researching and writing about broadband and internet service providers, you can find her reading a book.
See full bio
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
0  Internet providers
90001
Edit ZIP code
How our sort order works
Sort by:
Recommended
Showing 0 of 0
What is the best internet provider in San Francisco?According to CNET broadband experts, Sonic is the best internet service provider in San Francisco. It offers speeds up to 940Mbps and zero data caps for just $50 a month. But if that doesn't persuade you, there are alternatives. Verizon 5G Home Internet, AT&T Fiber and Xfinity are widespread and varied in the area, so if you just miss Sonic's catch area, check out these three ISPs.For residents looking for a more affordable plan, we recommend Astound Broadband. Plans start at $30 for 300Mbps speeds, and go up to $55 for the 1,500Mbps plan (currently discounted). For the fastest internet speeds in the city, Sonic offers up to 10,000Mbps for $50 a month. AT&T Fiber also has multi-gigabit plans of up to 5,000Mbps, while Xfinity offers a 1,200Mbps plan for $100.San Francisco internet providers compared
ProviderInternet technologyMonthly priceSpeed rangeMonthly equipment costsData capContractCNET review score
Astound Broadband Read full review Cable$30-$55300-1,500Mbps$15 (optional)NoneNone7 AT&T Home Internet Read full review DSL hybrid$6018-100MbpsNone1.5TB on some plansNone7.4 AT&T Fiber Read full review Fiber$55-$155300-5,000MbpsNoneNoneNone7.4 Google Fiber Webpass Read full review Fiber$63-$701,000MbpsNoneNoneNone7.5Sonic DSL/fiber$50-$60 5-10,000Mbps$10 (optional)NoneNoneN/A T-Mobile Home Internet Read full review Fixed wireless$50-$70 ($35-$55 for eligible mobile customers)87-415MbpsNoneNoneNone7.4 Verizon 5G Home Internet Read full review Fixed wireless$50-$70 ($35-$55 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans)25-50MbpsNoneNoneNone7.2 Xfinity Read full review Cable$40-$100300-1,200Mbps$15 gateway rental (optional)1.2TB on some plans1 year on some plans7
Show more (3 items)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.Other available internet providers in San FranciscoAstound Broadband: Also known as Wave, Astound Broadband is a cable internet option available throughout San Francisco. Download speeds start at 300Mbps and top out at 1,500Mbps. Astound offers outstanding values at first glance, but all plans offer upload speeds no higher than 50Mbps, which doesn't match fiber internet standards. Still, the pricing offers good value per megabits per second.Etheric Networks: Etheric boasts a vast fixed wireless coverage map, with service covering the entire Bay Area and stretching as far south as Salinas. Etheric Networks offers residential internet service through a wireless connection to the company's hardwired infrastructure. You'll need to schedule a free site survey at your home to see if Etheric is even an option at your address, and while the company doesn't post its prices online, a 2021 Etheric blog post explaining why the service costs more than Comcast gives a good indication that it skews on the expensive side.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
Google Fiber Webpass: None of the Bay Area metros are Google Fiber cities. For that, you'll need to head south to Orange County. San Francisco and Oakland are home to scores of buildings equipped with Google Fiber Webpass. This fixed wireless service uses antennas to send a high-speed signal to multi-dwelling buildings like apartment complexes. Speeds up to a gigabit are possible at some addresses for a flat rate of $70 per month or $63 for a yearly plan.Monkeybrains: Monkeybrains is a local provider of fixed wireless internet services operating in San Francisco since 1998. When you sign up, the company will install an antenna on the roof of your building and run an Ethernet cable into your home -- plug in a router, and voila, internet access. Your speeds will depend on the strength of the signal at your address, and you shouldn't expect anything blazing fast: advertised speeds range between 20 and 50Mbps. At a flat rate of $35 per month, Monkeybrains might be worth a call if nothing else is available.Raw Bandwidth Communications: Raw Bandwidth utilizes a mix of internet technologies to get businesses and residential addresses online and even offers private line service with up to gigabit speeds. Residential service is available in much of San Francisco and surrounding areas, but most homes in that coverage map will have to settle for DSL or even dial-up service, making this an outdated option for Bay Area residents. Speeds won't get any faster than 100Mbps under the best circumstances and will likely be much lower. Still, with no data caps and no prescheduled price increases, Raw Bandwidth might be a good fit for homes requiring basic connectivity for checking email and light browsing.Unwired: Unwired is another local fixed wireless internet provider, advertising services for residents, business owners and people on the move. The service starts at $55 a month but shoots up to $145 a month. Unwired doesn't advertise speeds on their website, but users report getting between 6 and 70Mbps on various plans, which isn't exactly a great value or technically an internet connection, according to the FCC. Still, if you're on the move or you're looking for a temporary internet service, Unwired might be just the thing for you.Satellite internet: Satellite internet from Hughesnet or Viasat is available pretty much anywhere. Still, you shouldn't expect fast speeds, low latency or value since satellite internet often comes with steep equipment costs, tight data caps and long-term service contracts. Starlink, the satellite internet service from SpaceX and Elon Musk, is your third option. It doesn't offer the same universal availability as Hughesnet or Viasat and costs $120 per month, plus $349 for the equipment.T-Mobile Home Internet: For $50 to $70 per month, T-Mobile can connect eligible addresses to the internet over the same wireless airwaves used for mobile connections, including 5G airwaves. The service offers better overall availability than Verizon since it leans on 4G/LTE airwaves as well, but that also means that average speeds are slower, with downloads ranging from 87 to 415Mbps and uploads ranging from 14 to 55Mbps. There are no data caps or contracts with T-Mobile, so it's an appealing option for rural customers in the coverage map without access to faster fiber or cable plans.Cheap internet options in San FranciscoIf you're trying to keep your internet bill as low as possible, you won't need to spend much more than $50 per month with any of San Francisco's top providers. Astound Broadband's $30 a month plan for 300Mbps speed is the cheapest option in the area.What is the cheapest internet plan in San Francisco?
ProviderStarting priceMax download speedMonthly equipment fee
Astound 1500 Read full review $55 1,500MbpsNone Xfinity Connect More Read full review $40 300MbpsNoneSonic $50 10,000Mbps$10 (optional) Verizon 5G Home Internet Read full review $50 ($35 with eligible mobile plan)25-50MbpsNone T-Mobile Home Internet Read full review $50 ($35 with eligible mobile plan)318MbpsNone AT&T Fiber 300 Read full review $55 300MbpsNone Xfinity Fast Read full review $55 500MbpsNone
Show more (2 items)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.How to find internet deals and promotions in San FranciscoThe best internet deals and top promotions in San Francisco depend on what discounts are available during a given time. Most deals are short-lived, but we look frequently for the latest offers.San Francisco internet providers, such as Sonic, Xfinity and Astound Broadband, may offer lower introductory pricing or streaming add-ons for a limited time. Others, including AT&T and Verizon, run the same standard pricing year-round.For a more extensive list of promos, check out our guide on the best internet deals.
Mike Shaw/Getty ImagesHow fast is San Francisco broadband?Although multiple fiber and cable providers cover the Bay Area, San Francisco's internet speeds are relatively slow. The city ranks 72nd on Ookla's list of the cities in the US with the fastest internet speeds, a few spots ahead of Los Angeles and Sacramento, and clocks a median download speed of 215Mbps. (Disclosure: Ookla is owned by Ziff Davis, the same parent company as CNET.)If you're looking for more speed than the SF average, you have many options and ISPs to choose from. Sonic offers the fastest connection in San Francisco, delivering speeds up to 10Gbps in select areas for $50 per month. If you can't get Sonic at your address, AT&T Fiber, Xfinity and Astound Broadband also offer gigabit and multi-gigabit plans.Fastest internet plans in San Francisco
PlanStarting priceMax download speedMax upload speedData capsInternet technology Sonic $50 10,000Mbps10,000MbpsNoneFiber AT&T Fiber 5000 Read full review $155 5,000Mbps5,000MbpsNoneFiber AT&T Fiber 2000 Read full review $125 2,000Mbps2,000MbpsNoneFiber Xfinity Gigabit Extra Read full review $100 1,200Mbps40MbpsNoneCable Astound 1500 Read full review $55 1,500Mbps50MbpsNoneCable Astound 1000 Read full review $35 1,000Mbps50MbpsNoneCable AT&T Fiber 1000 Read full review $55 1,000Mbps1,000MbpsNoneFiber Xfinity Gigabit Read full review $70 1,000Mbps40MbpsNoneCable
Show more (3 items)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.What's a good internet speed?Most internet connection plans can now handle basic productivity and communication tasks. If you're looking for an internet plan that can accommodate videoconferencing, streaming video or gaming, you'll have a better experience with a more robust connection. Here's an overview of the recommended minimum download speeds for various applications, according to the FCC. Note that these are only guidelines and that internet speed, service and performance vary by connection type, provider and address.0 to 5Mbps allows you to tackle the basics: browsing the internet, sending and receiving email and streaming low-quality video.5 to 40Mbps gives you higher-quality video streaming and videoconferencing.40 to 100Mbps should give one user sufficient bandwidth to satisfy the demands of modern telecommuting, video streaming and online gaming.100 to 500Mbps allows one to two users to simultaneously engage in high-bandwidth activities like videoconferencing, streaming and online gaming.500 to 1,000Mbps allows three or more users to engage in high-bandwidth activities like videoconferencing, streaming and gaming.For more information, refer to our guide on how much internet speed you really need.How CNET chose the best internet providers in San FranciscoInternet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it’s impractical to personally test every ISP in a given city. What’s our approach? We start by researching the pricing, availability and speed information, drawing on our own historical ISP data, the provider sites and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov.It doesn’t end there: We use the FCC’s website to check our data and ensure we consider every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. We look at sources, including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, to evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP’s service. ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes; all information provided is accurate as of publication.Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions:Does the provider offer access to reasonably fast internet speeds?Do customers get decent value for what they’re paying?Are customers happy with their service?The answers to those questions are often layered and complex, but the providers who come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend. When selecting the cheapest internet service, we look for the plans with the lowest monthly fee, although we also factor in things like price increases, equipment fees and contracts. Choosing the fastest internet service is relatively straightforward. We look at advertised upload and download speeds and consider real-world speed data from sources like Ookla and FCC reports.To explore our process in more depth, visit our how we test ISPs page.What's the final word on internet providers in San Francisco?If your home is wired for fiber, you're in good shape. Along with fast speeds, fiber internet offers some of the best value in broadband, with costs per Mbps that typically fall well below what you'll get with cable, fixed wireless, DSL or satellite. Service from Sonic costs a flat $50 per month and nets you whatever the best possible speeds are at your address, making it a tremendous value for homes with wiring capable of hitting 10Gbps. Meanwhile, AT&T is more flexible with its fiber service, allowing users to pay less for lower speeds. If fiber isn't available at your address, sticking with a cable provider like Xfinity or Astound Broadband is your next best option.Internet providers in San Francisco FAQ
Does San Francisco have fiber internet?
Yes. AT&T is the largest fiber internet provider in the area, with a fiber footprint covering more than a million locations. That includes multi-gig speeds of up to 5Gbps, which AT&T says are available at roughly one-third of fiber-eligible addresses in the area. Sonic offers fiber internet service at select locations in San Francisco too. Similar to AT&T, most of Sonic's coverage map consists of slower DSL connections.
Show more
How fast are internet plans in San Francisco?
The San Francisco Bay Area boasts a fairly wide range of internet providers, including fiber plans from AT&T and Sonic, cable plans from Comcast Xfinity and Astound Broadband, and fixed wireless service over 5G and 4G/LTE airwaves from Verizon and T-Mobile. Speeds vary by provider, plan and in some cases, by address, but most homes will have access to gigabit-or-better speeds from one provider or another. At some addresses, AT&T Fiber multi-gig speeds as high as 5 gigabits per second may be an option, and Sonic claims to offer fiber speeds of up to 10Gbps, but speeds like those aren't available everywhere yet.
Show more
Is Google Fiber available in San Francisco?
No. Google doesn't offer fiber internet service anywhere in the Bay Area. The company offers its Google Fiber Webpass service at select San Francisco and Oakland locations. Instead of a direct fiber connection, Webpass buildings use a special antenna to receive a high-speed internet signal over the air, with speeds up to a gigabit available in some instances.
Show more
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.