Have a lot of stuff to track? My 5 favorite home inventory apps can help | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Work Life
Productivity
Have a lot of stuff to track? My 5 favorite home inventory apps can help
If you need to better manage your stuff, you might want to consider an app to help you with that. Here are five that I believe do a great job of keeping you organized.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. PT
HomePixel/iStock/Getty Images PlusFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I like to think I'm organized, but I could use a bit of help on this front, especially when it comes to keeping track of my things. For example, I have a large vinyl collection, and I couldn't tell you every album I own. However, with the help of a home inventory app, that task is considerably easier.With an inventory app, you can keep track of anything: food, clothing, tools, games, technology, kitchen tools, appliances, serial numbers, where you purchased an item, and so much more.Doesn't that sound like something you could use?If so, read on because there are five apps here, each of which can help you keep track of anything and everything you own.1. Airtable
Jack Wallen/ZDNETAirtable wasn't exactly created as an inventory management tool, but it can be used for one. With Airtable, you create custom "databases" that can keep track of just about anything you need. Airtable has also added a new AI feature that allows you to describe what you want to do, and it will build it for you. To use this feature, you need an Airtable account, but once you've logged in, you can enter a query to design your inventory management app, and it will be added. It took me five minutes to build my app and start using it. One issue to keep in mind is that when building the app with the AI system, you need to be as specific as possible. For example, make sure that you can edit entries, add categories and rooms, etc. The more specific you can be, the more viable the app is. You can also use one of the hundreds of templates available for Airtable, as well. Airtable is free to use, but you're limited to only 500 AI credits per month. You can find out more about the pricing on the official pricing/feature matrix. Airtable is available for MacOS, Windows, Android, iOS, and web.2. Under My Roof Home Inventory +
Jack Wallen/ZDNETUnder My Roof is a MacOS and iOS-only app, and it's fantastic. With this easy-to-use app, you can keep track of your stuff, maintenance, warranty information, information about your home (such as assessment history, warranty information, square footage, photos, and more), documents and records, renovations and modifications, insurance, and so much more. Also: My 5 favorite Android apps for staying organized - and they're all freeAs you should be able to surmise, this app is an all-in-one for keeping track of your home and the items within. Even better, the app has a well-designed UI that makes it simple to use. The company doesn't have access to your information, so whatever you store in the app is safe from abuse. You can share information with others via cloud sharing, but you are in control of every aspect of that feature. Under My Roof is not free. You can try it out with a 14-day trial period, but after that, it'll cost you $34.99/year or $4.99/month. 3. Find My Stuff: Home inventory
Jack Wallen/ZDNETFind My Stuff is an Android app that ticks all the boxes. This app allows you to create an inventory of pretty much whatever you need to keep organized. With Find My Stuff, you can create a complete home inventory, manage a move, catalog collections, track inventory for rentals, keep track of stock for your business, and more. This app features export to Excel, advanced search, custom tags, show/hide fields, work offline, Google Drive backup, and image upload. One interesting aspect of this app is that you create containers (such as for rooms, closets, attic, basement, garage) and then add inventory to those. Keep in mind that, after you create a container, you then add items. When you first add an item, you'll only give it a name. Once you've done that, you can then edit the item and add fields like price, short description, detailed description, tags, links, dates, barcodes, and more. It does take a bit more time to get up to speed with this app, but once you know it, you'll find it to be an invaluable tool for keeping track of your stuff. To get the full functionality (such as productivity tools), you have to pay a one-time fee of $14.99. You can also add individual features, such as Quantity Thresholds, for $3.99.4. Sortly
Jack Wallen/ZDNETSortly is geared more for businesses, but there is a free option that you can use for home inventory. The free plan does limit you to the number of items you can save, but it does include workflows (not available for the free account), sort, tags, reports, folders, quantity, price, photos, unit variants, and more. As I said, the app was designed for businesses, but you can easily make it work for your personal needs. Also: 5 to-do list apps on Android I recommend for staying on trackOne nice quality about Sortly is, once you sign up for an account, you can install and use the mobile app (on both Android and iOS), so you can access your inventory anywhere. The web-based interface is good, and I prefer it over mobile because it's easier for me to input items. Don't be fooled, however, as the mobile app UI is also good and user-friendly. For household inventory, I would not recommend paying for a plan, as you'll quickly find it to be overkill. 5. Homebox
Jack Wallen/ZDNETOn this list, Homebox is my favorite because I can host it on my own LAN. To do that, you have to know a thing or two about containers, but you don't have to host it yourself. Another favorite aspect of Homebox is that it sets up a lot of things for you, so you don't have to add a bunch of locations before you get started. You can add custom locations (and labels) so the app is perfectly suited to your needs. Currently, there are no mobile apps for either Android or iOS, but you can install a desktop app for MacOS and FreeBSD (download the appropriate installer for your OS and architecture). Most people will probably just use the web UI (which is user-friendly). Keep in mind that Homebox is still in beta. That doesn't mean it should be avoided. I've installed Homebox and found it to be stable. But if using beta software isn't your jam, wait until the full release is available. Homebox is available for free and is open-source.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I used Google Lens to identify my weirdest junk drawer items - here's how it did
Live and work by lists? I found two genius apps that make them even easier to create
10 open-source apps I recommend every Windows user try - for free
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use