Best Wifi Routers 2025 | Top-Rated Home Routers and Network Solutions
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Home Internet
Best Wi-Fi Routers for 2025: Top Picks for Every Home Network
Looking for the best router for your home network? Our experts have picked their favorites after testing 31 of the top routers.
Our Experts
Written by
Joe Supan
Article updated on August 18, 2025 at 2:33 PM PDT
Joe Supan Senior Writer Joe Supan is a senior writer for CNET covering home technology, broadband, and moving. Prior to joining CNET, Joe led MyMove's moving coverage and reported on broadband policy, the digital divide, and privacy issues for the broadband marketplace Allconnect. He has been featured as a guest columnist on Broadband Breakfast, and his work has been referenced by the Los Angeles Times, Forbes, National Geographic, Yahoo! Finance and more.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Wi-Fi routers are among those gadgets that tend to get ignored. Many folks tend not to even shop for one directly, with 71% of the country using equipment provided by their internet provider. Routers are crucial to having a reliable internet connection, which is a deal breaker for a ton of households. That's exactly why we set out to find the best router. To find the top Wi-Fi routers, we spent months testing over 30 of the top wireless routers by writing custom scripts, measuring throughput and carrying a laptop to 61 locations around CNET's lab. We've found the wireless routers that will keep working for years, whether you need that Wi-Fi 7 upgrade, want the best gaming router or want to envelop your home with a mesh system. Our Picks
Best Wi-Fi router overall Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000
Jump to details
$220 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget Wi-Fi router TP-Link Deco X55 Pro
Jump to details
$70 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Wi-Fi router for larger homes Asus RT-AX86U Pro
Jump to details
$170 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Wi-Fi router for gaming Linksys Velop Pro 6E
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Wi-Fi 7 router Eero Max 7
Jump to details
$600 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget Wi-Fi 7 router Netgear NightHawk RS100
Jump to details
$179 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
Table of Contents
Best Wi-Fi Routers for 2025: Top Picks for Every Home Network
What's the best overall Wi-Fi router of 2025?
Best routers of 2025
Best Wi-Fi routers comparison chart
Factors to consider when buying a Wi-Fi router
How we test Wi-Fi routers
Other Wi-Fi routers we tested
What's the best overall Wi-Fi router of 2025?This wasn't a hard choice. The Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000 is the best wireless router overall. Even though it's a couple of years old, this router still kicked butt against all the others. It was the only wireless router to receive a Top 5 score in our throughput tests on both 2.4 and 5GHz bands, meaning it'll deliver the fastest possible speeds over Wi-Fi. It doesn't get you on the ultrawide 6GHz band -- for that, you'll need to upgrade to a Wi-Fi 6E or 7 router -- but for most people, that won't matter. Best routers of 2025
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/6
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best Wi-Fi router overall
Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000
Pros
World-class performance on both the 2.4 and 5GHz bands
Only one router had a lower jitter score on the 5GHz band (perfect if you want to prioritize work or gaming)
Endlessly customizable settings for gaming
Six gigabit Ethernet ports
You can add another Asus router to create a mesh system
Cons
Designed for gamers (and it looks like it)
No 6GHz band, so you won't be able to take advantage of Wi-Fi 7
Signal was easily blocked by walls on the 2.4GHz band
Why I like it: This thing just works. The test results jumped off the screen: It was the only wireless router to score in the Top 5 on both the 2.4 and 5GHz bands in our throughput tests, which measure how fast a router can transmit data to a device wirelessly. The 5GHz band was particularly impressive. We established a baseline of 939 megabits per second through a wired connection on 5GHz; when we moved the GT-AX6000 50 feet away, it barely budged, at 927Mbps. For comparison, the Netgear NightHawk RS700 -- a router that costs more than twice as much -- got only 80Mbps from that distance. The GT-AX6000 also clocked a near-zero 0.03 jitter score on the 5GHz band. In other words, your actions register on your screen nearly instantaneously. That's the kind of performance that's worth paying a little extra for. Who it's for: The GT-AX6000 is clearly marketed toward gamers, but it's a great choice for anyone, regardless of gaming habits. It comes with a ton of nice bells and whistles for gamers -- WAN and LAN aggregation, game console prioritization, simple port forwarding -- but that doesn't mean you have to use them. This router checked every box. It has the latest WPA3 network security standard, automatic firmware updates and parental controls that let you filter websites and apps on specific devices. Who shouldn't buy it: If you have only a handful of devices simultaneously connected to the internet, you probably don't need to plunk down $180 for a high-performing router. I also wasn't crazy about this router's design. All the red lights made me feel like I was mainlining Mountain Dew Code Red. There are some clever ways to hide a wireless router without blocking its signal, like stashing it in a crate or wicker basket, but I wouldn't hold it against anyone who thought this was too much aesthetically. The main drawback from a technical standpoint is that it doesn't give you access to the ultrawide 6GHz band. For that, you'll need to shell out for a pricier Wi-Fi 6E or 7 router.   ... Show more
Get it now
$220 at Amazon
$220 at Best Buy
$180 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Wi-Fi standard
Wi-Fi 6Bands
2.4GHz, 5GHzPorts
USB 3.2, USB 2.0, Six gigabit Ethernet portsAntennas
Four (external)Processor
2.0GHz quad-coreMemory
256MB flash, 1GB RAMAutomatic firmware updates
NoMesh expandability
Yes
Add to compare
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/6
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best budget Wi-Fi router
TP-Link Deco X55 Pro
Pros
Routinely outperforms routers that cost three times as much
Top 10 throughput scores on both bands
You can control the router with Alexa or Google Assistant devices
Ability to add other TP-Link Deco routers to create a mesh system
Cons
Three US departments are currently weighing a ban on TP-Link routers due to ties to Chinese cyberattacks
Jitter and packet loss scores were middle of the pack
Editor's Note: We think you should be aware that TP-Link routers are under investigation by the US government over security concerns and could be banned in the states this year, according to multiple news reports. CNET reported on the potential ban, too, but in the absence of documented evidence to support the allegations, we chose to continue recommending TP-Link as one of our best router choices. In fact, you can read more about why I still use a TP-Link router here.Why I like it: While it's marketed as a mesh system, the Deco X55 Pro works incredibly well as a standalone router, too. If you don't want to spend more than $70, I haven't seen any routers that come close to the speeds from the Deco X55 Pro. It ranked eighth on the 2.4GHz band and an eye-popping second on 5GHz. The only faster router on 5GHz was the $600 Eero Max 7. Though the range on 5GHz was essentially limited to the room the router was in, that's still incredible performance for a $70 router. Who it's for: This router is best for people living in smaller homes or apartments who don't need a lot of customizable features. It's a true "set it and forget it" kind of router. If you're engaging in only low-bandwidth activities, like streaming TV or browsing social media, you probably won't have any issues in a larger home, either. Who shouldn't buy it: People with multistory homes might have some issues in rooms far from the router. Also, online gamers should look elsewhere: The Deco X55 Pro had below-average packet loss scores on both bands, which could result in some frozen or glitchy screens.   ... Show more
Get it now
$70 at Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/7
Best Wi-Fi router for larger homes
Asus RT-AX86U Pro
Pros
Impressive range for a single router
Excellent throughput performance, even at longer distances
Incredibly low jitter scores on both the 2.4 and 5GHz bands
You can add another Asus router to create a mesh system
Four 1Gbps LAN ports with a dedicated "gaming port"
Cons
No 6GHz band, so it doesn't take full advantage of Wi-Fi 7 devices
Packet loss was relatively high, especially on the 5GHz band
Why I like it: It all comes down to range. The Asus RT-AX86U Pro outperformed nearly every other wireless router we tested. Speeds barely dropped off when we moved further away from the router -- 906Mbps on the 5GHz band from 50 feet away, compared to a baseline of 939Mbps with a wired connection. It also comes with every network security feature we looked for: WPA3 certification, automatic firmware updates and adjustable parental controls.Who it's for: Anyone living in a larger home with multiple floors. Short of a full-fledged mesh system that uses multiple routers, this device performed as well as any I've seen when it comes to signals traveling through walls and across vast spaces. If your home is more than 2,500 square feet, you might still need a mesh system or Wi-Fi extender to completely eliminate dead zones, but the Asus RT-AX86U Pro has such strong throughput performance to begin with, you might not even notice the drop-off across rooms. Who shouldn't buy it: Even though it's marketed toward gamers, I'd steer them to our picks for best router overall or best gaming router. That's because the RT-AX86U Pro had higher packet loss scores than I would've liked, falling in the bottom third of Wi-Fi routers we tested. It was still in the range that's considered acceptable for most users, but gamers might notice a frozen screen or moments of high lag on the 5GHz band.  ... Show more
Get it now
$170 at Amazon
$197 at Walmart
$170 at Best Buy
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/7
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best Wi-Fi router for gaming
Linksys Velop Pro 6E
Pros
Lowest all-around jitter and packet loss scores
Access to the ultrawide 6GHz band
-Great price for a tri-band router
Minimalist design that blends with surroundings
Solid range for a single router
Three-year warranty
Cons
Throughput scores were mediocre overall
Why I like it: It's almost unheard of to see a tri-band router for $150. You usually have to pay a premium to get access to the ultrawide 6GHz band, and though it's not as wide as the 6GHz band on Wi-Fi 7 routers, the Velop Pro 6E still returned speeds of 628Mbps through it. I also loved how low-profile this router looks. With a clean, all-white design, this is one router I wouldn't be tempted to hide behind the couch. Who it's for: Gamers, pure and simple. The Velop Pro 6E was absolutely elite where it counts for online gaming: jitter and packet loss. It had a jitter score of 0.19ms on the 2.4GHz band, 0.02ms on the 5GHz and 0.05ms on 6GHz -- all well below the 30ms that’s considered good for online gaming. Its packet loss scores were also exceptional, clocking in at 0.06% on 2.4GHz, 3.06% on 5GHz and 0.05% on 6GHz. No matter which band you're gaming on, you'll get a seamless experience. Who shouldn't buy it: If you won't be doing any gaming, there are better routers out there. The Velop Pro 6E was actually fairly pedestrian when it came to throughput, ranking in the bottom third of wireless routers on all three bands. That's still plenty of speed for gaming -- especially if you're relatively close to the router -- but there are better routers available if you don't need to prioritize ultralow jitter.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/6
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best Wi-Fi 7 router
Eero Max 7
Pros
Incredibly fast tri-band router
Can be used with other Eero routers to create a mesh network
Inconspicuous design
Ultrawide 320MHz channels support the fastest speeds possible
Supports Alexa, Thread, Matter and Zigbee protocols
Cons
Expensive for a single router
Limited range on the 5GHz band
Jitter and packet loss scores were middle of the pack
Why I like it: In one word: speed. The Eero Max 7 averaged 1,513Mbps on the 5GHz band -- good for first place and more than 400Mbps ahead of the next wireless router. On the more exclusive 6GHz band, it returned an average throughput score of 760Mbps, which was third fastest of the tri-band routers we tested. Who it's for: If you just bought a new phone or laptop and want to take full advantage of its Wi-Fi 7 speeds, the Eero Max 7 is a splurge pick that guarantees you the most out of your devices. I'd also recommend it for people paying for a multigig internet plan, or anyone using many smart home devices. That said, the Max 7's range was fairly average, so you may need to add more Eero routers to create a mesh system in larger homes. Who shouldn't buy it: Most people don't need to spend $600 on a Wi-Fi router. This is a router for networking diehards who want the best performance from the latest technology.  ... Show more
Get it now
$600 at Amazon
$600 at Target
$600 at Crutchfield
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/6
Gianmarco Chumbe/James Martin/CNET
Best budget Wi-Fi 7 router
Netgear NightHawk RS100
Pros
Ranked in the Top 10 in throughput tests on both the 2.4 and 5GHz bands
As cheap as it gets for a Wi-Fi 7 router
Cons
No 6GHz band
Only one 2.5Gbps port
High jitter on the 5GHz band
Why I like it: It might be misleading to call this a Wi-Fi 7 router. Without access to the 6GHz band, it's sort of like ordering spaghetti and meatballs and getting a plate of saucy noodles. But in this case, those noodles are really good. The RS100 was the ninth-fastest router we tested on the 2.4GHz band and the fifth fastest on 5GHz. When I asked a Netgear representative what makes this router Wi-Fi 7 if it's missing 6GHz, they told me it supports 4K QAM, which is a key Wi-Fi 7 feature that reduces interference and improves throughput. That showed up in our results, with the RS100 clearly benefitting from faster speeds on 2.4 and 5GHz, even if it is missing 6GHz. Who it's for: This is an entry-level Wi-Fi 7 router that's ideal for someone who has a new phone or laptop that supports Wi-Fi 7 but who doesn't necessarily want to pony up $500 for a router. Even if it weren't labeled as Wi-Fi 7, its throughput scores still stand out for a router at this price. Who shouldn't buy it: If you're paying for an internet plan over 1,000Mbps, it's probably worth upgrading to a more advanced router. The RS100 has only one 2.5Gbps port, so you can expect real-world Wi-Fi speeds to top out at around 1,250Mbps.  ... Show more
Get it now
$179 at Amazon
Best Wi-Fi routers comparison chart
Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000TP-Link Deco X55 ProAsus RT-AX86U ProLinksys Velop Pro 6EEero Max 7Netgear NightHawk RS100 Price $180$70$170$150$600$130Wi-Fi standard 6666E77Frequency bands 2.4, 52.4, 52.4, 52.4, 5, 62.4, 5, 62.4, 5Maximum speed 6,000Mbps3,000Mbps5,700Mbps5,400Mbps9,400Mbps3,600MbpsNumber of Ethernet ports 626245USB connectivity Two ports, supports USB 3.2NoneTwo ports, supports USB 3.2NoneOne port, doesn't support data transferNoneCoverage area (square feet) 5,0002,5005,7003,0002,5002,000Special features Parental controls, smartphone control, device prioritizationParental controls, smartphone control, supports Google Home and AlexaParental controls, smartphone control, mobile gaming modeParental controls, smartphone control, device prioritizationSmartphone control, supports Alexa and Thread, Matter, ZigbeeSmartphone control
Recent updates to our Wi-Fi routers page
In March 2025, CNET entirely overhauled our testing process for Wi-Fi routers. Where our previous tests consisted of one person taking speed tests from five different rooms in our lab, we now use custom-made scripts to conduct our testing and data analysis. Instead of speed tests, we removed the internet provider from the equation and now run data throughput tests to isolate the router's performance independent of fluctuations in the internet connection. Additionally, we measure each router's signal strength at 61 marked locations around the lab. You can learn more about how we test routers below. At the same time that we revamped our testing process for wireless routers, we introduced several of the latest models from the major manufacturers and compared them alongside tried-and-true routers we'd previously recommended. That included six Wi-Fi 7 models and 11 total routers that use the newly opened 6GHz band. I hesitated to recommend Wi-Fi 7 routers when they were first released, but that's changed in the past year. Prices on these routers have come down considerably, and Wi-Fi 7 devices are increasingly becoming the standard. If you bought a new iPhone 16 or Microsoft Surface Laptop 7, it has Wi-Fi 7 built in. (You can also search the Wi-Fi Alliance's database to see which devices are certified Wi-Fi 7.) Even if you don't have any Wi-Fi 7 devices, you may want to pay a little extra for a router to make sure it's future-proof. We've also stopped recommending a few older models that've been staples on our best wireless routers list for a while, including Wi-Fi 5 routers like the Netgear Orbi RBK13. Though routers like these may still perform well in the lab, manufacturers will likely stop issuing firmware updates sooner rather than later. If a router will have up-to-date security only for the next year or two, we couldn’t recommend it in good faith.  ... Show more
Factors to consider when buying a Wi-Fi router
There's a lot of jargon to decode when shopping for a wireless router. For most people (myself included), the flashy specs don't really matter. I just want my internet to work smoothly, all the time. Here are the things worth paying attention to. Wi-Fi standards explainedThese days, you'll mostly see three Wi-Fi standards when shopping for a Wi-Fi router: Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E and Wi-Fi 7. (Some Wi-Fi 5 routers are still on the market, but you can safely pass them by at this point.) These numbers refer to the generation of standards; Wi-Fi 7 is the seventh iteration of Wi-Fi standards. All these standards were developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), a worldwide association of technical professionals. When a device uses the latest standard, an organization called the Wi-Fi Alliance gives its stamp of approval to devices that meet its qualifications.
Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac)Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax)Wi-Fi 6E (802.11ax)Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) Frequency bands 5GHz2.4 and 5GHz2.4, 5 and 6GHz2.4, 5 and 6GHzMaximum bandwidth 80MHz160MHz160MHz320MHzMaximum speed 1.3Gbps9.6Gbps9.6Gbps46Gbps
Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be): Uses the 2.4, 5 and 6GHz bands and doubles the channel size of the 6GHz band from 160 to 320MHz. A typical Wi-Fi 7 laptop could reach "potential maximum" speeds of 5.8Gbps -- 2.4 times faster than the 2.4Gbps possible with Wi-Fi 6 and 6E, according to Intel. Multi-Link Operation (MLO) also allows Wi-Fi 7 devices to simultaneously connect on two bands, providing improved reliability and ultralow latency.Wi-Fi 6E (802.11ax): The first Wi-Fi standard to add in the 6GHz band along with 2.4 and 5GHz. Wi-Fi 6 (802.11ax): A massive upgrade over Wi-Fi 5, Wi-Fi 6 was the first standard to allow your router to divide the channel it's using -- 2.4 or 5GHz --  to send its signals through smaller frequency allocations. This allowed for much faster speeds than the previous generation.Wi-Fi 5 (802.11ac): Wi-Fi 5 used the 5GHz band exclusively. It was the first Wi-Fi standard to exceed 1Gbps maximum speeds, but its range is significantly smaller than Wi-Fi 6. If you think that all sounds confusing, you're not alone. The jump from Wi-Fi 6E to Wi-Fi 7 has been particularly technical. Even though both use the newly opened 6GHz band, only Wi-Fi 7 routers will get the MLO feature. "Whenever I spoke with the Wi-Fi Alliance, they always tried to make people forget that Wi-Fi 6E even existed," said Nicholas De Leon , a reporter covering routers for Consumer Reports (no relation to CNET's Samantha De Leon). "It was kind of a stopgap, Band-Aid solution while on the road to Wi-Fi 7."As if that wasn't confusing enough, some Wi-Fi 7 routers don't even use the 6GHz band. Our pick for the best budget Wi-Fi 7 router, the Netgear NightHawk RS100, is one of them. It's one of the growing wave of "dual-band" Wi-Fi 7 routers, which is a bit of a stretch since they're missing the most important part of the equation. But Wi-Fi 7 is about more than the 6GHz band, said David Coleman, director of wireless networking at Extreme Networks."Wi-Fi 7 introduces several key upgrades that set it apart from tri-band Wi-Fi 6E routers," Coleman said in an email. "For example, Wi-Fi 7 supports 320MHz-wide channels  -- double the size of the widest channels in Wi-Fi 6E -- meaning it can deliver much higher data rates. It also brings 4K-QAM modulation, boosting transmission efficiency by up to 20% compared to Wi-Fi 6E."Keep in mind that you'll need both a Wi-Fi 7 router and a Wi-Fi 7 device to take advantage of the standard's improvements. When Wi-Fi 7 was officially launched, in January 2024, very few devices could actually use it. Today, that list has expanded tremendously and includes the latest iPhones, Microsoft Surface laptops and the PS5 Pro. These Wi-Fi standards are backward compatible, so a Wi-Fi 7 router will still work with a device that has only Wi-Fi 6. Likewise, you can use a Wi-Fi 6 router to game on a PS5 Pro -- you just won't be able to fully take advantage of its improved speeds. Single routers vs. mesh systemsMesh routers use multiple devices to relay a better Wi-Fi signal throughout your home, with fewer dead zones. They're likely the right approach if you live in a large, multistory home or if there are multiple spots where you can't connect as reliably as you'd like.There are many great mesh systems available at this point, and prices have come down significantly in the last few years. For more information and our top recommendations, be sure to check out our full rundown of the best mesh Wi-Fi systems of the year.Speed ratings demystifiedWhen shopping for Wi-Fi routers, you'll often see designations like "AC1900" or "AC3150." The idea is to give you a quick sense of which version of Wi-Fi a given router supports ("AC" for Wi-Fi 5, "AX" for Wi-Fi 6, and so on) as well as its speeds. Take that speed number with a big grain of salt. It tells you the sum total of the maximum theoretical transfer rates across each of the router's bands, which will almost always be much higher than the speeds you get as a user. Take our top overall pick, the Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000. The "AX6000" tells you it's a Wi-Fi 6 router that supports speeds of up to 6,000Mbps. When you add up the two bands, you'll get to 6,000Mbps, but you won't necessarily be able to get all that speed on one device. Even that's probably a stretch, as those top speeds are measured in optimized lab conditions, not real-world environments. The exception to this rule is if you're using a Wi-Fi 7 router with a Wi-Fi 7 device. In that case, your router will be able to use Multi-Link Operation to connect to different bands at the same time. Coverage considerationsWill a single wireless router be able to broadcast a Wi-Fi signal throughout your entire home? No matter how good the router, you'll always see a significant speed drop-off in rooms far away from the router.
Even our pick for the best Wi-Fi router for larger homes, the Asus RT-AX86U Pro, experienced some drop-off across CNET's 12,500-square-foot testing facility. Samantha De Leon/CNETMany Wi-Fi routers list coverage areas north of 5,000 square feet, but I recommend switching to a mesh system if your home is larger than 2,500 square feet. That said, it's a matter of percentages. If you have a multigig internet plan, you'll still get plenty of speed for streaming TV or browsing social media in a far corner of a 5,000-square-foot home. But you'll probably have issues if you're starting with only 100Mbps.Additionally, the type of home you live in -- not just the size -- can affect your Wi-Fi signal."A lot of it depends upon housing construction," said De Leon. "I've got family down in Puerto Rico and Florida, where a lot of the houses are concrete, and that obviously just destroys Wi-Fi signals."Frequency bands and channel widthYou can think of your router like a radio -- it sends and receives signals through airwaves. Whereas a radio picks up audio broadcasts in AM or FM airwaves, a Wi-Fi router sends and receives data through 2.4 and 5GHz airwaves (as well as 6GHz airwaves if it's a fancy Wi-Fi 6E or Wi-Fi 7 router). Nearly all routers include separate radios for those bands, which lets you connect to whichever band is best. Some routers will automatically steer your connection between the multiple bands available, but you can usually turn that off as well, making each band its own, separate Wi-Fi network. The 2.4GHz band offers a better range than higher bands, but speeds are limited. With 5GHz (or 6GHz), you can hit much faster speeds, but those speeds will drop off faster than you'll see with 2.4GHz as your device's distance from the router increases.In general, the 5GHz band is your best bet for a reliable, high-speed connection at close and medium range, and the 2.4GHz band is great for devices at the far reaches of your Wi-Fi network, where the improved range is worth the speed trade-off.Ethernet and USB connectivityTypically, the more high-end the router, the more Ethernet ports you'll see. These let you plug a device directly into your router. A wired connection is inherently much stronger than Wi-Fi; in one test, a CNET writer got 395Mbps download speeds through Ethernet and 126Mbps through Wi-Fi. If there's one device that you absolutely want to get the best connection to, an Ethernet cable is the way to go. Ports are often marketed as "gigabit Ethernet ports," which means they're capable of delivering gigabit speeds through a wired connection. The more ports a router has, the more devices you can connect this way. USB ports on Wi-Fi routers have several different use cases. You can use them to connect devices like printers directly to your router, which allows you to share them with the rest of the devices on the network. You can also attach an external hard drive to the router to share its contents with other devices on the network. Security featuresAny router you look at should have WPA3 certification at minimum. This is the most recent security protocol issued by the Wi-Fi Alliance, and it ensures that the router follows best practices that encrypt data and make passwords harder to crack. "Honestly, as long as it has WPA3, that's probably the big security thing to look for," said De Leon.He also recommended looking for routers that support automatic firmware updates. Not all the routers CNET recommends automatically update firmware. One of the manufacturers I spoke with said it's received "quite vocal feedback from the community" against them, as they can affect network performance. Whether they're automatic or not, the main thing to know is that the manufacturer regularly issues updates and that they're easy to install. QoS and traffic managementMany routers come with Quality of Service (QoS) settings that let you prioritize specific devices on the network. If you wanted to make sure your work computer was in line ahead of your kid's Nintendo Switch, for instance, you could adjust this in the settings. Our best overall router, the Asus ROG Rapture GT-AX6000, has traffic management settings designed specifically for gaming, but you could use them on any device you want to get the best connection.Parental controls and family featuresMost routers these days come with some form of parental controls. These can usually be set through the router's app, and they let you automatically restrict access to specific websites or any adult content. You can often set up a schedule for when a device can access Wi-Fi, or even set daily limits. Smart home integrationSome routers, like the Eero series, work with voice assistants like Alexa to let you control the router with your voice. You can also use Amazon Echo devices as mesh nodes and access points with your network. Others, like TP-Link, let you control Tapo, Kasa, Philips Hue and Matter smart home devices through the TP-Link Deco app. Mobile apps and managementApp management is the norm for routers these days. All our top picks can be set up through the smartphone app -- most of them require it -- and you can control your network through the app as well. This lets you see which devices are connected to your router, manage your network remotely or set up parental controls.Processor and RAMThe processor in a Wi-Fi router is like its brain. It determines how well the device can manage your network's traffic and perform multiple tasks simultaneously. All our top picks use a quad-core processor (when publicly listed), which is the standard in 2025. Not all quad-core processors are created equal, though. The A73 processor used by the Eero Max 7, for example, is considered significantly more advanced than the A53 processor used in the Eero Pro 6E. A router's storage capacity can also affect how well it performs. This is usually broken up into RAM and flash. RAM, short for random-access memory, affects the router's ability to process data, while flash storage typically houses the router's settings. Mesh expandabilityIf you're not sure whether a standalone router or a full-fledged mesh system is right for your home, some routers offer a nice middle ground, allowing you to add more routers to create a mesh system later on. You'll be limited to buying another router from the same brand (and possibly product line), but it's a nice option if you don't want to invest in a mesh router right off the bat. Budget considerationsHow much you should spend on a Wi-Fi router depends on what you need and how many people and devices need to connect, but a small- to medium-size home or apartment can probably get by with a well-tested dual-band router in the $130 range. If your home is larger, it's probably worth spending more on a mesh system that can spread more consistent speeds from room to room. If you're working from home, gaming online or sharing bandwidth with multiple housemates or family members, upgrading to something like a high-speed tri-band router is probably a good investment too. How we test Wi-Fi routers
CNET uses custom-made scripts to carry out our testing and data analysis. We focus on three main measurements when testing routers: speed, reliability and distance. We want to know how well a router will translate the internet coming in from your provider to a wireless connection, and we want to know how far it can do it -- even with obstacles like walls and floors in the way. To capture all three of these measurements, we conduct two types of tests: data throughput and signal strength. CNET's testing is unique because we entirely remove the internet provider from the equation. Even the most reliable internet connections are fairly erratic: Factors like time of day, network congestion and even the condition of your neighborhood's broadband infrastructure can all affect your internet speed. To make sure these variables didn't skew our analysis of each router, we set up a separate server to measure the raw throughput of data from the router to a device, bypassing the need for an internet connection entirely.  Learn more: How We Test Wi-Fi RoutersData throughput tests
Here I am running a throughput test close to the router.
Adam Breeden/CNETTo see how fast a router will perform in real-world conditions, we measure its throughput, or the volume of data the router actually transmits during a period of time. All Wi-Fi signals travel through 2.5GHz and 5GHz radio frequencies -- that's why most routers you'll see are referred to as "dual-band." (Tri-band routers use an extra set of channels in the 6GHz band.) To start, we conduct a wired measurement on the 2.5GHz, 5GHz and, when available, 6GHz bands to establish a baseline. This is as fast as throughput can get for the router over each band, so it's a good point of comparison for our wireless tests. From there, we take five different wireless throughput measurements, 60 seconds each, mimicking a household with five devices connected to the router with different throughput needs. These wireless measurements are taken from three different distances from the router: 7 feet, 25 feet and 50 feet. As any online gamer or remote worker can tell you, speed isn't the only factor in evaluating routers. Just as important is jitter, which measures the variations in latency, or the time it takes for data to arrive at its destination. When you're in a video meeting and there's a delay in audio or someone's video freezes, jitter is the culprit. We felt jitter was a better measure than latency when evaluating a router, as average latency can show up in testing as low, even when an internet connection is glitchy.  These tests also captured packet loss, which tells us whether any data failed to reach its destination during the test. You'll often see packet loss as a frozen video screen or a garbled voice during a video call. With both packet loss and jitter, a lower score is better. Signal strength
CNET Labs technician Samantha De Leon makes her way around the facility's 61 marked locations to test each router's signal strength.
Adam Breeden/CNET
Signal-strength tests are taken at 61 marked locations around CNET's labs for each router's 2.4GHz and 5GHz frequency bands.  Samantha De Leon/CNETThe second step in our testing is to measure each router's wireless signal strength and broadcasting capability. To capture this, we used NetSpot, a wireless site-survey and analysis tool. This test also shows how well a router handles interference from other objects and networks you'd find in your home, like TVs or your neighbor's Wi-Fi. CNET's labs have many electronics being tested around the facility, and it shares walls with other businesses, so there's plenty of interference for a router to work through. We taped targets in 61 locations around CNET's 12,500-square-foot testing facility to see how well each router transmitted data past obstacles like walls and electronics. As expected, the 2.4GHz band had better range than the 5GHz band, which sends a stronger signal at a closer range.
The Asus RT-AX86U Pro, our pick for the best router for larger homes, had excellent range on the 2.4GHz band, pictured above. Samantha De Leon/CNETIn the signal-strength maps, the numbers refer to decibels relative to a milliwatt (dBm), and they indicate how strong the Wi-Fi signal is at a given location. A value like -55 dBm is considered strong enough and typically correlates with high throughput. Here's how to interpret the numbers on signal-strength maps:-15 dBm -- Extremely strong (almost on top of the router)-30 dBm -- Excellent signal-45 dBm -- Very good signal-60 dBm -- Good, supports most tasks-75 dBm -- Weak, may see drops in speed/stability< -80 dBm -- Very poor, likely unstable or unusableIn the example above, the Asus RT-AX86U Pro never dipped below -55dBm -- even when it was on the other side of the 12,500-square-foot lab. That's incredible range for a standalone Wi-Fi router.  Other Wi-Fi routers we tested
In total, we tested 31 routers at CNET's lab in this initial round, and we're constantly trying out new models as they become available. Here are some other solid performers, which barely missed out on being top picks. Netgear Nighthawk RS700S: A close second place for the best Wi-Fi 7 router. It was the fastest router we tested on the 6GHz band, but it finished near last place on 5GHz. That might not be a big deal if all your devices are Wi-Fi 7 compatible, but that's not the case for most of us. If you're going to spend $500 on a router, the Eero Max 7 is a more well-rounded choice. Netgear Nighthawk RS300: There's a ton of value here. A tri-band Wi-Fi 7 router for under $300 is a rarity, and the Nighthawk RS300 delivered on every single band. Ultimately, the Eero Max 7 was slightly faster on each band and had better all-around jitter and packet loss results, so it earned our top pick for the best Wi-Fi 7 router. But at half the cost, the Nighthawk RS300 isn't a huge step down in performance.   Synology WRX560: This Wi-Fi router actually scored first place in our 2.4GHz tests, earning a throughput score of 127Mbps. But everywhere else, it lagged behind. It was the 19th fastest router on the 5GHz band, and its packet loss scores were close to the bottom. That might be forgivable for a budget router, but at $243, the WRX50 is definitely not that.TP-Link Archer AX21: At $55, this was one of the cheapest Wi-Fi routers we tested, and it generally performed like it. It ranked 20th in throughput on the 2.4GHz band and 17th on 5GHz. That sounds pretty mediocre, but it translates to 700Mbps on 5GHz -- far more horsepower than most homes need -- and its signal strength was impressive, too. I still think it's worth paying a bit more for the TP-Link Deco X55 Pro, but if you're looking for the absolute cheapest router you can find that still works, the AX21 is a worthy option. TP-Link Archer AX55: The AX55 ($70) is a popular pick on other "best Wi-Fi routers" pages, and I was anxious to see how it landed in our tests. Ultimately, it landed with a thud. The dual-band Wi-Fi 6 router ranked in the bottom third for throughput on both bands, and though its jitter scores were acceptable, they certainly weren't a strength. About the only thing the AX55 had going for it was decent signal strength. TP-Link's Archer AX21 ($55) and Deco X55 Pro ($68) both offer much better all-around performance. TP-Link Archer AXE75: A tri-band Wi-Fi 6E router for $130 sounds a little too good to be true. In fact, TP-Link is currently being investigated by the US Justice Department for potentially selling goods below cost (more on that below). But there's no denying this router's value. It performed well on all three bands, and though it's missing some of the newer features of Wi-Fi 7, it still gets you access to the ultrawide 6GHz band for an incredible price.
Wi-Fi Router FAQ
When should you get a new Wi-Fi router?
There are two situations in which I'd recommend upgrading your router: if you're experiencing connectivity issues or if the manufacturer stops issuing firmware updates, which usually happens about five years after a device's release.You should generally upgrade your router only if you're having issues with it -- if your connection drops out regularly, you're getting a spotty signal in some rooms, or a buffering wheel appears every time you try to stream something. In short, if you're noticing your router at all, it's probably time to upgrade it.  Router technology moves fast. A few years ago, Wi-Fi 6 models were the hottest new routers on the market. Fast-forward to 2025, and some brands have shelved their Wi-Fi 6 routers in favor of faster Wi-Fi 7 options. If you've bought a new device in the past year, like the iPhone 16 or the PS5 Pro, it probably supports the newer Wi-Fi 7 standard. That means if you want to maximize your phone's speeds, you'll need a router that can take advantage of it. On top of that, a growing number of mesh router options are well worth considering, particularly since many of them are far less expensive than the router combo systems that came before them.
What does a Wi-Fi router do?
You need to be connected to your modem to send and receive data from the web; your router lets you do that without the need for a wire. It's effectively a big, fancy antenna for your modem that lets you connect with it wirelessly, over Wi-Fi. You can also use that local Wi-Fi network to connect with other devices at home, like printers or remote storage servers.
Do I need a mesh Wi-Fi system or is a single router enough?
Mesh routers use multiple devices to relay a better Wi-Fi signal throughout your home, with fewer dead zones. They're likely the right approach if you live in a large, multistory home or if there are multiple spots where you can't connect as reliably as you'd like.There are many great mesh systems available, and prices have come down significantly in the last few years. For more information and our top recommendations, check out our full rundown of the best mesh Wi-Fi systems of the year.
What security features should I look for in a Wi-Fi router?
The two major security features you should look for in a Wi-Fi router are WPA3 certification and regular firmware updates. All the routers we recommend are WPA3 certified by the Wi-Fi Alliance. Ensuring the manufacturer is still issuing firmware updates for the router is also essential -- and it's even better if they're done automatically. "Additional optional features include parental controls, device and traffic monitoring, and MAC address filtering, which all enable an additional level of control over the users on a network," said David Coleman, the director of wireless networking at Extreme Networks.
How do I optimize router placement for the best coverage?
Place your router in a central location in the home, off the ground, and away from walls. "The main factor you have to consider is that Wi-Fi travels very well over open air, and it travels very poorly through hard material," Julian, a technician with ThoseTechGuys in Renton, Washington, told me in a previous interview. "The best place to put a router is centrally located out in the open away from any cabinets, kitchen, plumbing, walls, things like that."
How do I set up a Wi-Fi router?
The old-fashioned way is to plug the thing in and connect it to your modem via Ethernet cable, then type its IP address into a browser's URL bar to begin the setup. The easier, more modern way is to use the router's app, which will typically walk you through setup in about 5 to 10 minutes. After setup, you can also use either approach to access the router's settings or change your Wi-Fi password.
How much should I spend on a router?
It depends on what you need and how many people and devices need to connect, but a small- to medium-size home or apartment can probably get by with a well-tested dual-band router in the $130 range. If your home is larger, it's probably worth spending more on a mesh system that can spread more consistent speeds from room to room. If you're working from home, gaming online or sharing bandwidth with multiple housemates or family members, upgrading to a high-speed tri-band router is probably a good investment, too.
About the Author
Joe Supan Senior Writer Joe Supan Senior Writer
Joe Supan is a senior writer for CNET covering home technology, broadband, and moving. Prior to joining CNET, Joe led MyMove's moving coverage and reported on broadband policy, the digital divide, and privacy issues for the broadband marketplace Allconnect. He has been featured as a guest columnist on Broadband Breakfast, and his work has been referenced by the Los Angeles Times, Forbes, National Geographic, Yahoo! Finance and more.
Read full bio
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.