Hannover Is One of the Best Reinsurers | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Company Reports
Hannover Rueck SE Registered Shares Hannover Rueck SE Registered Shares
HNR1: XETR (DEU)
View Stock Summary
Morningstar Rating for Stocks
Fair Value
Economic Moat
Capital Allocation
€699.00KkjnlSwbtcdgxf
Hannover Is One of the Best Reinsurers
Henry Heathfield
Sep 25, 2025
Share
Stock Analyst Note
Reinsurance: While Climate Change Could Drive Volume, Headwinds Coming From a Soft Cycle
Henry Heathfield
Sep 25, 2025
Business Strategy and Outlook Hannover is probably one of the most efficiently run reinsurers in our European reinsurance coverage. The business is based in a low-cost location, and the number of employees that support the business is more efficient than at peers. We believe that the combination of its low-cost location, lean and flat structure, organic growth over acquisitions, and homogenous technology have made the group the most expense-efficient European reinsurer we cover. Versus larger peers, we think Hannover is a more agile and nimbler organization, and its focus on brokers as its primary channel would support this. Through these brokers, Hannover supports insurance companies, mutuals, and governments as clients.
Share This Report
Company Report Archive
View All
Stock Analyst Note
Reinsurance: While Climate Change Could Drive Volume, Headwinds Coming From a Soft Cycle
Henry Heathfield Sep 25, 2025
Company Report
Hannover Is One of the Best Reinsurers
Henry Heathfield Sep 25, 2025
Stock Analyst Note
Hannover Re Earnings: Misses in a Few Key Areas; Higher Large Losses and a Turning Market
Henry Heathfield Aug 12, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility