We Tried the $175 Papier Advent Calendar: Worth the Hype?
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
KATIE BANDURSKI FOR TASTE OF HOME
Home
News
New Products
We Tried the Papier Stationery Advent Calendar That Sells Out Every Year
KATIE BANDURSKI FOR TASTE OF HOME
By
Katie Bandurski
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 23, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
This beauty comes with impressive contents—and a $175 price tag. Is it worth the hype?
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
There’s something so nostalgic about sending Christmas cards. Even though I’m a “zillennial” who’s never known life without the internet, I look forward to sitting down and writing notes to my friends and family each holiday season. Call me old-fashioned, but I’m a big proponent of handwritten thank you notes, birthday greetings and letters, too!
If you also love sending snail mail, hold onto your pens. I just found the perfect Advent calendar for stationery lovers. Here’s everything you need to know about the 2025 Papier Advent calendar—including if it’s worth the $175 price tag.
KATIE BANDURSKI FOR TASTE OF HOME
We Tried It
Papier Stationery Advent Calendar
This luxury countdown is loaded with 24 desk delights that make crafting snail mail a dream.
Shop on PapierShop on Selfridges
What Is the Papier Advent Calendar?
The Papier Advent calendar is a countdown stuffed with stationery products. It’s advertised as “24 days of desk delights” and includes an array of items for scrapbooking, staying organized and enjoying life’s slower moments. You’ll find a mix of mini brand bestsellers, as well as some items exclusive to the Advent calendar.
Last year’s Papier Advent calendar did sell out, so if you want one, you’ll have to act fast.
How I Tested It
When Papier offered to send a sneak peek of their 2025 countdown, I couldn’t say no! Here is my honest review.
Packaging
KATIE BANDURSKI FOR TASTE OF HOME
The Papier Advent calendar showed up on a Friday afternoon. It was shipped in a standard brown box. I had, of course, seen the listing photos online, but they were nothing compared to encountering the countdown in person. I genuinely gasped when I pulled the rich, berry-hued box from its packaging. It’s shaped like a giant letter, just begging to be opened.
I pulled the ribbon open, which unveiled three glorious layers of individually wrapped stationery items. Two drawers opened to the side, revealing even more goodies, and there was a third drawer tucked at the bottom.
Each tiny package is wrapped in a stunning, origami-like paper box. There were various sizes and shapes, but each day of the countdown fit the color scheme of burgundy, navy, emerald green, cream and pink. The entire package is gloriously cohesive.
Contents
KATIE BANDURSKI FOR TASTE OF HOME
But what’s all inside? In the name of testing, I dug right in and started opening each tiny box of treasures. I won’t give away all the surprises, but this calendar really does live up to its promise of “desk delights.” Each box unveiled sleek stationery supplies, like pens, sticky notes, washi tape, erasers, bookmarks, tiny journals, stamps and stickers. Even better, all of the supplies were just as cohesive as the packaging and relied on the same holiday color scheme.
Plus, while many Advent calendars rely on a drawer-style system for revealing contents, the Papier Advent calendar treats each day as its own little gift. I loved the joy of unwrapping almost as much as the actual contents.
It’s also refreshing to find a non-edible countdown to welcome in the holiday season. While I love the copious options on the market for tea, chocolate, coffee and booze, it’s nice to find a practical option you can enjoy for months after the season ends.
Reuse
KATIE BANDURSKI FOR TASTE OF HOME
The 2025 Papier Advent calendar is committed to sustainability. The brand advertises that its paper is always ethically sourced and its plastic-free packaging is recyclable. However, I don’t think you’ll want to toss this calendar in the bin after the holiday season! The luxe boxes are just begging to be reused in a fun way.
The options are only as limited as your creativity, but I came up with a few ideas while unboxing:
A recipe box. The giant envelope box with pull-out drawers would be perfect for stashing recipe cards, website printouts and handwritten notes. I imagine each drawer would correlate to a season or course.
Craft storage. Every crafter is familiar with the seemingly endless bits and bobs needed for their art. This box would be perfect for holding buttons, thread, patches and other tiny supplies.
A memory box. After my wedding, I had a boatload of odds and ends I wanted to keep: Polaroid shots, vow books, a few pressed flowers, cards from loved ones, etc. This box would be the perfect vessel for organizing mementos from our winter wedding.
Gift tags. The smaller boxes will definitely be reused as gift tags when wrapping presents. They’re such a fun size for tucking an ornament, gift card, or other small trinket onto a larger gift. You could even use pens from the calendar to write out a sweet note to the recipient!
Pros
Pretty, polished stationery products for any paper lover
Impeccable packaging
You get to unwrap a gift every day
Practical items you’ll actually use
Boxes can be repurposed
Cons
Elevated price point
Is it Worth the Hype?
If you love sending snail mail and treat staying organized as an Olympic sport, the Papier Advent calendar is for you. There’s no denying the countdown is pricey, but it’s packed with high-quality products any paper lover will adore. The luxurious, reusable packaging is the cherry on top. I’ve tested dozens of Advent calendars over the years, and this is the best option for anyone who wants to feel like they’re opening a small gift in the days leading up to Christmas. The sleek, beautiful design and practical, thoughtful inclusions will leave you ooh-ing and aah-ing all December long.
Where to Buy
KATIE BANDURSKI FOR TASTE OF HOME
We Tried It
Papier Stationery Advent Calendar
This pricey countdown is worth it for serious stationery lovers.
Shop on PapierShop on Selfridges
You can shop the 2025 Papier Advent calendar on the brand’s website. It retails for $175, but the contents are said to be valued at $250. Act fast! Last year’s calendar sold out, and this year’s countdown is expected to do the same.
Author
Katie Bandurski
As Taste of Home's senior shopping editor, Katie connects readers with the best gifts, kitchen gear and home items on the market. An avid foodie and a holiday enthusiast, Katie is an expert at cultivating meaningful moments. Before joining the shopping team, Katie worked as a digital staff writer at Better Homes & Gardens and on the Taste of Ho...
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box