American Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted media
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancements
Tablet meets laptop in this $170 open-box Asus Chromebook deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityAmerican Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted media
American Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted media
By Bill Toulas
September 22, 2025
04:25 PM
1
​A vulnerability in the American Archive of Public Broadcasting's website allowed downloading of protected and private media for years, with the flaw quietly patched this month.
BleepingComputer was tipped about the flaw by a cybersecurity researcher who asked to remain anonymous, stating that the flaw has been exploited since at least 2021, even after the researcher previously reported it to the organization.
After contacting AAPB about the flaw, a spokesperson confirmed the issue, and the researcher validated that the fix was implemented within 48 hours.
"We're committed to protecting and preserving the archival material in the AAPB and have strengthened security for the archive," stated AAPB's Communications Manager, Emily Balk, to BleepingComputer.
"We look forward to continuing to make public media history free and accessible to the public."
The American Archive, operated by WGBH Educational Foundation (GBH) and the Library of Congress, is a public nonprofit archive whose mission is to collect, digitize, and preserve historically significant content produced by public radio and television in the United States.
BleepingComputer was told that the AAPB vulnerability first circulated as a rumor in online discussions about the leak of the Sesame Street "Wicked Witch of the West" episode on the Lost Media Wiki Discord channel.
Lost Media Wiki took down the episode, saying that it was "likely obtained in an illegal data breach," urging members to refrain from re-sharing it on its Discord channel.
Initially secret, the exploit method began circulating in Discord preservation groups by mid-2024, leading to further leaks of protected content on Discord servers focused on content preservation.
Known as data hoarders, these communities dedicate themselves to archiving software, websites, operating systems, and various forms of media, including TV shows, music, and movies. However, they often operate in a gray area, where copyrighted content is preserved and shared, blurring the line with digital piracy.
Even with AAPB's takedown efforts, the exploit continued to circulate on various Discord servers and messaging apps, with a proof-of-concept shared with BleepingComputer showing just how easy it was to abuse.
The exploit shared with BleepingComputer is a simple Tampermonkey script that exploits an insecure direct object reference (IDOR) flaw, allowing users to request media files by ID and bypass AAPB's access controls.
The bug enabled users to change the media ID parameter in media access requests, allowing them to access resources by the ID, even if they were protected or private.
Although the main /media/{ID} pages had some access controls, attackers could bypass them by tampering with fetch or XMLHttpRequest calls made in the background.
Instead of AAPB's server rejecting those requests with a '403 Forbidden' error, as long as the request had a valid media ID, the content was served.
While the vulnerability has now been fixed, it is not known how much content was accessed and shared within the data hoarder community.
The leak of content at American Archive followed another incident earlier this year, where PBS employee contact information was leaked and spread through Discord servers for fans of 'PBS Kids.'
Both incidents illustrate how archival and fan communities can gain access to sensitive or private data, even when it's not used for malicious purposes.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoorsUnpatched flaw in OnePlus phones lets rogue apps text messagesLibraesva ESG issues emergency fix for bug exploited by state hackersSolarWinds releases third patch to fix Web Help Desk RCE bugFBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
American Archive
Discord
Piracy
Video
Vulnerability
Web Application
Website
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
Mr.Tom
-
1 day ago
I've been trying to find a show called The 90's for a long time. "You're in the 90's". I believe it was a PBS show. It's been a while since searching, but I'd really like to rewatch that sometime.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT