Magic Cookies Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Giant Monster Cookies
Sugar Cookies
Magic Cookie Bars
Molasses Sugar Cookies
Secret Kiss Cookies
Chocolate Chip Sugar Cookies
Surprise Package Cookies
Summertime Fun Cookies
Fortune Cookies
Wookie Cookies
Gumdrop Cookies
Peppermint Kiss Cookies
Kitchen Sink Cookies
Quick Ghost Cookies
Fancy Butter Cookies
Chocolate Chip Molasses Cookies
Fortune Cookies
Elf Cookies
Molasses Cookies
Peppermint Sugar Cookies
Sarah Tramonte for taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesCookiesDrop Cookies
Magic Cookies
Sarah Tramonte for taste of Home
3.7 | 3 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 10 min. Bake: 15 min. + cooling
By
Lauren Habermehl
Recipe by Lauren Habermehl, Pewaukee, Wisconsin
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Aug. 25, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Magic cookies transform the famous seven-layer bars into individual cookies chock-full of coconut, chocolate chips, butterscotch, cashews and more.
At this point, magic cookie bars (also known as “seven-layer bars” or “Hello Dolly bars”) should be declared obligatory for any event where a dessert table is involved. They’re a guaranteed to please as a potluck dessert—equal parts sweet, chewy, chocolaty and satisfying. So with a dessert recipe this good, why would you ever do anything to mess with perfection? Because, believe it or not, the recipe can be made even better. At least that’s the case when you’re transforming this vintage dessert recipe into magic cookies.
This recipe contains all the same delightful ingredients as classic magic cookie bars, only instead of spreading the mixture into a 13-by-9 pan over a graham cracker crust, the dough is scooped into mounds and baked on a sheet pan like a batch of your favorite coconut macaroons. The result is a divine cookie recipe with all the decadent chew of the original, plus crisp, caramelized edges that take these magical treats to new levels of yum. Bring a tray to your next gathering—we guarantee you won’t return home with leftovers.
Ingredients for Magic Cookies
Shredded coconut: Just like the bars, the base for magic cookies is predominantly sweetened shredded coconut. You can choose coarsely or finely shredded coconut, as both will work great for this coconut dessert. Just avoid using flaked coconut as it will not bind properly with the other ingredients.
Graham cracker crumbs: Graham crackers lend flavor and act as a binding ingredient, holding the chunky dough together once mixed with the sweetened condensed milk.
Rolled oats: Oats are not traditional in magic bars, but old-fashioned oats help give these cookies extra body so they can be shaped into cookies without falling completely flat in the oven.
Chocolate chips: You can’t have magic cookies without a generous amount of melty chocolate chips. For the best taste, make sure to source a bag of your favorite chocolate chips.
Butterscotch chips: We love recipes with butterscotch. The sweet, buttery, caramel-like flavor contrasts with the saltiness of the cashews and complements the coconut and chocolate.
Cashews: Magic cookies have plenty of chewiness thanks to the coconut and oats, but a few handfuls of nuts lend a wonderful crunch and saltiness to contrast their sweetness.
Sweetened condensed milk: This ingredient is essential for magic cookies and magic bars alike. The sweetened condensed milk acts as a sticky, sweet glue to help the cookies hold together when shaped into mounds. If you don’t have a can at home, try making a sweetened condensed milk substitute with milk and sugar.
Directions
Step 1: Mix the ingredients
Sarah Tramonte for taste of Home
Preheat the oven to 350°F and line two 15x10x1-inch baking sheets with parchment paper. Set them aside.
In a large bowl, add the sweetened shredded coconut, chocolate chips, butterscotch chips, chopped cashews, graham crackers crumbs and sweetened condensed milk, and mix until they’re thoroughly combined.
Step 2: Scoop the dough
Sarah Tramonte for taste of Home
Scoop the dough into heaping mounds (of about two tablespoons each) and space them two inches apart on the prepared baking sheets.
Step 3: Bake the cookies
Bake the cookies for 14 to 16 minutes until the edges are lightly golden. Remove and let them cool on the pans until fully set, about 10 minutes. Transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely.
Editor’s Tip: For a more attractive appearance, you can scoot the cookies into perfect circles using a four-inch round cookie cutter while they are fresh and hot from the oven.
Sarah Tramonte for taste of Home
Magic Cookies Variations
Go nut-free: If you prefer your magic cookies to be nut-free, you can omit the nuts from the recipe. Alternatively, you can substitute walnuts or pecans for the cashews.
Make magic with peanut butter: If you love peanut butter desserts, you can add up to 2 tablespoons of peanut butter to the dough during the mixing stage. If your dough is a bit too loose, add 1/4 cup of additional graham cracker crumbs to help bring things together.
Add more baking chips: Magic bars often swap different flavored baking chips for a custom flavor. Opt for dark, white, milk, peanut butter, mint or caramel chips instead. So long as you keep the total amount of chips to 2-1/2 cups, these magic cookies will turn out perfectly.
Try another type of crumb: If you don’t have graham cracker crumbs, use an equal amount of vanilla or chocolate wafers, Oreos or even gingersnaps. Pulse them a few times in a food processor and you’re good to go.
How to Store Magic Cookies
Once the magic cookies are cooled to room temperature, store them in an airtight container.
How long do magic cookies last?
Magic cookies will last for up to five days.
Can you freeze magic cookies?
Yes! If you want a secret stash of freezer cookies to enjoy later, store them in an airtight freezer-safe container for up to two months. To prevent the cookies from sticking together, separate layers of cookies with pieces of parchment paper. Thaw them for an hour or two at room temperature before enjoying them.
Magic Cookies Tips
Sarah Tramonte for taste of Home
What if the cookie dough is too sticky?
If the magic cookie dough is too sticky or too thin to be scooped into mounds, you can add additional oats or graham cracker crumbs to the mixture until you achieve the desired consistency.
What if the cookie dough is too dry?
If the dough is too crumbly and isn’t holding together on the tray, add more sweetened condensed milk. If you don’t have an extra can available to use, add a bit of honey or maple syrup to the mixture, one tablespoon at a time, until the dough clumps together when scooped.
Are magic cookies gluten-free?
No, magic cookies aren’t gluten-free due to the inclusion of graham cracker crumbs. If you’d like to make gluten-free magic cookies, choose gluten-free graham crackers. You may also wish to use gluten-free rolled oats to ensure they were processed in a facility free from wheat and gluten-containing products.
Can you make vegan magic cookies?
While we have not tested these cookies with vegan alternatives, readers have reported success using sweetened condensed coconut milk to make traditional magic bars vegan. If you’re up for an experiment, you can try substituting sweetened condensed coconut milk for the sweetened condensed milk in the magic cookies. Source vegan chocolate chips, butterscotch chips and graham crackers, too, if you want a completely vegan cookie recipe.
Test Kitchen Approved
Magic Cookies
3.7 | 3 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:12 cookies
Prep:10 min
Cook:15 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2 cups sweetened shredded coconut
1-1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup butterscotch chips
1 cup unsalted cashews, roughly chopped
1 cup old-fashioned oats
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
1 can (14 ounces) sweetened condensed milk
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°F. Line two 15x10x1-in. baking sheets with parchment paper; set aside.
In a large bowl, mix all ingredients until thoroughly combined. Scoop dough into heaping 2 tablespoonfuls; line 2 in. apart on prepared baking sheet.
Bake 14-16 minutes until edges are lightly golden. Let cool until fully set, about 10 minutes. Remove to a wire rack to cool completely.
Nutrition Facts
1 cookie: 555 calories, 28g fat (17g saturated fat), 15mg cholesterol, 153mg sodium, 72g carbohydrate (57g sugars, 3g fiber), 9g protein.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box