Teen suspected of Vegas casino cyberattacks released to parents
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityTeen suspected of Vegas casino cyberattacks released to parents
Teen suspected of Vegas casino cyberattacks released to parents
By Bill Toulas
September 25, 2025
08:51 AM
3
A 17-year-old hacker who surrendered to face charges over cyberattacks targeting Vegas casinos in 2023 has been released into the custody of his parents, a family court judge ruled.
The teenage boy, who is suspected to be part of the Scattered Spier threat group, has been imposed some restrictions that include limited use of the internet, phone, and electronics.
Although the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department did not name the casinos targeted, it noted that the attacks occurred between August and October 2023 and described them as "sophisticated network intrusions" attributed to Scattered Spider.
During that period, Scattered Spider compromised the network of MGM Resorts and Caesars Entertainment casinos. and deployed the BlackCat/ALPHV ransomware.
The incidents caused significant operational disruptions and compromised sensitive data belonging to staff and customers. They cost MGM more than $100 million in damages, while Caesars paid a $15 million ransom.
The prosecutors believe the suspect is still holding an estimated $1.8 million worth of Bitcoin cryptocurrency but it hasn't been found yet. They argued that the suspect should remain detained until the hearing in November, on grounds of his operational sophistication and massive financial gain.
The hacker’s lawyers characterized the detention request as “disingenuous,” highlighting the teen’s clean criminal recor and requesting a supervised release.
Family Court Judge Dee Smart Butler sided with the defense and ordered the release subject to the following restrictions:
Live with parents on a registered address
Cannot leave Clark County, Nevada
Internet access strictly limited to educational purposes
Restriction on the use of phones and electronics
Any violation of the above will result in the immediate detention by probation officers.
The charges the hacker currently faces concern obtaining personally identifiable information for harm or impersonation, extortion, conspiracy to commit extortion, and unlawful computer acts.
The prosecutors are seeking additional charges and also request that the hacker be tried as an adult, which incurs harsher, long-term imprisonment sentences.
Last year, another teenage boy, a 17-year old, was arrested in connection with Scattered Spider cyberattacks. He was released on bail pending investigation.
The boy was suspected of being involved in the MGM Resorts ransomware attack and part of the Scattered Spider hacking collective.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attackU.S. seizes $2.8 million in crypto from Zeppelin ransomware operatorUS govt seizes $1 million in crypto from BlackSuit ransomware gangScattered Spider is running a VMware ESXi hacking spreeUK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptions
Caesars Entertainment
Casino
Court Case
Legal
MGM Resorts
Ransomware
Scattered Spider
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
Wh1t3Ryn0
-
15 hours ago
See here is the problem, this kid (not a kid at 17 he knows right and wrong) that is just getting a slap on a wrist for causing millions of dollars of damage. Also the fact he is still hiding money and they released him is a pathetic move by the judge. This person needs to be locked up for atleast 10 years for the cyber crime he has commited
ken_smon
-
14 hours ago
Dude.
He surrendered.
He did not plead guilty.
He has not been convicted.
And you are ready to throw him in jail for 10+ years?
powerspork
-
12 hours ago
10 years is extreme if you look at some of the other sentences handed out here. The only reason a kid (yes, don't you remember being a stupid 17 year old?) should get hard time for this is to change his view on the viability of criminal life. The point is to change his life trajectory, not entrench it, which is what 10 years will do.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
CISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploit
Sponsor Posts
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT