Grocery Delivery from Amazon - Amazon.com
Grocery Delivery from Amazon - Amazon.com
Skip to
Main content
Keyboard shortcuts
Search
alt
+
/
Cart
shift
+
alt
+
C
Home
shift
+
alt
+
H
Orders
shift
+
alt
+
O
Show/Hide shortcuts
shift
+
alt
+
Z
To move between items, use your keyboard's up or down arrows.
.us
Delivering to Chicago 60602
Update location
All
Select the department you want to search in
All Departments
Alexa Skills
Amazon Autos
Amazon Devices
Amazon Fresh
Amazon Global Store
Amazon Haul
Amazon One Medical
Amazon Pharmacy
Amazon Resale
Appliances
Apps & Games
Arts, Crafts & Sewing
Audible Books & Originals
Automotive Parts & Accessories
Baby
Beauty & Personal Care
Books
CDs & Vinyl
Cell Phones & Accessories
Clothing, Shoes & Jewelry
Women's Clothing, Shoes & Jewelry
Men's Clothing, Shoes & Jewelry
Girl's Clothing, Shoes & Jewelry
Boy's Clothing, Shoes & Jewelry
Baby Clothing, Shoes & Jewelry
Collectibles & Fine Art
Computers
Credit and Payment Cards
Digital Music
Electronics
Garden & Outdoor
Gift Cards
Grocery & Gourmet Food
Handmade
Health, Household & Baby Care
Home & Business Services
Home & Kitchen
Industrial & Scientific
Just for Prime
Kindle Store
Luggage & Travel Gear
Luxury Stores
Magazine Subscriptions
Movies & TV
Musical Instruments
Office Products
Pet Supplies
Premium Beauty
Prime Video
Same-Day Store
Smart Home
Software
Sports & Outdoors
Subscribe & Save
Subscription Boxes
Tools & Home Improvement
Toys & Games
Under $10
Video Games
Whole Foods Market
Search Amazon
EN
Hello, sign in
Account & Lists
Returns
& Orders
0
Cart
All
Amazon Haul
Early Prime Deals
Medical Care
Luxury Stores
Best Sellers
Amazon Basics
New Releases
Groceries
Prime
Registry
Customer Service
Gift Cards
Smart Home
Sports & Outdoors
Music
Pharmacy
Shop By Interest
Amazon Home
Fashion
Sell
Beauty & Personal Care
Toys & Games
Automotive
Home Improvement
Computers
Prime Big Deal Days is October 7-8
Save on Groceries and Everyday Essentials Make Amazon your single destination for grocery and everyday essentials. Shop how you like,
online or in-store. Free shipping on all Everyday Essentials orders for Prime members.Shop Everyday Essentials ›
Shop groceriesAmazon FreshShop quality produce, select national brands and Amazon favorites.Shop nowWhole Foods MarketThe leader in food standards since 1980. Shop local, natural, and organic items.Shop nowSame-Day StoreShop items from your local storeShop nowWhole Foods Market CateringShop items from your local storeShop nowGrubhubFree Grubhub+ for Prime members. Terms apply.Shop now
Shopping outside of 60602?Change locationPlease enter a valid zip code
Save Money
Explore new coupons and deals every week online and in-store · Amazon.com coupons· Amazon Fresh in-store weekly savings· Whole Foods Market deals Prime Members save more at Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market physical stores · Dollar-Off Coupons at Amazon Fresh. Look out for periodic, exclusive offers to save more on groceries· Save an extra 10% off storewide sales at Whole Foods Market (excludes alcohol and catering) Subscribe & Save With Subscribe & Save, you can save up to 15% more on the things you buy most, by setting up automatic reorders at a frequency that works for you. Available on a wide range of everyday essential products on Amazon.com. Earn 5% back on Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, and Whole Foods Market purchases Prime Visa cardmembers with an eligible Prime membership earn 5% back on all Amazon purchases, including groceries and everyday essentials from Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, and Whole Foods Market. Save Time
Essentials you need, delivered today Shop products across multiple grocery categories on Amazon.com and get delivery as fast as 5 hours with Amazon Same-Day Delivery.Prime Members get ultrafast 2-hour grocery delivery from Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market, and other local/specialty stores on Amazon.Available in select regions Skip the checkout line at the store Skip the checkout line with the Amazon Dash Cart or Self Checkout.Availability varies across Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market stores Alexa Shopping List & Order Ahead Make an Alexa Shopping List and request Order Ahead* items from the deli, meat, and seafood counters as well as whole pizzas via the Amazon app.*Available only at Amazon Fresh stores
Frequently Asked Questions – Online Delivery & Pickup Can I get a single delivery from Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market, and Amazon.com?No. If you have access to multiple stores in your area, your order from Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market, and Amazon.com are fulfilled from each store individually so we can deliver them ultrafast. If you've selected items from more than one store, you'll need to select a delivery or pickup window and check out separately for each cart. You'll receive separate order confirmations from each store.What is the process for Whole Foods Market and Amazon Fresh pickup?After you place an order online, you’ll receive a notification when your order is ready for pickup. Before arriving, check in through your confirmation email or Amazon app to let us know you’re on your way. When you arrive, follow the parking signs and we’ll bring out your order. Make sure to double-check your email instructions as some stores may require you to go inside the store to pick up.What happens if I want to change, cancel, or add items to my cart after I've placed my order on Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market?You may cancel your Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market order at any point up until your shopper begins picking your groceries.What is Subscribe & Save?Prime Members can set up regularly scheduled deliveries on thousands of everyday products and earn savings with Subscribe & Save, and unlock extra savings on eligible subscriptions when they receive five or more products in one auto-delivery to one address. Subscribe & Save is only for items purchased on Amazon.com, and is not available for Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market. Learn more about the Subscribe & Save program.What is Buy Again on Amazon.com?Buy Again is a feature on Amazon.com that allows customers to quickly reorder items they have previously purchased from the website. Customers can view their purchase history and select items to add to their cart for a faster checkout process. To get started, visit our Buy Again Page.Can I use my SNAP EBT card for grocery orders on Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, and Whole Foods Market?In most states, you’ll be able to use your SNAP EBT card to pay for SNAP EBT eligible food items on Amazon.com, Amazon Fresh, and Whole Foods Market without a Prime membership. To learn more, visit our SNAP EBT FAQ Page.What is Amazon grocery subscription?At $9.99 per month for Prime members, this subscription—which pays for itself after just one delivery order per month—offers unlimited grocery delivery on orders over $35 across Amazon Fresh, Whole Foods Market, and a variety of local grocery and specialty retailers on Amazon.com, and even more convenient delivery and pickup options. Customers with a registered EBT card can experience the same grocery subscription benefits without a Prime membership at just $4.99 per month. A free 30-day trial is available so customers can see how this grocery delivery subscription works for them. Click here to sign up.What is Repeat Items on Amazon Fresh?Repeat Items is a new feature that helps Amazon Fresh customers save even more time as they shop for their groceries. Customers in select Amazon Fresh locations now have the option to select the items they purchase most frequently as Repeat Items and have them automatically added to their shopping cart on a schedule that they set. Customers will be notified by either email, text or push notification when Repeat Items are added to their cart so they can quickly complete their order with additional items and checkout when they’re ready. To get started, visit our Repeat Items Page.What is a service fee?The service fee helps keep prices low in our online and physical grocery stores as we better cover grocery delivery costs and continue to enable offering a consistent, fast, and high-quality delivery experience.Can I get alcohol delivered from Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market?Yes, in some states we can deliver alcohol to your residence. If your order contains alcohol, you will be required to provide a valid government-issued identification at the time of delivery.Are tips required for Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market delivery?Tipping is completely optional. If you choose to leave a tip, the entire tip goes to your courier. Information about your tip, such as the amount and who has issued it, isn't shared.How long will my Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market orders stay at the proper temperature in the packaging?Our packaging is designed to keep your delivery at the proper temperature during transit. Please be sure to chill any perishables upon delivery.Can I get my Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market groceries delivered inside my garage?In-garage grocery delivery from Amazon Key is available for Prime Members in select areas. It's a secure, convenient way to receive Whole Foods Market and Amazon Fresh deliveries. It's contactless, too, because there’s no interaction between you and the delivery associate, or the delivery associate and the garage door. To learn more, visit our In-Garage Grocery Delivery Page.Why do my Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market grocery delivery orders sometimes have less packaging?As part of our commitment to build a more sustainable business, we’ve reduced the amount of packaging used in delivery orders, as outdoor temperatures allow, while ensuring groceries are provided safely and securely. Learn more about Whole Foods Market and Amazon Fresh's commitment to Sustainability.What is Past Purchases on Amazon Fresh and Whole Foods Market?Past Purchases allow customers to reorder all of their favorite items from their past online and in-store purchases. Simply click "Past Purchases" at the top of the Amazon Fresh Online or Whole Foods Market on Amazon experience to get started. Frequently Asked Questions – Physical Stores Where can I find my nearest Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market physical store?Visit here to find a Whole Foods Market store. Visit here to find an Amazon Fresh store.Do I have to be a Prime Member to shop at an Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market physical store?Anyone can shop at Amazon Fresh or Whole Foods Market physical stores. Customers can use our traditionally staffed checkouts and those customers who wish to use Just Walk Out shopping or Amazon Dash Cart will need to have an Amazon account with a linked credit or debit card.What is Amazon Dash Cart?The new Amazon Dash Cart is a smart shopping cart available at select Amazon Fresh stores that makes a quick grocery trip even quicker by allowing you to skip the checkout line. Sign in to the cart using a QR code on your Amazon app, place your bags in the cart, shop, and when you’re done, exit through the store’s Dash Cart lane. The cart uses a combination of computer vision algorithms and sensor fusion to identify items put into the cart. Learn more about Amazon Dash Cart.What is Order Ahead at Amazon Fresh stores?You can request Order Ahead items from the deli, meat, and seafood counters as well as whole pizzas via the Amazon app when you arrive in store or even on the way there. You can shop while your Order Ahead items are being prepared and then be notiﬁed when your items are ready for pickup at the service counter so you don’t need to wait in line.What is the Alexa experience in Amazon Fresh stores?Alexa makes shopping easier and helps you save time while grocery shopping in the stores. When you need help ﬁnding an item or have a quick grocery related question, such as food facts or wine and cheese pairings, simply ask Alexa at any of the blue Alexa kiosks located throughout the store.Can I pick up and return Amazon.com packages at an Amazon Fresh store or Whole Foods Market store?Yes. You can have your packages sent to an Amazon Fresh store or Whole Foods Market store for secure delivery. Returns are hassle free: You don’t need a box, label, or tape. Participating stores only. Not all items eligible to be returned at an Amazon Fresh store. Restrictions apply. See Amazon Fresh store returns or Whole Foods Market store returns for details.What if I can't find the answer to my question here and I still need support?If your question still isn't answered or you're having trouble with your account or order, please contact us at our Customer Service Page. If you are shopping in one of our stores and have a question, please see a Team Member in-store for additional help.
Back to top
Get to Know Us
Careers
Amazon Newsletter
About Amazon
Accessibility
Sustainability
Press Center
Investor Relations
Amazon Devices
Amazon Science
Make Money with Us
Sell on Amazon
Sell apps on Amazon
Supply to Amazon
Protect & Build Your Brand
Become an Affiliate
Become a Delivery Driver
Start a Package Delivery Business
Advertise Your Products
Self-Publish with Us
Become an Amazon Hub Partner
›See More Ways to Make Money
Amazon Payment Products
Amazon Visa
Amazon Store Card
Amazon Secured Card
Amazon Business Card
Shop with Points
Credit Card Marketplace
Reload Your Balance
Gift Cards
Amazon Currency Converter
Let Us Help You
Your Account
Your Orders
Shipping Rates & Policies
Amazon Prime
Returns & Replacements
Manage Your Content and Devices
Recalls and Product Safety Alerts
Registry & Gift List
Help
English
United States
Amazon MusicStream millionsof songs
Amazon AdsReach customerswherever theyspend their time
6pmScore dealson fashion brands
AbeBooksBooks, art& collectibles
ACX Audiobook PublishingMade Easy
Sell on AmazonStart a Selling Account
VeeqoShipping SoftwareInventory Management
Amazon BusinessEverything ForYour Business
Amazon FreshGroceries & MoreRight To Your Door
AmazonGlobalShip OrdersInternationally
Home ServicesExperienced ProsHappiness Guarantee
Amazon Web ServicesScalable CloudComputing Services
AudibleListen to Books & OriginalAudio Performances
Box Office MojoFind MovieBox Office Data
GoodreadsBook reviews& recommendations
IMDbMovies, TV& Celebrities
IMDbProGet Info EntertainmentProfessionals Need
Kindle Direct PublishingIndie Digital & Print PublishingMade Easy
Amazon PhotosUnlimited Photo StorageFree With Prime
Prime Video DirectVideo DistributionMade Easy
ShopbopDesignerFashion Brands
Amazon ResaleGreat Deals onQuality Used Products
Whole Foods MarketAmerica’s HealthiestGrocery Store
Woot!Deals and Shenanigans
ZapposShoes &Clothing
RingSmart HomeSecurity Systems
eero WiFiStream 4K Videoin Every Room
BlinkSmart Securityfor Every Home
Neighbors App
Real-Time Crime& Safety Alerts
Amazon Subscription BoxesTop subscription boxes – right to your door
PillPackPharmacy Simplified
Amazon RenewedLike-new productsyou can trust
Conditions of Use Privacy Notice Consumer Health Data Privacy Disclosure Your Ads Privacy Choices
© 1996-2025, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates