Leading the future of open science publishing - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy and practice.
A catalyst for better
Built on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, we see the world through a lens of possibility, but we are not interested in change for the sake of change. We believe in better. We exist to serve the research enterprise which means our priorities are based on the needs of scholars, librarians, funders, and institutional leaders, not shareholders. Our vision and mission is at the center of our new brand identity.
Find out more
Open science
PLOS is a mission-driven open science publisher covering all scientific disciplines with a focus on fundamental and applied research across life, health, sustainability, engineering, and technology. When you choose a PLOS journal you are putting integrity first and supporting an organization committed to research that is robust, reliable, and accessible to all. We offer processes to ensure the science is rigorous, practices to make sure research is shared and reused, policies that are equitable, and innovations in scholarly communications.
Open science publishing
Pave the way
When it comes to scientific rigor and editorial integrity, we will not compromise. The research outputs we publish promote multi-disciplinary discussions on complex problems and enable all stakeholders to learn from, reuse, and build upon scientific knowledge. We reimagine models and mechanisms for sharing to meet open science principles and use our journals to test and refine innovations at all stages of the research lifecycle.
Open science policy
Advocate for change
We actively engage in policy discussions with multi-stakeholder groups to drive open science adoption. Publishing expertise, pioneering innovations, and original research mean we are uniquely placed to contribute to discussions on the barriers to adoption and the opportunities for integration of open science principles in scholarly communication
Open science practice
Share and inspire
We work with diverse communities to promote adoption of open science practices across discipline, geography, and career stage. To create new pathways to open science, we actively engage with stakeholders throughout the scholarly community with knowledge sharing, co-creation, and partnership
Read more
>  About us>  Our journals>  Institutional sales>  Career opportunities>  Media engagement
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top