Zorin OS 18 opens its doors to those fleeing Microsoft as the Windows 10 end-of-life date looms
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Zorin OS 18 opens its doors to those fleeing Microsoft as the Windows 10 end-of-life date looms
Image Credit: Zorin Team
By
Simon Batt
Published 21 hours ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Windows 10 support ends Oct 14, 2025; Zorin OS 18 Beta targets users left behind by Windows 11 requirements.
Zorin OS 18 Beta offers OneDrive support and Windows-installer help to ease data and app transition.
Familiar Windows-like interface makes Zorin an easy, free route out of Microsoft's ecosystem—try the Core Beta.
As Microsoft prepares to stop providing feature updates for Windows 10 this coming October, users still running the operating system have a few options ahead of them. While you can upgrade to Windows 11 (either with a new PC or by forcing your old one) or extend your Windows 10 support for a year, there's always the option to abandon ship and try a new operating system altogether. That's what I did, as I've since moved on to Fedora KDE. However, Fedora isn't the only distro available by any means. In fact, several communities are banding together to advertise Linux as a suitable "get out of Microsoft's ecosystem free" card, especially as we get close to October. For example, the Zorin Team have released a new Zorin OS 18 Beta, and it's designed specifically to make ex-Windows users as comfortable as possible.
The Zorin OS 18 Beta aims to help Windows escapees fit into their new home
Image Credit: Zorin Team
Over on the Zorin Teams blog, the group announced the release of Zorin OS 18 Beta. Right from the start, the team makes it very clear that they'd love to welcome in people who are fleeing Windows 10's end-of-life date:
With Windows 10 reaching its end of life on 14 October 2025, an estimated 240 million computers1 that don’t meet Windows 11’s strict hardware requirements will be left behind. Many users are faced with the choice of either buying a new computer soon or switching to a supported, modern operating system.
Zorin OS is designed to be the perfect replacement for Windows, thanks to its ease of use and powerful features [...] The improvements in Zorin OS 18 make the transition from Windows easier than ever, offering a familiar and intuitive experience for Windows users while unlocking the full potential of your existing computer.
So, what does the Zorin OS 18 Beta do to help Microsoft escapees adapt to Linux? Well, for one, the OS is actually fully compatible with OneDrive. That way, if you want to jump off Windows but you don't want to leave all of your files behind, Zorin OS can help you access them. It also has a database of Windows installers, and if it detects you launching one, it'll give you advice on how to get it set up the Linux way, plus some pointers toward some alternatives you can check out. Honestly, it sounds ideal for people still trying to get used to the open-source scene. Other than that, the OS definitely has the look and feel of a Windows product. Take a peek at the screenshot above: if you had told me it was a Windows 10 skin, I would believe you. If you want to get started with the operating system, head over to the Zorin OS 18 Core Beta download page and give it a try.
Linux
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
6 Home Assistant integrations I wish I knew about day one
2 days ago
News flash: cable management isn't the nightmare it used to be
2 days ago
4 reasons I keep coming back to RustDesk for remote sessions
22 hours ago
Lenovo begins cancelling Legion Go 2 pre-orders because people just can't stop buying them
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
6 abandoned gadgets that proved useful to my Raspberry Pi
6 tools that turned my NAS into the ultimate backup system
4 times when an M.2 heatsink is more than just cosmetic
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.