Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, Wi-Fi enhancements
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityKali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, Wi-Fi enhancements
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, Wi-Fi enhancements
By Lawrence Abrams
September 24, 2025
02:30 PM
0
Kali Linux has released version 2025.3, the third version of 2025, featuring ten new tools, Nexmon support, and NetHunter improvements.
Kali Linux is a distribution created for cybersecurity professionals and ethical hackers to conduct red team exercises, penetration testing, security audits, and research against networks.
New tool added to Kali Linux 2025.3
As with every release, Kali Linux comes with new toys to play with.
With this release, we have ten new tools, which are listed below:
Caido - The client side of caido (the graphical/desktop aka the main interface) - a web security auditing toolkit
Caido-cli - The server section of caido - a web security auditing toolkit
Detect It Easy (DiE) - File type identification
Gemini CLI - An open-source AI agent that brings the power of Gemini directly into your terminal
krbrelayx - Kerberos relaying and unconstrained delegation abuse toolkit
ligolo-mp - Multiplayer pivoting solution
llm-tools-nmap - Enables LLMs to perform network discovery and security scanning tasks using the nmap
mcp-kali-server - MCP configuration to connect AI agent to Kali
patchleaks - Spots the security fix and provides detailed description so you can validate - or weaponize - it fast
vwifi-dkms - Setup "dummy" wifi networks, establishing connections, and disconnecting from them
Kali Nethunter and Nexmon updates
Nexmon is a firmware Patching Framework for Broadcom and Cypress Wi-Fi chips that allows you to enable Monitor Mode and Frame Injection.
The Kali Team previously announced support for the Nexmon framework in July, enabling Raspberry Pi users to enjoy enhanced Wi-Fi features for security engagements.
With this release, Nexmon is now included in Kali Linux, making it more accessible to Raspberry Pi and other devices.
"In Kali 2025.1, we changed how we package our Raspberry Pi kernel, as well as bump to a new major version," reads the Kali Linux 2025.3 announcement.
"Now Nexmon support is back as well as supporting Raspberry Pi 5! Other devices can also use Nexmon, its not limited to Raspberry Pis."
In addition to Nexmon, Kali Nethunter has received some updates, including support for running it on the Samsung S10.
Kali NetHunter Car Hacking, CARsenal, has also received new features, including a new UI update and numerous bug fixes.
The Team says they will be releasing some videos in the future on how to CARsenal and demonstrating the various features.
Other changes
This release also includes other changes and improvements, including:
The VPN IP panel plugin (Xfce) now allows you to specify the interface you are monitoring, to easily copy the IP address of your VPN connection to the clipboard.
Kali is dropping support for ARMel (Acorn RISC Machine, Little-Endian).
You can now install Kernel modules with Magisk. However, Kali warns it's still in an experimental state.
How to get Kali Linux 2025.3
To start using Kali Linux 2025.3, you can upgrade your existing installation, select a platform, or directly download ISO images for new installs and live distributions.
For those updating from a previous version, you can use the following commands to upgrade to the latest version.
echo "deb http://http.kali.org/kali kali-rolling main contrib non-free non-free-firmware" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y full-upgrade
cp -vrbi /etc/skel/. ~/
[ -f /var/run/reboot-required ] && sudo reboot -f
If you are running Kali on the Windows Subsystem for Linux, upgrade to WSL2 for a better experience, which includes the ability to use graphical apps.
You can check the WSL version used by Kali with the 'wsl -l -v' command in a Windows command prompt.
Once done upgrading, you can check if the upgrade was successful by using the following command:
grep VERSION /etc/os-release
You can view the complete changelog for Kali 2025.3 on Kali's website.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
How secure are passkeys, really? Here's what you need to knowObscura, an obscure new ransomware variantBoyd Gaming discloses data breach after suffering a cyberattack5 ways to streamline Identity Governance with this free toolTrain for cybersecurity certs with this $53 e-learning course pack deal
Cybersecurity
Ethical Hacking
Kali Linux
Linux
Pentesting
Wi-Fi
Lawrence Abrams
Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT