The Stanley Cross Bottle Is Here—And In the Viral Midnight Glitz Hue!
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
The Wicked Stanley Tumblers Are Coming—And They're Going to Be Popular!
We Tried the Underrated Stanley Aerolight Coffee Tumbler—And It's Our New Favorite Stanley Cup
Restock Alert! Stanley ‘Midnight Glitz’ ProTour Tumblers Are Here—But Not for Long
9 Stanley Products Our Editors Tested—And Can't Get Enough Of
Stanley Is Dropping a New ‘Scarlet Tinsel’ Tumbler for Cyber Monday
The Stanley Mesa Rose Collection Is Here—And We're Obsessed with the Rose Gold Cup
These Bottle Bright Tablets Will Make Your Drinkware Sparkle
The Stanley St. Patrick's Day Collection Is Here! And There's a Gorgeous Shamrock Green Quencher
The Starbucks Cups, Mugs and Tumblers We Can't Resist
The Stanley Oasis Collection Is Here—And It's Perfect for Spring Break
Now, You Can Personalize Your Favorite Stanley Tumbler!
Starbucks Just Revealed Its Next Pack of Color-Changing Cups, and People Are Obsessed
Starbucks Is Selling the CUTEST Iridescent Tumblers, and They Look Like Magic
19 Etsy Home Decor Finds Our Stylists Want Right Now
We're in Love with Le Creuset's Newest Color Launch—Shop the Elegant Matte Navy Collection
Taste of Home, Via Merchant
Home
News
New Products
The Stanley Cross Bottle Is Here—And We’re Obsessed With the Dazzling Midnight Glitz Hue
Taste of Home, Via Merchant
By
Mary Henn
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 18, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
We're calling it: The Stanley Cross Bottle is fall's best-kept accessory secret.
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
Last month, Stanley pulled a fast one and restocked the coveted Midnight Glitz ProTour tumblers without warning. If you snagged one before they sold out, lucky you. (I managed to buy one, and yes, they’re even more dazzling IRL.)
If you missed the restock and want a taste of the shimmering Midnight Glitz hue, it’s still up for grabs in one sleek style: the Stanley Cross Bottle. Here’s everything you need to know about the bottle that’s keeping the shimmer alive.
VIA MERCHANT
Stanley Midnight Glitz Cross Bottle
An on-the-go hydrator comes in one of our all-time favorite Stanley hues.
Shop at Stanley
What is the Stanley Cross Bottle?
The 23-ounce Stanley Cross Bottle is your go-anywhere, hydrate-anytime companion. With a tethered lid, leakproof design and comfy jacquard strap, it’s built for hands-free carry. Bonus: the silicone base softens every set-down, so there are no clunks and spills.
The Midnight Glitz shimmers as you move—sort of like a disco ball. It’s a deep, glossy black with rainbow glitter that catches the light, and it’s topped with a sheer purple lid and straw for a sophisticated cup with just the right amount of glitz.
If the Midnight Glitz colorway isn’t your style, the Cross Bottle also comes in 10 other hues like Rose Quartz, Mist and Cream.
Is it worth the hype?
We won’t lie, we’re kind of obsessed with how sleek the Cross Bottle looks. It’s easily one of the prettiest sling-style water bottles out there, and honestly, perfect for travel and outdoor adventures. (No more accidentally leaving your bottle behind in the terminal—this one stays strapped on.)
It’s got all the classic Stanley perks too: a removable straw and double-wall vacuum insulation to keep drinks cold for hours.
Yes, the price is a little higher than the Stanley Quencher tumbler, but reviewers say it’s worth it for a hands-free, ultra-portable bottle made for city exploring, trail walking and everything in between. Fans also rave about the Cross Bottle’s durable strap and say it provides just the right amount of hydration without weighing too heavily on the shoulder.
Where to Buy
VIA MERCHANT
Stanley Midnight Glitz Cross Bottle
A Stanley cup that offers hands-free carrying and a glittery design? Sign us up!
Shop at Stanley
You can buy the Midnight Glitz Cross Bottle now on the Stanley website for $75, but act fast! We suspect it will be hard to get as soon as people catch on to the hype.
Author
Mary Henn
Mary Henn, MA, MFA, is a shopping editor at Taste of Home. She’s also a national award-winning writer and journalist. Her expertise lies in food and drink trends, kitchen products, household appliances and outdoor grills.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box