Are portable wind generators a viable alternative to solar power? My verdict after testing one at home | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Energy
Power banks and batteries
Are portable wind generators a viable alternative to solar power? My verdict after testing one at home
Solar generators require ideal conditions, but portable wind solutions like the Shine Turbine can keep your devices powered - even when the sun isn't shining.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 3:48 a.m. PT
Shine Turbine Kit
ZDNET's key takeaways The Shine Turbine kit is on sale for $279, while the Essentials Kit is on sale for $342.The kit includes everything you need to turn wind into electrical energy, and the turbine features a 12,000 mAh battery.There are limitations, which include the weight of the kit and the 40W of power it taps out at. View now at Shineturbine Best generators deals of the week
Jackery Explorer 1000 v2 1070Wh Portable Power Station:  $469 (save $330)
DJI Power 1000 1024Wh Portable Power Station:  $499 (save $500)
EF Ecoflow Delta 2 1024Wh Portable Power Station:  $479 (save $220)
Bluetti AC70 768Wh Portable Power Station:  $399 (save $200)
EF Ecoflow Delta 3 1024Wh Portable Power Station:  $549 (save $150) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I cover a lot of solar generators here, and they are all the rage. I've tested dozens of devices over the past few years and seen the technology go from strength to strength.But I often get asked, "What happens when the clouds roll in and the sun vanishes?" Living in the UK, the sun can be in short supply for much of the year. Also: Unplugging these 7 household devices saved me $200 a year in electricityThis is when you turn your attention from solar to wind power. And there's one company that makes portable wind turbines perfect for charging your smartphones, tablets, and other portable devices: Shine Turbine.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Shine Turbine The Shine Turbine packs all the functionality of big turbines into something small enough to fit in your backpack.
details
View at Shineturbine The Shine Turbine kit comes with everything you need -- the turbine, a stand, guy lines, pegs, and cables. Setting up the first few times took a bit longer than I expected, especially if you're trying to do it while it's blowing a gale. But as with most things, it does get easier with practice. Also: 10 tiny tools I carry with me everywhere - how they workThere's also a knack to setting the guy lines out effectively, which took me a while to figure out -- a process that would have been a lot faster had I read the manual -- because I found the setup all shaky the first few times. But once you get it figured out, it's very robust.
Once set up, it's a robust bit of kit! Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETOnce set up, you have options. You can let the turbine charge up the internal battery and then use that to charge your devices, or you can attach a power bank to the turbine. Your choice depends on how you're using the setup. Using the entire turbine as a big power bank makes sense for odd top-ups on the move, but in a base camp setting, it's better to charge separate power banks and use those, keeping the reserve in the turbine for backup on still days. Also: Finally, a rugged Android phone that doesn't feel like a downgrade from my Pixel
Shine Turbine in action! Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETI've found the Shine Turbine to be quite effective, but there are limitations. First, the 40-watt output is a low amount of power if you're used to having 100- or 200-watt solar panels at your disposal. The Shine is ideal for smartphones, tablets, drones, and cameras, but laptops and other bigger devices are off the cards. Setup is also rather time-consuming. I'm used to being able to throw solar panels out for my power stations in seconds. The best I got the setup time for the Shine Turbine was about ten minutes. Also, taking the turbine down involves carefully packing the guy lines away so as not to make the next setup a painful one. But despite the downsides, the Shine Turbine is a great way to harvest power from Mother Nature when you are away from an AC outlet.
ZDNET's buying advice If you need power and can't rely on the sun, the Shine Turbine really shines. Yes, it's weighty, yes, setup takes some time, and yes, the power output from it is rather limited, but I've used a single turbine to keep my iPhone and a drone powered on a multi-day trip where a power station and solar panels weren't an option. Also: This USB-C accessory gave my Android and iPhone an ingenious emergency toolStarting at $399, the price is what it is -- if you want power on the move, it's a price worth paying because you're getting the best portable wind turbines on the market and a package that will accompany you on many adventures. Shine Turbine tech specsPower rating: 40 wattsInternal battery: 3.7 V, 12,000 mAhConnector: Regulated 5 V DC, 2.6 ACharge ports: USB Standard-A, USB Micro-BFolded length: 35 cm / 13 3/4 inFolded width: 10 cm / 4 inRotor diameter: 60 cm / 23 5/8 inMount height: 91.4 cm / 3 ftTotal weight: 3 lbs / 1.3 kgProtections: Over-voltage, under-voltage, under-temperature, over-temperature, overload and transientAlso: I tested this 130-pound power station off-grid - my buying advice after a weekThis article was originally published on Dec. 6, 2024, and was updated on September 18, 2025, with a thorough fact check and price update.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Unplugging these 7 household devices saved me $200 a year in electricity
How the most home-energy savvy slash their electric bills by 78%
These 7 smart plug hacks changed how I run my home - here's the setup
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use