I Tried Reusable Paper Towels for a Week. Here's My Verdict [2025]
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
How to Wash Microfiber Towels So They Stay Super Absorbent
The One Thing You're NOT Doing with Your Paper Towels (But Should Be)
How to Keep Your Towels Soft, Fluffy and Fresh
I Cleaned My Whole House with Grove Co. Plastic-Free Cleaning Products—Here's My Review
Are Pricey Paper Towels Worth the Money? We Tested the Most Popular Brands to Find Out.
11 Surprising Things You Can Do with a Kitchen Towel
The Secret to Reviving Your Dingy Dish Towels
The Best Laundry Detergent Sheets Are Good for Your Wallet—and the Planet
We Tried the Viral Damp Duster—And It Does So Much More Than Remove Dust
14 Eco-Friendly Cleaning Products for a Fresh Home
9 Clever Paper Towels Uses That Aren't Just Cleaning
10 Cleaning Tricks for Everyday Kitchen Messes (No Chemicals Needed!)
5 Ways to Upcycle Grandma's Vintage Napkins
Your Reusable Shopping Bags Are Actually Really, Really Dirty
11 Personalized Dish Towels That Make Great Gifts
20 Reusable Items That Will Save You Money (And Help the Environment!)
We Love Beeswax Wrap, a Natural Alternative to Plastic Wrap—Here's Why
I Paid $90 for a Kitchen Mat. Here's Why.
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Home
Stuff We Love
Expert Product Reviews & Buying Guides
I Tried Reusable Paper Towels That Are Better for the Environment—And My Budget
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
By
Emily Way
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 03, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Can a self-described "paper towel addict" make the switch to reusable paper towels once and for all?
Our editors and experts handpick every product we feature. We may earn a commission from your purchases.Learn more.
I’m always looking for ways to reduce, reuse and recycle. But if there’s one thing I never thought I could eliminate from my kitchen, it’s paper towels. Unfortunately, they make up at least 50% of my weekly trash output, and they’re always the most expensive item on my grocery bill.
That’s why when I learned about reusable paper towels—also called paperless towels—I had to give them a try. To see if it’s possible to eliminate paper towels completely, I put away my trusted throwaway cloths and tried these reusable paper towels from Grove Co. for a week. Here’s my experience.
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Reusable Paper Towels
These reusable paper towels are cute and offer an environmentally friendly alternative to traditional paper towels.
Shop on Grove Co.
What are reusable paper towels?
Reusable paper towels are made from various materials, with cotton being the most common. The reusable paper towels I tried from Grove Co. are made from 100% GOTS-certified organic cotton flannel, so they’re super soft and absorbent. They also use zero plastic packaging, making them an eco-friendly option through and through.
One thing I love about these unpaper towels is that they come on a thick, reusable “roll,” which is compatible with most paper towel holders. This feature is especially useful for folks who want to make the switch to paperless towels, but still crave that grab-and-go convenience. The best part is that they wash up easily with the rest of your laundry, making them ready for reuse in no time.
How We Tested Reusable Paper Towels
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
To test these earth-friendly cleaning cloths, I acquired two rolls of reusable paper towels in both the “Farmers Market” and “Wave” prints. My first thought upon seeing them was how much cuter they are than regular old white paper towels! The Wave print is a soothing blue and white print, while the Farmers Market print (my personal favorite) features fruits and veggies against a blue background. Both patterns disguise any lingering stains very well.
For this test, I decided to go all-in and put up my real paper towels for a full week. This gave me the most accurate picture of what switching over to reusable paper towels would look like.
Cleaning
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Obviously, the most important paperless towel test is how well they hold up to spills, and these didn’t disappoint. They readily soak up spills, work well for drying hands and offer an easy, scratch-free way to wipe down my espresso machine. The soft cotton doesn’t feel too flimsy, either—it’s just the right thickness for most messes. You can also double them up for super soupy spills.
While these paperless towels tout their ability to fit onto any paper towel roll, they unfortunately didn’t fit on mine. I have a Simplehuman holder that doubles as a surface cleaning sprayer, and the roll was slightly too small for it. While that was slightly disappointing, it didn’t diminish my overall experience.
Despite the roll snafu, I’m still happy with the versatility of the paperless towels, especially in the kitchen. They work well as napkins and dishcloths, too! Plus, the patterns are a good distraction from any stains. That said, I rinse mine off in the sink before tossing them in the laundry to minimize stains.
Washing
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
The best thing about these reusable paper towels is—unsurprisingly—that they’re reusable. To wash them, simply toss them in with a load of laundry and wash as you would with any other kitchen towel. You can even pop them into the dryer for a tumble dry! As a bonus, they didn’t shrink at all after sending them through the wash. They did wrinkle a little, but they straightened out when I put them back on the roll.
When they’re clean and ready to sop up more spills, simply wrap them around the roll one at a time by lining up the end of each towel with the end of the last towel you wrapped. They stick to themselves, so they stay nice and tight until they’re ready to use.
I recommend getting a waterproof bag for your used towels and a sticky hook to hang the bag under the sink. This helps keep the dirty towels out of the laundry pile and out of sight. If you don’t want to splurge on something fancy, repurposing a simple plastic grocery bag also does the trick.
Waste Reduction
Unless you plan on washing them every four or so days, I highly recommend you grab a couple of rolls. Each comes with 12 towels, which might be enough for some families, but definitely not for mine. I used two and a half rolls during my week away from paper towels, which was super eye-opening. How many paper towels end up in my garbage every week?!
If it wasn’t enough for me to notice the difference, my husband even commented on how little trash we accumulated during the week. Upgrading to unpaper towels really does make a significant difference for us self-described paper towel addicts!
While I was impressed with how they performed in the kitchen, there are a few things I just can’t bring myself to use them on. Bathroom cleanup is one thing. Another is pet messes. Because of this, I can’t see myself totally eliminating paper towels from my house. However, having unpaper towels in my cleaning rotation does significantly cut down on my paper towel use, which was my main goal.
Pros
Sustainable and eco-friendly
Cute patterns
Lint-free
Double as dishcloths and napkins
Machine washable
Roll back up for reuse
Cons
May not fit all paper towel rolls
Not suitable for pet messes
Final Verdict
Using reusable paper towels in place of regular paper towels was less difficult than I thought. In fact, I actually ended up preferring them to real paper towels when it comes to kitchen and coffee bar cleanup. They’re equally as absorbent as a typical two-ply sheet of paper towel. Plus, the pretty patterns disguise any lingering stains that remain after washing. Being able to toss them in the wash with my towels is the cherry on top.
Where to Order
EMILY WAY FOR TASTE OF HOME
Reusable Paper Towels
Swap regular paper towels with these reusable paper towels to save money (and the planet).
Shop on Grove Co.
Those looking to cut down on their paper towel usage can snag a roll of 12 reusable paper towels on Grove Co.’s website. They cost around $30, which is about $2.50 per paperless towel. Considering I spend around $16 on a pack of paper towels every couple of weeks, that’s a total bargain.
FAQ
How to wash reusable paper towels?
Washing cotton reusable paper towels is as simple as tossing them in with your laundry. You can also tumble dry them before rolling them back up!
How to roll reusable paper towels?
While it may seem complicated, re-rolling reusable paper towels is easy. To begin, wrap one towel around the roll, overlapping the ends. Then, line up your next towel with the end of the rolled towel and roll it towards you until the second towel is wrapped around the first. Repeat for each towel.
What are reusable paper towels made of?
The materials each resusable paper towel brand uses differs, but Grove’s reusable paper towels are made from 100% organic cotton flannel.
Why You Should Trust Us
As an expert shopper, I spend a lot of my time testing new gadgets and trending kitchen products. However, my most beloved products are those that help me reduce waste in my home. Some of my favorite tests include silicone bowl lids and produce keepers. In addition, the shopping editors at Taste of Home have tested tons of other reusable organizing and kitchen cleaning products, including silicone bags, Swedish dish cloths and shopping bags.
Author
Emily Way
As Taste of Home's shopping editor, Emily has covered everything from travel and food to DIY. She is passionate about locating the best products at prices that readers can afford. Her expertise lies in product testing and exploring viral products from Tiktok and Instagram.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box