These are the best Nintendo Switch 2 accessories I use when gaming on the go
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
These are the best Nintendo Switch 2 accessories I use when gaming on the go
By
Jakejames Lugo
Published Sep 4, 2025
Jakejames Lugo is a writer that has been covering video games and other entertainment for many years. He has written and published reviews, guides, listicles, and other content that anyone interested in gaming would follow. A lot of his work can be found in places like IGN, Dot Esports, Red Bull Gaming, The Outerhaven, Playboy Gaming, and many other outlets.
Jakejames continues to be part of the big conversations surrounding video games and entertainment. You can always find him sharing his undying passion for games online.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
With the release of the Nintendo Switch 2 in June 2025, many people are buying Nintendo's latest console. While bundles for the Switch 2 include games like Mario Kart World to keep everyone busy when they open the box, there are other items that new owners are going to want to have. Most home consoles have an array of accessories that make aspects of playing games a little better. This can include extra storage space, parts for controllers, and other hardware that make the experience better than what it was originally. And with the Nintendo Switch 2 being a portable device as much as a home system, Nintendo fans are going to need to accessorize. Some of the best accessories for my Switch 2 are ones that I use often. When I travel around, I want my gaming accessories to be convenient and easy to use, while also making my experience with my Nintendo Switch 2 even more comfortable and manageable. Nobody wants to get stuck with extra items that can make gaming on the go a hassle, especially when going somewhere outside your home. Here are some of the best Nintendo Switch 2 accessories I use when gaming on the go, and why you should consider getting them too.
Switch 2 Game Traveler Deluxe Case
Smartly protecting your console
The first thing that every Switch 2 owner should consider getting for themselves is a good case for storing their system. With the original Nintendo Switch, there were a number of companies that released their own versions of a carrying case to protect the Switch, as well as store games to take with it. But most were not designed well with practicality in mind, as well as convenience, with the bulk that some cases can have. Things like this can be a problem when traveling and storing the console in a bag or luggage. Luckily, the official Game Traveler Deluxe Case for the Switch 2 is a lot more mindful of its design for those who travel a lot, or just want some simple storage for their console. It's smaller than the official All-in-One carrying case, but so much more convenient to travel with. This case not only offers protection with its shell case, but also has a few extra features that can make playing a game with Switch 2 easier in tight scenarios. The case has a viewing stand that can fold out to set the screen on, which also doubles as storage for Switch 2 game cards on the inside of it. It even comes with a few plastic covers to store extra Micro SD cards that you want to bring with you. So if I feel like getting further with Donkey Kong Bananza while on a 2-hour flight, I can set the screen part of my console neatly on the case stand and play without much of an issue, even with the stand that the console has readily available. What I like most about this case is how slim it is to store in my bag, but also that it can be used with any model of the Nintendo Switch right now, including the Switch OLED and original Switch models. If you're looking for a cheap but efficient case to put your Switch 2 in after buying it, this is a solid option to go with at the start.
Joy-Con 2 Charging Grip
Playing and charging
The Nintendo Switch 2 comes with a Joy-Con 2 grip right out of the box. It's a convenient way to play games without holding onto the system itself, and can be more comfortable for some players. But a variation on the model of the grip is the Joy-Con 2 Charging Grip, which lets you charge the Joy-Cons while they're connected. The grip comes with a USB-C slot to plug in a cable at the top, which can be connected to a wall charger on an outlet while you're still playing a game. This is something I wish came standard with the grip that's included in the box of the Switch 2, rather than the plain one that everyone has now. In addition, the Joy-Con 2 Charging Grip also has two extra buttons on the back, which you can set to a custom input. So, if you're playing competitive games of Splatoon 3 and want quick access to a certain action, these back buttons can be helpful. As a whole, this version of the grip is a step above the original and is worth spending the extra money if you're going to be using a grip often. It may be smarter to charge the Joy-Cons before getting into a long session of gameplay, but sometimes you just want to keep going after you get the notification that the Joy-Cons are almost out of power. A quick plug of the USB cable will quickly solve that with this version.
Switch 2 Pro Controller
Better controls, better gameplay
Sometimes, you just need a better kind of controller to be comfortable playing your favorite games. Enter the Switch 2 Pro Controller, which has a more traditional controller design that is more in line with other controllers on other consoles. Not only is the Switch 2 Pro Controller bigger to hold in hand than the Joy-Con 2 controllers, but it also has the placement of buttons and spacing that match up to an Xbox Series X/S controller. Some Switch 2 owners prefer to have a controller built like this strictly because of comfort, especially those who feel that the Joy-Cons can be a little too small for their liking. Traveling with this controller is also convenient, since it's the same size as most other standard game controllers. If I have enough space in my bag to put it in, then I'm definitely going to bring it with my Switch 2 wherever I go. What also makes this accessory a premium option is the extra functionality that comes built in when comparing it to the Joy-Con 2 controllers. The Switch 2 Pro Controller has a headphone jack, back buttons that can be customized, and even amiibo functionality and motion control sensors built into the controller. All the same buttons that are exclusive to the Switch 2 Joy-Cons are included as well, such as the Game Chat button for getting into a party via Switch Online. The pricing of the Switch 2 Pro Controller might scare some people away, especially since you can purchase a brand-new game for the same price. But you really get what you pay for with this, and what you get is very good. If there's one thing for the Switch 2 that everyone should be willing to spend on over anything else, then this would be the accessory to save up for. It's the best option for controllers on the Nintendo Switch 2, whether you're gaming at home or traveling around with the console.
Accessorize with your Switch 2
Getting a brand-new video game console is always exciting. Not only are there new games to play, but new accessories to help enhance what you experience while playing. Some accessories are definitely ones that everyone should pick up when buying a new Nintendo Switch 2, because they are very useful. While others may not be mandatory, they still offer a big boost in comfort or a better overall experience while playing games on it. If you want a good idea of what accessories to pick up for your console, you'll do a lot of good by looking at these Nintendo Switch 2 accessories before anything else.
Gaming
Nintendo
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
NotebookLM’s huge update comes with a surprising downgrade
Sep 10, 2025
This Samsung 40-inch ultrawide monitor combines the best of both worlds and is now available at its lowest price yet
Sep 10, 2025
This open-source RGB software replaced all my bloated brand apps, and I couldn’t be happier
Sep 10, 2025
We may have gotten our first peek at the next Windows Start menu, and you may not like what you see
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
14 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I tried out the brand new KDE Linux distro, and it's already my favorite
Thanks to Home Assistant, my vacuum cleaner is now integrated with my smart home
NotebookLM’s new feature beats Quizlet at its own game
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.