6 tools that turned my NAS into the ultimate backup system
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
6 tools that turned my NAS into the ultimate backup system
By
Karandeep Singh
Published 12 hours ago
I am a Senior Author at XDA with a decade of experience covering consumer tech. I care more about the impact of technology on people’s everyday lives than the superfluous features companies keep adding each year, which is central to my reviews and product recommendations.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
The idea of setting up a NAS was simple — I wanted a central place to host all my data and safely back up my devices. I have used tons of tools to make that possible, but the thing is that the NAS also needs its own safety net. A NAS isn’t immune to failures; its drives can fail, folders can get corrupted, and accidental deletion remains a problem when you have many people accessing the NAS. After playing with a bunch of tools to make my NAS the ultimate backup system, here are six tools that stuck around.
6
Time Machine
A boon for Mac users
My primary work machine is a MacBook, making it a critical piece of hardware in my tech setup. That’s the reason I wanted the most reliable way of backing it up every week. While I did shop around, I ended up using the built-in Time Machine tool for securely backing up my laptop to the NAS. It was a nice relief that Time Machine natively supports network storage devices for backups. However, I wasn’t very fond of the built-in scheduling options, so I use a third-party tool to trigger a backup task every weekend. I have been using this setup for years, and I only need to check in on it every couple of months to ensure nothing is broken. That’s it.
5
Synology Active Backup
Or its equivalents from other brands
Unlike Mac, I haven’t had good luck with Windows’ native backup tool. The option to back up my Windows machine to my NAS was too convoluted. What came to my rescue was Synology’s own Active Backup tool. It is designed for businesses, allowing them to back up dozens of PCs in a single go, but who says I can’t use it for a single PC? It has worked for me far more reliably than even Time Machine. You just need to install the app on both your NAS and your PC, link the two up, pick how you want to back things up, and you’re set. If you don’t own a Synology, check your NAS brand’s first-party tools for a similar option.
4
Hyper Backup
To safeguard data on your NAS
While a NAS is the backup tool for your laptops and phones, your NAS also needs to back things up. It’s ideal that you have an off-site backup for your NAS to keep your data safe in case something happens to your primary NAS. For that, not everyone can afford to own or maintain a second NAS, so the next best option is cloud backup. Synology — and a lot of other brands — offer first-party tools that directly integrate with a lot of mainstream cloud services like Google Drive and OneDrive. It safely maintains an updated copy of your NAS on the cloud as an extra safety layer.
3
Rsync
When you don’t need the extras
Rsync is a scrappy little workhorse that is not flashy but gets the job done. It doesn’t look like much and requires a few lines of code in terminal to set up, but after that, it just works. I use it in situations where I don’t necessarily need a heavier, all-inclusive solution. Being a simple tool, it works quite reliably. The biggest perk is that it works across platforms — Linux boxes, Raspberry Pi projects, and even older hardware can speak rsync. And it’s quite efficient at that — it only copies what has changed since the last backup and not everything over and over.
2
Duplicati
Free up your backups
I use a lot of proprietary tools for backups, making it possible that I get locked into one ecosystem. Duplicati is an open-source alternative that helps me mitigate that risk quite effectively. It’s got a built-in encryption tool that encrypts your data before transferring it anywhere. And it plays nicely with just about any cloud service you name. The interface is friendlier than you’d expect from open-source software, and recovery options are quite straightforward. It may not be as polished as other commercial alternatives, but the flexibility it affords you is unmatched. It works as an additional protection for some of my folders that need to be backed up often to cloud services other tools don’t work with.
1
Synology Photos
It’s my media backup trump card
This is another time I found the best tool for photo backup bundled with my NAS itself. I stuck with Synology Photos for its great organizing tools, similar to Google Photos, and a handy smartphone app, which is essential for quickly accessing your photos anywhere. It has given me zero trouble in the years I have extensively used it. If you own a Synology NAS, this would be my default recommendation for all kinds of photo backup. It should be one of the first apps you start using. For everyone else, you have plenty of third-party tools available on the market, including several feature-rich ones like PhotoSync, PhotoPrism, and more.
Create your backup strategy
Not having a backup strategy shouldn’t be an option. While this setup works for me and my varied needs, you can try out multiple tools to create a solution that is unique to your setup. The ones I use are mostly free, but even if you find a tool worth paying for to keep your data safe, I’d suggest you take the bet. It’s that important to have a backup system in place.
Source: Amazon
TerraMaster F4-424 Max
9/10
CPU
Intel Core i5-1235U
Memory
8GB DDR5 non-ECC SODIMM (up to 64GB)
Drive Bays
4 HDD bays + 2 NVMe SSD slots
Ports
2x USB Type-A (10Gbps), 1x USB Type-C (10Gbps), 1x HDMI 2.0, 2x 10GbE RJ45
The TerraMaster F4-424 Max is a premium hybrid NAS enclosure that combines a solid Intel Core i5-1235U processor with ultra-fast 10GbE ports and ample storage capacity. It also supports up to 64GB RAM and is as amazing for home lab workloads as it is for storing your precious data,
$900 at Amazon
$900 at TerraMaster
Expand
Collapse
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
This free and open-source app helps me keep track of all the stuff I usually forget
2 days ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
3 days ago
I built a pocket NAS with a Raspberry Pi and an NVMe drive
3 days ago
This SmartDNS server lets you get around geoblocks
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
3 smart ways I use Obsidian to supercharge my productivity
Zorin OS 18 opens its doors to those fleeing Microsoft as the Windows 10 end-of-life date looms
I tried 5 writing apps for Linux but I keep coming back to this web-based one instead
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.