Get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026: 2 ways | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Windows
Get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026: 2 ways
Don't want to fork over $30 for a one-year subscription to Windows 10 Extended Security Updates? Microsoft is offering a couple of ways to avoid the fee. But there's a catch.
Written by
Ed Bott, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 19, 2025 at 9:27 a.m. PT
simpson33/iStock/Getty Images PlusFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysWindows 10 PCs have two free options for extended security updates.To qualify for free personal updates, enroll with a Microsoft account.The one-year extension for consumers ends in October 2026.The Windows 10 end-of-support date is nearly here. Over the summer, Microsoft seems to have belatedly realized that owners of tens of millions of consumer PCs running Windows 10 aren't ready to replace their old computers, and those customers are also not about to fork over $30 for a one-year Extended Security Updates (ESU) subscription.Also: How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for freeSo, at the end of June, just days before the end of its fiscal year, the company waved the white flag and announced new "free enrollment options" for the ESU program, along with a description of the steps customers will need to follow to sign up. Anyone willing to try out Microsoft's cloud-based Windows Backup or spend a few minutes per day with the Bing search engine over the course of a week can avoid the $30 tariff and get that subscription for free using the enrollment wizard shown here.
Microsoft is offering a year's worth of free security updates to owners of Windows 10 PCs.  Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETThe news was buried in yet another long-winded post on the Windows Blog, which praises Windows 11 and encourages customers to upgrade their old PCs, buy new ones, or migrate to cloud-based alternatives like Windows 365 -- anything but keep running Windows 10.Also: Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to actThe announcement that free ESU subscriptions will be available applies to tens of millions of consumer PCs that are ineligible for the free Windows 11 upgrade because they don't meet compatibility requirements. Enterprise customers are, alas, not eligible for those free options and will be required to pay a significantly higher price (starting at $61 per device per year, and then doubling each year after that) for up to three years of a commercial ESU subscription. Those business options are available through the Microsoft Volume Licensing Program or through Microsoft's Cloud Service Provider partners.ESU coverage for personal devices runs from Oct. 15, 2025, through Oct. 13, 2026. The ESU subscription is tied to a Microsoft account. After signing up, the account owner can apply that update eligibility to as many as 10 PCs when signed in using that account.
Who's eligible? The option to sign up for an ESU subscription from a personal Windows 10 PC is now broadly available to any PC running Windows 10, version 22H2, Home, Professional, Pro Education, and Workstation editions, with the latest update installed (August 2025 or later). Enterprise and Education editions are not eligible. The option will also be unavailable on any PC that is joined to an Active Directory domain, Entra ID-joined, or registered with Mobile Device Management software such as Windows Intune. (Earlier this year, Microsoft published a support document containing full instructions; it has since removed that document and incorporated its contents into a page aimed at convincing customers to buy a new PC. The original document is available in this archived page.) Also: Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anywayYou must be signed in with an administrator account. Because the ESU subscription is tied to a Microsoft account, you will also need to sign in to a Microsoft account as part of the enrollment process. In addition, Microsoft says, "The ESU program for personal use devices is available in select markets and it is not being expanded to additional regions at this time." I wasn't able to find a list of countries and regions that are eligible, but if you're outside the U.S. or other developed markets, you might be out of luck.
How to sign up I was able to test the enrollment process on a PC running the Release Preview edition of Windows 10 Pro. The sign-up link is available in Settings > Windows Update, as shown next:
On a personal device running the latest Windows 10 version, you'll find this link to sign up for Extended Security Updates. Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETClicking "Enroll now" opens the enrollment wizard. Because I was signed in with a Microsoft account and had previously used the Windows Backup program to save my settings to Microsoft's cloud, I was waved right through with the following message:
If you're signed in with a Microsoft account and you've already used the Windows Backup program, you'll be able to enroll for free, immediately. Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETIf you're signed in with a local account, or if you haven't previously run Windows Backup, you'll need to jump through a few extra hoops. You'll see this page in the enrollment wizard instead.
The free options require a commitment using a Microsoft account.  MicrosoftThe easiest of the free options is to use Windows Backup to sync your settings to the cloud. If you'd rather not do that, you can redeem 1,000 Microsoft Rewards points or pay $30 (outside the US, local pricing will vary).As I've previously noted, this option is available only for "personal use," a move that's obviously designed to discourage business customers from trying to get security updates at a discount. In small businesses that aren't part of a managed Microsoft environment, it would be impossible to enforce that restriction, so Microsoft has wisely decided to block personal ESU subscriptions only on commercial devices that are part of a managed enterprise network. What if you're not seeing the ESU offer? Check that you meet all the requirements, as noted above. If so, the best advice is to be patient. Microsoft says it's rolling out these changes gradually, so it might take a bit longer to get to you. There's no advantage to signing up before Oct. 15, and even waiting until the end of October will still allow you to receive the normal security updates on Patch Tuesday in November. A little determined searching will turn up instructions for making registry edits and running PowerShell commands that can force the enrollment offer to appear. In my testing, those shortcuts haven't been reliably successful and have mostly been a source of frustration. I'll update this post with any additional details once the end-of-support date arrives.
What's the catch with the free options? Using Windows Backup to "sync your settings to the cloud" sounds like a simple option, but that option might not work for you. As it currently exists, the Windows Backup option also copies personal data to the OneDrive cloud storage service. If you have a substantial amount of data and haven't paid for a Microsoft 365 Home or Personal subscription or a standalone storage upgrade, you'll burn through the 5GB of default storage and possibly wind up with a big mess. Also: Windows 11 upgrade failed? These are my 4 most powerful troubleshooting secretsRedeeming 1,000 Microsoft Rewards points is a simpler option. If you've already created a personal profile using your Microsoft account in Edge, you might have already amassed enough points to cover that cost (those points would be worth a little under $1 if redeemed for an Amazon gift card). If your Microsoft Rewards count is starting from zero, you can quickly cover the bill by downloading the Bing app for mobile and using it for two days (500 points), then doing a series of search-based quizzes, polls, and other silly tasks for a few days to accumulate 100-200 points per day on the Microsoft Rewards site. And if none of those options work for you ... well, that will be $30, please. Also: Consumer Reports calls Microsoft 'hypocritical' for stranding millions of Windows 10 PCsThese announcements represent a pretty big climb-down for Microsoft and a tacit acknowledgment that the population of Windows 10 PCs still in use in October is likely to be much larger than expected. The new ESU options won't change the end-of-support date for Windows 10, but they do offer a one-year reprieve for price-sensitive consumers and a chance for Microsoft to soften the inevitable PR hit it will take at the end of 2025.Editor's note: This article was originally published in June 2025 and has been updated several times to incorporate new developments. The most recent update was Sep. 19, 2025.More Microsoft
Microsoft at 50: Its incredible rise, 15 lost years, and stunning comeback - in 4 charts
Want free AI training from Microsoft? You can sign up for its AI Skills Fest now
Microsoft's passwordless future is here for Outlook, Xbox, 365, and more
Microsoft's new AI agents aim to help security pros combat the latest threats
The 11 Microsoft apps I ditch on every new Windows install - and the 11 I keep
Microsoft at 50: Its incredible rise, 15 lost years, and stunning comeback - in 4 charts
Want free AI training from Microsoft? You can sign up for its AI Skills Fest now
Microsoft's passwordless future is here for Outlook, Xbox, 365, and more
Microsoft's new AI agents aim to help security pros combat the latest threats
The 11 Microsoft apps I ditch on every new Windows install - and the 11 I keep
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use