Lesley Balla, Author at Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Lesley Balla
Seattle, Washington
School: Ohio University
Expertise: Cooking techniques; Baking; Beer, wine & cocktails; Food news; Grocery shopping; Restaurants; Travel
Follow:
Lesley Balla
More than 20 years in food, lifestyle and hospitality publishing, including writing for brands like Taste of Home, Resy, 10Best, Food Fanatics, The Seattle Times, The Hollywood Reporter, Los Angeles magazine, Modern Luxury's Angeleno and LA Weekly
Radio guest on KCRW’s “Good Food” with Evan Kleiman, covering various food, restaurant and drink topics, 2007-2019
Oversaw digital outlets for well-known brands, including the Los Angeles editions of Eater and Zagat
10 years in the restaurant industry working every shift possible, from cooking to serving and bartending
Experience
As an associate food editor for Taste of Home, Lesley writes and edits recipes, works closely with our freelance writers, and tracks cooking and food trends. After working in hospitality for a decade, Lesley has reported on the food industry for national, regional and local print and digital publications for over 20 years.
Throughout her career, she’s highlighted famous and unsung culinary heroes, featured up-and-coming wine and spirits destinations, and closely followed the food scenes and chefs in many cities. Her cooking style has been influenced by the places she's lived, including a long stint in Southern California, where she still visits as often as possible, if only for the citrus and avocados.
When not at her desk, you’ll find Lesley taking photos of everything, hitting farmers markets, baking something delicious at home, and road-tripping around the Pacific Northwest with her husband and their bottled-chaos pup, Pucci, shucking oysters and cracking crabs along the way.
Education
Ohio University, bachelor's in English
Mt. Hood Community College, Connoisseur of Oregon Wine certificate
University of Washington, coursework in Storytelling & Content Strategy
Taste of Home Editorial Policies
Taste of Home, a Trusted Media Brand, has been a reliable source for recipes, cooking tips and entertaining advice for more than 30 years. Every month, our content inspires well over 20 million home cooks to get creative in the kitchen. Each one of our 40 thousand recipes has gone through a rigorous testing and approval process to ensure we’re sharing the very best. Every snack, ingredient and product we recommend is tested by our team of culinary experts and professional product testers—the best of the best earn our Test Kitchen-Preferred seal of approval. Learn more about Taste of Home and our Test Kitchen and editorial teams.
Articles & Recipes
How to Shop at Costco for a Small Household Shopping at Costco doesn’t have to mean buying mega jars of mayonnaise. Here’s how to shop for a small household at the warehouse.
I Tried Matthew McConaughey’s Frozen Paloma—It’s As Cool As He Is Blend one up and float on down that lazy river.
Julia Child’s Technique for the Flakiest Pie Crust Julia Child relied on fraisage, a classic French technique, to get the flakiest pastry and pie dough. It doesn't require any special skill or equipment—just your hands!
More Articles
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box