Compute on AWS - Amazon Web Services
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
AWS Compute
Overview
Compute Solutions
Compute Services
Compute Partners
Products›
Compute
Compute for any workload
Instances, containers, and serverless computing
Why AWS Compute?
Millions of organizations run diverse workloads on the AWS compute platform. As the longest-running Gartner Magic Quadrant Leader for Cloud Infrastructure and Platform Services, AWS has been recognized for 12 consecutive years, and is helping organizations like Lyft, Netflix, Coca-Cola, and Moderna lower infrastructure costs and accelerate innovation on the world's most reliable, secure, and capable cloud.
Benefits of AWS Compute
Right compute for your workloads
AWS offers the broadest and deepest functionality for compute. Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) offers granular control for managing your infrastructure with the choice of processors, storage, and networking. AWS container services offer the best choice and flexibility of services to run your containers. AWS Lambda enables you to run code in response to events from more than 150 natively integrated AWS and software as a service (SaaS) sources.
From idea to market, faster
AWS provides multiple ways to build, deploy, and get to market quickly on the latest technology. The AWS Nitro System, exclusive to AWS, enables us to rapidly innovate, which means you’re always building on the latest technologies. Get started quickly with Amazon Lightsail, a virtual private server for a low, predictable price, and serverless computing with AWS Lambda.
Security, built in
AWS offers significantly more security, compliance, and governance services, and key features than the next largest cloud provider. With the AWS Nitro System, security is built in at the chip level to continuously monitor, protect, and verify the instance hardware and minimize potential attack surfaces. AWS also supports more security standards and certifications than any other cloud provider, including PCI-DSS, HIPAA/HITECH, FedRAMP, GDPR, FIPS 140-2, and NIST800-171.
Flexibility to optimize costs
With AWS compute you pay only for the instance or resource you need, for as long as you use it, without requiring long-term contracts or complex licensing. We offer automated recommendations to help you improve price performance as well as tools and innovative pricing models to further optimize costs. With EC2 Spot Instances you can save up to 90 percent over on-demand pricing for instances, or with Savings Plans you can save up to 72 percent across instances, containers, and serverless on a single bill.
Compute where you need it
AWS is the only cloud provider that distributes a consistent set of services from the cloud, to your data center, to the edge. AWS Outposts extends AWS infrastructure, services, APIs, and tools to any facility. Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) Anywhere and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) Anywhere let you run containers on premises using the same APIs and cluster management that you use in the cloud. AWS Wavelength enables you to run applications using AWS Infrastructure and services in AWS telco partners’ data centers to meet your low latency, data residency, and resiliency needs.
AWS Compute
750+
instances for virtually every business need
80%
of all containerized applications running in the cloud run on AWS
Guidebook: Containers and Kubernetes on AWS
84%
of all Kubernetes workloads in the cloud run on AWS
Guidebook: Containers and Kubernetes on AWS
108
Availability Zones that are multiple, physically separated, and isolated
Longest-running Magic Quadrant Leader for SCPS
Gartner has recognized AWS as a Magic Quadrant Leader for Strategic Cloud Platform Services for the 13th straight year. AWS placed highest in the Ability to Execute axis of measurement among the eight vendors named in the report.Read the Gartner Report
See why Gartner named AWS a SCPS Leader again
AWS Compute services
Category
Service description
AWS service
Instances (Virtual machines)
Easy-to-use service for deploying and scaling web applications and services
AWS Elastic Beanstalk - Run and manage web apps.
Instances (virtual machines)
Secure and resizable compute capacity (virtual servers) in the cloud
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) - Secure and resizable compute capacity in the cloud. Launch applications when needed without upfront commitments.
Instances (virtual machines)
Run fault-tolerant workloads for up to 90% off
Amazon EC2 Spot - Take advantage of unused EC2 capacity in the AWS cloud. Spot Instances are available at up to a 90% discount compared to On-Demand prices.
Instances (virtual machines)
Automatically add or remove compute capacity to meet changes in demand
Amazon EC2 Autoscaling - Maintain application availability and automatically add or remove EC2 instances according to conditions you define.
Instances (virtual machines)
Easy-to-use cloud platform that offers you everything you need to build an application or website
Amazon Lightsail - Virtual servers, storage, databases, and networking for a low, predictable price.
Instances (virtual machines)
Fully managed batch processing at any scale
AWS Batch - Run batch jobs at any scale.
Instances (virtual machines)
Managed service to run and scale High Performance Computing workloads
AWS Parallel Computing Service -Easily run HPC workloads at virtually any scale.
Containers
Highly secure, reliable, and scalable way to run containers
Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) - Run and manage Docker containers.
Containers
Run containers on customer-managed infrastructure
Amazon EKS Anywhere
Containers
Easily store, manage, and deploy container images
Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR)
Containers
Fully managed Kubernetes service
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) - Run managed Kubernetes on AWS
Containers
Create and operate Kubernetes clusters on your own infrastructure
Amazon EKS Anywhere
Containers
Serverless compute for containers
AWS Fargate - Run containers without managing servers or clusters.
Containers
Build and run containerized applications on a fully managed service
AWS App Runner - Production web applications at scale made easy for developers.
Serverless
Run code without thinking about servers. Pay only for the compute time you consume
AWS Lambda - Run code without provisioning or managing servers.
Edge and hybrid
Run AWS infrastructure and services on premises for a truly consistent hybrid experience
AWS Outposts - Fully managed service that extends AWS infrastructure, AWS services, APIs, and tools to virtually any datacenter, co-location space, or on-premises facility for a truly consistent hybrid experience.
Edge and hybrid
Collect and process data in rugged or disconnected edge environments
AWS Snow Family - The Snow Family, comprised of AWS Snowcone and AWS Snowball, offers a number of physical devices and capacity points with built-in computing capabilities.
Edge and hybrid
Deliver ultra-low latency application for 5G devices
AWS Wavelength - Build applications that deliver single-digit millisecond latencies to mobile devices and end-users
Edge and hybrid
Preferred service for all vSphere workloads to rapidly extend and migrate to the cloud
VMware Cloud on AWS - Build a hybrid cloud without custom hardware.
Edge and hybrid
Run latency sensitive applications closer to end-users
AWS Local Zones - Easily run latency-sensitive portions of applications local to end-users and resources in a specific geography, delivering single-digit millisecond latency.
Cost and capacity management
Flexible pricing model that provides savings of up to 72% on AWS compute usage
AWS Savings Plan - Flexible pricing model that provides savings of up to 72% on AWS compute usage
Cost and capacity management
Recommends optimal AWS compute resources for your workloads to reduce costs and improve performance
AWS Compute Optimizer - Identify optimal AWS compute resources.
Cost and capacity management
Build and maintain secure Linux or Windows Server images
EC2 Image Builder - Build and maintain secure images.
Cost and capacity management
Automatically distribute incoming application traffic across multiple targets
Elastic Load Balancing - Achieve fault tolerance for any application by ensuring scalability, performance, and security.
The AWS Nitro System
Regardless if you are migrating apps from on premises or building them natively in the cloud, you can benefit from Amazon EC2 instances built on the AWS Nitro System. The AWS Nitro System enables AWS to innovate faster, further reducing cost for our customers, and deliver added benefits like increased security and new instance types. AWS has completely re-imagined our virtualization infrastructure. Traditionally, hypervisors protect the physical hardware and BIOS, virtualize the CPU, storage, and networking, and provide a rich set of management capabilities. With the Nitro System, we are able to break apart those functions, offload them to dedicated hardware and software, and reduce our costs by delivering all of the resources of a server to customers.
The Nitro System is comprised of three main parts: The Nitro Cards are a family of cards that offloads and accelerates I/O for functions including Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (VPC), Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS), and Amazon EC2 instance storage, ultimately increasing overall system performance. The Nitro Security Chip enables the most secure cloud platform with a minimized attack surface as virtualization and security functions are offloaded to dedicated hardware and software. Additionally, a locked-down security model prohibits all administrative access, including those of Amazon employees, eliminating the possibility of human error and tampering. The Nitro Hypervisor is a lightweight hypervisor that manages memory and CPU allocation and delivers performance that is indistinguishable from bare metal.
Customers
Expedia
Expedia Group is all in on AWS, with plans to migrate 80 percent of its mission-critical apps from its on-premises data centers to the cloud in the next two to three years. By using AWS, Expedia Group has become more resilient. Expedia Group’s developers have been able to innovate faster while saving the company millions of dollars.
Read the customer story
Play
Lyft
Lyft uses AWS to move faster as a company and manage its exponential growth, leveraging AWS products to support more than 100 microservices that enhance every element of its customers’ experience.
Play
Moderna
"With AWS, our researchers have the ability to quickly design and execute research experiments and rapidly uncover new insights to get potentially life-saving treatments into production faster... AWS's breadth and depth of services are supporting our mission to create a new generation of medicines for patients and are instrumental in our quest to develop a vaccine for COVID-19 and other life-threatening diseases."
Stéphane BancelModerna, CEO
Robot
The AWS serverless architecture and the ease of use of the AWS services inside it free up developer time to produce business value.
Redfin
By using AWS, Redfin can innovate quickly and cost effectively with a small IT staff while managing billions of property records.
Play
Volkswagen
"Management was easy—it was very simple to upload a machine to the platform and simply adjust sizing according to need afterwards"
Sadao MatsudaSAP IT Manager, VWCO
Easy to migrate and build apps
AWS provides multiple ways to get you started quickly and easily. Amazon Lightsail offers a simple cloud platform at a low, predictable price. AWS Amplify is a set of tools and services to help front-end web and mobile developers build scalable full stack applications. The AWS Marketplace is a digital catalog with thousands of software listings from independent software vendors that make it easy to find, test, buy, and deploy software that runs on AWS. There are migration tools as well as AWS Managed Services, AWS Professional Services, AWS Training and Certification, and AWS Support to assist along the way. We have the largest and most vibrant partner community including system integrators, ISVs, and SaaS partners.
AWS Summit Hamburg 2025: Experience tomorrow's cloud today
Join industry pioneers and cloud experts for a day of hands-on learning and networking opportunities that will transform your business's cloud journey.
Register now
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.