Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Positions
job with School of Sustainable Energy and Resources at Nanjing University | 12840107
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Positions
Employer
School of Sustainable Energy and Resources at Nanjing University
Location
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China
Salary
Competitive salary
Closing date
2 Dec 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Applied Science,
Chemistry,
Computing,
Earth Science,
Engineering,
Environmental Science,
Physics
Job Type
Faculty Member,
Principal Investigator,
Professor
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
I. About the School
The School of Sustainable Energy and Resources (hereinafter referred to as SSER) of Nanjing University (hereinafter referred to as NJU) is one of the key schools founded on NJU’s Suzhou Campus. The school is established on the strong foundation of NJU’s national “Double First-class” disciplines including Physics, Geology, Chemistry, Materials Science and Engineering, and Mining Engineering. With the support of the National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and the Frontier Science Center for Critical Earth Materials Cycling, SSER is striving to fulfill the strategic needs of “carbon neutrality”, and to innovate and share theoretical foundations for a habitable Earth and sustainable development. SSER is dedicated to developing cutting-edge sciences and technologies in the cycling of energy and materials, and building management systems of energy and resources to meet the challenges in sustainable development. SSER endeavors to cooperate with global partners to provide solutions to sustainable development and to build a future where human and nature coexist harmoniously and sustainably.
II. Positions
SSER plans to recruit young scholars who aspire to have a career in the fields of energy and resources. The application is open to scholars from all over the world. There are vacancies for tenure-track assistant professors and tenure-track associate professors this year. Higher positions for particularly outstanding scholars are available and application will be considered individually. Specific fields of research open for recruitment are:
(1) Sustainable Exploitation & Utilization of Resources;
(2) Cycling and Extraction of Key Metal Elements;
(3) Recycling of Wind, Battery, and Photovoltaic Equipment;
(4) Energy Conversion and Storage;
(5) Energy-saving Materials and Technologies;
(6) Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage;
(7) Controlling Factor and Macroscale Model of Carbon Emission.
III. Qualifications
The applicant should
1. abide by the laws and regulations of the People’s Republic of China, and have a passion for teaching and research;
2. abide by the ethics of teachers, uphold academic integrity, be willing to work diligently, and have no criminal record or record in breaching the ethics of teachers and/or academic integrity;
3. have a first-rate background in academic training - specifically, a PhD in relevant disciplines, experience in studying and/or working at first-rate teaching and research institutions, and knowledge of the latest international trends and development in the relevant research field(s); In principle, the applicant for Assistant Professor should have engaged in academic research for more than two years after receiving the doctoral degree. The applicant for Associate Professor should have engaged in academic research for more than four years after receiving the doctoral degree.
4. have outstanding teaching abilities—the applicant should be able to teach core and frontline courses in the corresponding disciplines, and have sound teaching methodology and strong verbal skills;
5. demonstrate outstanding research output and potential - the applicant should have publications in his/her field of research, original ideas about relevant fields of research, a clear vision about future research plans, and good potential for further academic development.
6. be in good health.
IV. Application Procedure
Please send your resume including details on education, work experience, research areas, a list of research achievements, and any other supporting materials showcasing your accomplishments, to the email of Suzhou Campus Talent Recruitment: hr.njusz@nju.edu.cn, with a copy to deansser@nju.edu.cn. Please title your email as “Your Full Name +School of Sustainable Energy and Resources + Position Applied for + Research Field” for easy identification.
V. Compensation Package and Support
1. An annual salary (to be worked out individually);
2. A start-up fund for research;
3. Qualification to supervise graduate students;
4. The university provides short-term lodging and housing subsidies. Applicants recruited can purchase commercial housing offered by the university at a special discount;
5. The university provides assistance with children’s schooling at primary and secondary school levels.
VI. Policy Consultation
Tel.: 86-512-68768002 (Ms. Jiang)
Email: jym@nju.edu.cn
Official Website: https://sser.nju.edu.cn/
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Positions
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Shanghai, China
Faculty and Research Positions, Postdoctoral Recruitment
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
Academic Hiring Xiangtan University Faculty Openings
Xiangtan (Prefecture), Hunan (CN)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software