Enabot Ebo Air 2 Review: Functional Home Security Robot or $200 Pet Toy? - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Home Security
Enabot Ebo Air 2 Review: Functional Home Security Robot or $200 Pet Toy?
A floor-locked security robot is clearly limited for home monitoring, but the Ebo Air 2 boasts pet-friendly features that make it worth a look. Here's what my cat and I thought of Enabot's latest release.
Article updated on September 23, 2025 at 5:59 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
John Carlsen
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
John Carlsen
John Carlsen has more than a decade of experience testing and reviewing home tech products, with a major focus on smart home security. He earned his BS in journalism from Utah Valley University. In addition to his CNET contributions, John has written for Android Police, TWICE, Home Theater Review, SafeWise, ASecureLife and Top Ten Reviews. Expertise Smart Home | Home Security | Home Tech | Internet Security | Product Testing
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
Can a $200 roaming home security robot replace your indoor cameras? Probably not. John Carlsen/CNET
Table of Contents
Enabot Ebo Air 2 Review: Functional Home Security Robot or $200 Pet Toy?
Novelty features help the Ebo Air 2 play well
Ebo Air 2's security camera is good but limited by its location on the floor
Should you buy the Enabot Ebo Air 2?
Home robot offerings are becoming more abundant. But, with the notable exception of robot vacuums, few have "beep-booped" their way into the mainstream.As a smart home and home security expert, I chose the Enabot Ebo Air 2 to test whether the modestly priced device could transcend its robotic novelty and compete with traditional security cameras. Its emphasis on playful features might undermine its security potential or make it particularly appealing to pet owners. See at Home DepotSee at AmazonNovelty features help the Ebo Air 2 play well
The Enabot Ebo Air 2 is small enough to fit in your palm but packs a wealth of features for home monitoring and pet play. John Carlsen/CNETOn the front of the spherical robot is a camera with a 137-degree field of view and 2K video resolution, which is common among contemporary security cameras.Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.The eye lights make for a fun diversion
Changing the expressions or executing a command sometimes has the Ebo Air 2 reply by saying "Ebo!" It adds some charm and playfulness. John Carlsen/CNETThere are two simple LED displays on either side of the camera, which can display custom expressions -- I tried things like "CNET" or "John" with varying degrees of success. You'll also find a list of eye presets. Most presets feature different eye shapes, such as happiness and surprise, which add a nice dose of fun for people using this robot to play with pets and children. (Fair warning, I imagine a toddler throwing this camera like a ball.)Best Home Security Cameras for 2025
See at Cnet
Ebo Air 2 can display an expression when idle or turn off the eye light entirely. I like having the clock visible when idle -- although I had to get used to the last number flashing to indicate seconds. One final point on the display: It shows a helpful camera icon when recording video or using the app.My test drive was promising but there are limitations
Based on my testing, this little robot works best when the floor is a uniform surface. John Carlsen/CNETYou'll find two treads on the bottom of the Ebo Air 2 so it can move about the room. You can manually control it in the app but preset movement patterns like a figure-eight or zig-zag are no doubt intended for play with pets. Mobility was the first major hurdle in my home office, which has a large rug and many uneven surfaces. Hard floors provide the best control and stability, while high-pile carpet and the edges of rugs aren't as great. For example, driving the Ebo Air 2 around on high pile carpet leads to a somewhat unstable video image -- motion sickness is possible if you turn the movement speed up too high. The cause seems to be the unit's center of gravity, which is just barely too high for the weight to stay firmly on the treads on my high-pile rug.
Once you figure out the limitations and set a comfortable speed, driving is an enjoyable experience. John Carlsen/CNETUpon checking the online resources, I saw that the Ebo Air 2's maximum climbing angle is around 4 degrees, although you can somewhat overcome that with creative driving, like approaching a bump diagonally. It also can't cross obstacles over 6mm, as I discovered when I high-centered it on an extension cord.I intentionally drove it off my desk, and it handled the short drop without any issues -- at least it seems durable enough to take small tumbles. Still, I wouldn't intentionally make it go over a tall staircase or repeat the same drop onto an uncarpeted floor.Enabot Ebo Air 2 Plus turns up the dial on practically every featureShortly after the Ebo Air 2 launched, Enabot released the Ebo Air 2 Plus for $400, double that of the $200 base model. It upgrades every aspect of the Air 2. For example, the eyes are now full-color screens, it's more maneuverable, has a better camera and includes a full suite of AI features -- an assistant, tracking and advanced patrolling.I might test the Ebo Air 2 Plus down the road, but my impression is that existing fans of Ebo robots will enjoy the massive upgrades. Still, the regular Ebo Air 2 is a better fit for new customers and still has a laser pointer for playing with pets -- though I couldn't get my cat to notice it.Ebo Air 2's security camera is good but limited by its location on the floor
It's possible to use the Enabot Ebo Air 2 exclusively for security but it's better as a pet cam. John Carlsen/CNETWhen the camera isn't in motion, the video quality is suitable for a 2K camera -- I'd put it around Ring's level. Still, it's not as crisp as cameras I've used from Reolink, Eufy or Tapo. There weren't any noticeable issues with daytime or nighttime recording conditions. But the elephant in the room is whether a floor-mounted security camera can be effective.Ultimately, it's a toss-up because while the lens is good enough to record people at a distance, you'll miss out on facial features closer to the camera. Another potential issue is that even my recently decluttered home office presented obstacles for good visibility -- namely that furniture can block the view compared with a wall- or ceiling-mounted security camera.
I found the video quality more than adequate, even if the low angle is better for monitoring pets. John Carlsen/CNETThe low camera angle is exceptional if you have pets. If my cat were more keen to play with the Ebo Air 2, it could be a useful way to engage with him when I'm out of town. (Maybe he'll warm up to it?)Although you can record video manually in the app, the camera won't record automatically unless you set up a schedule, including for motion-triggered videos and the 3-minute patrol. Importantly, the camera won't run a schedule if you're currently using the app or if you put the camera to sleep.
While my cat's curiosity eventually turned to annoyance, it was nice to see things more closely from his perspective without lying on the floor. John Carlsen/CNETBeyond that, the app is handy for play sessions with plenty of presets for movement, sound effects and expressions -- you can also use two-way voice to talk to your pet. Likewise, I found the settings menus to be relatively easy to navigate. However, check the Product Encyclopedia on the app's Discovery tab to learn about each feature -- the printed manual is only helpful for setup.I love that it comes with a 32GB microSD card, which is plenty of storage for most people. It supports up to 256GB if you want to go on a recording spree. There's no cloud storage, so your videos are private and easy to back up on your computer.
Ebo Air 2 finds the dock eventually, but I wish the process were smoother. John Carlsen/CNETThe charging dock generally bothered me -- not the concept, but the execution. First, the manual recommends leaving a 1- to 1.5-meter radius around the dock to make it easier for the robot to return. This means finding over 6 feet of unblemished wall where the dock can sit -- not possible in my apartment with surprisingly few electrical outlets.I made it work by placing the dock in front of some closet doors for my temporary testing, but even then, the Ebo Air 2 seemed to do well until the last second before wandering away. My natural impatience meant it was far easier to pick up or manually dock Ebo using the app.Plan on using the dock's adhesive pad for best performance. This pad is likely better for solid flooring than carpets. Otherwise, the Ebo might accidentally push the dock around if it approaches from the wrong angle without the object avoidance kicking in.Should you buy the Enabot Ebo Air 2?
Pet owners might enjoy the playful features of the Ebo Air 2, because home security is definitely a secondary feature. John Carlsen/CNETIt's fair to categorize the Enabot Ebo Air 2 as more of a pet camera than a full-fledged security camera. By that standard, it's a fun way to interact with your pet -- if they have the temperament for it. There's no treat launcher and the laser pointer won't match up with other pet cameras, but the mobility opens your possibilities for play.Still, the video quality is good enough to work as a stand-in for a standard pan-tilt security camera in addition to pet camera duties. Anyone looking for a no-frills security camera can find a much better price than the $200 Ebo Air 2. I love the concept and look forward to seeing if camera robots (like the Ring's invite-only Always Home Cam drone) can find a place in the smart home.See it at AmazonSee at Home DepotTo learn more, visit our pages on the best smart home devices, security practices to keep your home safe and the cheap smart devices CNET editors are using.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.