Forum Rules and Posting Guidelines
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
FBI warns of UNC6040, UNC6395 hackers stealing Salesforce data
New VoidProxy phishing service targets Microsoft 365, Google accounts
Save 60% on a refurbished Apple’s 2021 MacBook Pro M1
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeForum Rules and Posting Guidelines
Forum Rules and Posting Guidelines
Bleeping Computer® is a community of individuals of all ages who are here to learn new information, to help each other, and to help their fellow peers.
With that in mind, we ask that all members please follow these simple rules in order to create an atmosphere where everyone feels comfortable.
The rules are as follows:
All information and instructions given within these forums is to be
used at your own risk. By following or using any of this information you
give up the right to hold BleepingComputer.com liable for any damages.
All the forums are categorized by topics.  Please post your questions
or messages in the appropriate forum.
Answers to many of the questions you may have can be found in the Tutorials
Section, Glossary, or from other posts on the message boards.  Please
use the search functions, at the top right of each page,
to find your answers.  If you are still having problems, feel free
to post your question.
All help must be provided in the forums or on our Discord Server. We do not allow support to be provided or requested via personal message, email, or remote desktop control programs (Logmein, TeamViewer, etc).
If a topic is posted in a forum that is not appropriate for the question,
the moderators has the right to move that topic to another better suited forum.
The posting of any copyrighted material on our web site is strictly prohibited.
Topics about politics and religion are prohibited. Topics that focus or devolve into politics and religion will be removed and repeat offendors will be banned.
Posting links in order to generate affiliate commissions is not permitted at BleepingComputer.com. Any posts that are deemed to be posted in order to generate affiliate commissions, regardless of the product being promoted, will be deleted. If a user continues to create affiliate SPAM posts, they will be banned.
Posting links to non-Bleeping Computer malware removal guides is NOT permitted with the exception of security vendors who sometimes release specialized tools and instructional documentation. This is because it is impractical for BleepingComputer to monitor and review all such guides for accuracy, no matter how accurate those guides may, in fact, be.
There will be no  use of profanity on our message boards.
This will not be tolerated and can lead to immediate suspension.
When posting, please use proper grammar. Refrain from 'text-message' style substitutions of words like 'u' for 'you', and 'ur' for 'your'. This is a multi-national forum, and some of our non-english speaking members must use translation software which is confused by abbreviations. Most of our volunteer members are very busy helping as many people as they can, and a post that is hard to read will often be overlooked.
There will be no racial, ethnic, gender based insults or any other personal
discriminations.  This will not be tolerated and can lead to immediate
suspension.
There will be no posts meant to offend or hurt any other member, in a
manner which is offensive or inflammatory. This includes flaming or instigating
arguments.
Spamming is not permitted; please keep all your posts as constructive as possible.
Pornography, warez, or any other illegal transactions may NOT be linked in any shape or form.
AI-generated posts are not allowed.
If you have questions regarding homework, we will only help you with general concepts. If you are looking for a complete solution or answer, we will most likely just delete your post.
No subject matter will be allowed whose purpose is to defeat existing copyright or security measures. If a user persists and/or the activity is obviously illegal the moderators reserve the right to remove such content and/or ban the user. This would also mean encouraging the use or continued use of pirated software is not permitted, and subject to the same consequences.
If you are receiving assistance in the Virus Removal forum, you are not allowed to request assistance for the same computer at another malware removal forum. This is to prevent conflicting advice from causing issues with your computer or making it unbootable.
This forum has the right to request alteration or deletion of any offensive
post. If this is not done in a prompt manner, the moderators will delete the
material themselves.
Posts may be deleted for any reasons the forum administrators deem reasonable.
Pictures may be posted as long as they are not explicit, offensive, or copyrighted.
Advertisements, of any sort, are not permitted. This includes member
names and links to commercial sites in Signatures, or in posts. You also
may not solicit sales for Newegg through the use of promotion or coupon
codes. If you would like to advertise on our site, contact us here.
In order to reduce spam on the site, you will not be able to add a signature to your account until you reach 25 posts. Signatures are limited to 5 lines or 2000 characters; whichever comes first. If your signature is larger than the allotted size given or deemed unacceptable, you will be requested to adjust your signature. Failure to comply will result in the removal of your signature.
Only one image per signature. Images in signatures must also be no larger
than 500 pixels wide X 90 pixels high. If you have more than one image you
will be requested to remove one. If this is not done in a timely manner
the moderators have the right to modify your signature to abide by these rules.
Any links in signatures or profiles cannot be commercial in nature or they will be removed by BleepingComputer. You may not put links in your signature soliciting donations unless you are in certain member groups.
Those member groups that are allowed will be expressly notified. If you have a personal website or off-site help resource, that is more than fine, but you can not sell products or services through your signature. Multiple links to the same site, unless for a very specific reason, are not permitted in a signature and will be removed.
Avatars must be in good taste.
This means no vulgar or violent images, pornography, or profanity.
Avatars that are found to be inappropriate will be removed at the discretion of the moderators.
Linking to hate, anti-Semitic, racist, pornography, warez, or other illegal
sites is not permitted.
Links in your signature must be unobtrusive and can not use formatting so
that attention is brought to them.
Member's display names can not be email addresses.
This rule is in place to protect you from spam bots who will pick up your email address and spam you.
Members may have only one account on this forum.
There is no need to have more than one.
Any impersonation of a user from these forums, in any mode of communication,
is strictly prohibited and will result in a banning.
Linked and locked topics are pruned regularly to reduce page clutter.
If you have a question about where your topic went, please PM a Moderator
or Administrator before starting a new topic asking where it went, or posting
a duplicate of the original topic. We will be happy to provide you with a
link to the new location, or a reason why it was locked and/or removed.
Violation of any of these rules can lead to a banning of the
user from our Web Site and a deletion of their account. The consequences will be determined by the moderators on a case by case basis.
When posting you agree that the administrators and the moderators of this forum have the right to modify, delete, edit or close any topic, signature, account, or profile data at any time that they see fit.
If you have any questions concerning this, please do not start a new thread, but rather private message to an administrator or moderator.
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact us.
Popular Stories
Samsung patches actively exploited zero-day reported by WhatsApp
New HybridPetya ransomware can bypass UEFI Secure Boot
Windows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 days
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now