Jimmy Kimmel show suspended over comments about the Charlie Kirk suspect : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Jimmy Kimmel show suspended over comments about the Charlie Kirk suspect The move follows an appearance by the FCC commissioner, who criticized Kimmel's recent monologue.
Media
Jimmy Kimmel show is pulled by ABC after comments about the Charlie Kirk killing
September 17, 202511:40 PM ET
By
NPR Staff
Jimmy Kimmel poses in the press room with the award for host for a game show for Who Wants to Be a Millionaire during night two of the Creative Arts Emmy Awards on Sunday, Sept. 7, 2025, at the Peacock Theater in Los Angeles.
Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Richard Shotwell/Invision/AP
Late night has lost another host after ABC announced Wednesday Jimmy Kimmel's suspension following comments he made earlier in the week regarding speculation swirling around the suspect in the killing of right-wing activist Charlie Kirk.
An ABC spokesperson told NPR Wednesday evening that "Jimmy Kimmel Live will be preempted indefinitely." Kimmel is the second late night host to be knocked off air. A few months ago, CBS announced it would not be bringing back The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.
CBS said the decision was purely a financial one. But it coincided with a lawsuit filed by President Trump involving CBS News, that was eventually settled, and the sale of CBS' parent company that needed approval from the Federal Communications Commission. The timing raised suspicions from media watchers.
Sponsor Message
Media
Trump again calls for FCC to revoke ABC and NBC licenses
Kimmel's removal comes after FCC Chairman Brendan Carr condemned Kimmel's recent monologue during an interview with YouTuber Benny Johnson. In that interview, Carr threatened to pull licenses from ABC affiliates who continued to broadcast Jimmy Kimmel Live!  Carr told Johnson, "It's really sort of past time that a lot of these licensed broadcasters themselves push back on Comcast and Disney to say, 'Listen, we are going to preempt, we aren't going to run Kimmel anymore until you straighten this out. Because we licensed broadcasters are running the possibility of fines or license revocations from the FCC if we continue to run content with a pattern of news distortion.'"  Nexstar Media Group, an operator of 32 ABC stations, later announced that its ABC-affiliated stations will stop airing Jimmy Kimmel Live! indefinitely, starting Wednesday night. Nexstar also is under scrutiny for its desired merger with TEGNA Inc. for $6.2 billion. It, too, needs FCC approval.
Nexstar's broadcasting president, Andrew Alford, said in a statement that Kimmel's comments do not reflect the values of the communities the company serves. He added that pulling the show is intended to promote "respectful, constructive dialogue" during a sensitive political moment. On Monday night,  Kimmel commented on the assassination of Charlie Kirk in his monologue, saying:
Sponsor Message
"We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them and doing everything they can to score political points from it," Kimmel said.
Television
This was the week that comedy pushed back
There has been no clear motive disclosed in Kirk's killing and investigators continue to dig into the background of the suspect charged in the case.
President Trump has been critical of both Colbert and Kimmel, calling them "untalented" among other things. Both have used stinging wit to comment on social and current events.
Trump posted on social media from Windsor Castle, where he is visiting the United Kingdom, calling the move by ABC as "Great News for America." In his post, Trump falsely said that Kimmel's show had been canceled.
Jimmy Kimmel
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor