PlayStation Plus October 2025: Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon lead the pack
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Alan Wake 2
Just in time for spooky season
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
By
Austin Manchester
Published 3 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Alan Wake 2
Related
Baby Steps’ nudity toggle unleashes a donkey dong bonanza
1 day ago
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
1 day ago
Cronos: The New Dawn's cats bring its protagonist to life
9 hours ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Behaviour Interactive
During Wednesday's State of Play, Sony Interactive Entertainment revealed October 2025's free Essential games for PlayStation Plus. Alan Wake 2, Cocoon, and Goat Simulator 3 will arrive on the service on Oct. 7 for all subscribers. The horror adventure Alan Wake 2 was a Game of the Year nominee in 2023. It followed up on the titular character's story from 2010's Alan Wake while introducing a new playable character, FBI Special Agent Saga Anderson. It's part of Remedy Entertainment's shared universe, something its DLC expansion explored in depth. Meanwhile, Annapurna's 2023 puzzler Cocoon remains one of the genre's most memorable games. Its puzzles treat various worlds like Matryoshka dolls, and we described it as "a complete game — one that sees through every permutation of its conceit." It's also one of our favorite games on Game Pass. Goat Simulator 3 is a comedic party game. It's wildly absurd, and has you playing as a mischevious goat drumming up chaos.
PlayStation Plus comes in three tiers. Essential is the entry level for Sony’s subscription game service, and it offers online multiplayer access, a monthly assortment of free PS4 and PS5 games, cloud storage, and discounts on PlayStation Store purchases. PlayStation Plus Essential costs $79.99 annually, $24.99 for a three-month subscription, or $9.99 monthly. Also announced was that The Last of Us Part 2 Remastered will join the game catalog for Extra and Premium members on Sept. 26, which is when Naughty Dog and Sony celebrate The Last of Us Day. The classics catalog for Premium members will also add Tekken 3, Soul Caliber 3, and Tomb Raider Anniversary some time later this year.
News
Gaming
PlayStation
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
It's official: Demon Slayer Infinity Castle beat Mugen train
1 day ago
Looks like Rockstar's getting ahead of GTA 6 role-playing
1 day ago
Marvel and DC just made Rocket Raccoon a Green Lantern and I need more
1 day ago
How a death metal singer helped bring Dead by Daylight’s Thai boogeyman to life
More from our brands
PS Plus Extra and Premium Games for September 2025 Are Available Now
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds Pre-Order Guide - Editions, Pre-Order Bonus, And Season Pass Details
The Best Multiplayer Games on Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
Best PS4 & PS5 Games Included In PS Plus Premium (March 2025)
PS Plus: A Comprehensive List Of Every Monthly Game It's Added
PS Plus is Losing 4 Games in October 2025
Epic Games Store: A Comprehensive List Of Every Free Game It's Had To Date
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
Hamish Linklater needs Midnight Mass showrunner to pick up the phone
See More
Trending Now
I played an hour of Pokémon Legends: Z-A and am smitten with its chaotic battles
Final Fantasy Tactics: The Ivalice Chronicles does justice to a cult classic
Marvel Zombies finally delivers on the potential of What If...?
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.