Why Apple's new iPhone Air looks so much like an Android (it's not all in your head) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Why Apple's new iPhone Air looks so much like an Android (it's not all in your head)
The iPhone Air is Apple's thinnest model yet, but is Tim Cook trying to tell us something about the future?
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 6:42 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET key takeaways The $999 iPhone Air is Apple's thinnest phone yet. It's ultimately for those who value form over features. Yes, it looks a lot like an Android, for one big (speculative) reason. Earlier this month, Apple launched its new smartphone lineup. The new iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Pro, and iPhone 17 Pro Max hit the market just in time for the upcoming fall season, securing their spots on dozens of Christmas lists. But Apple -- often criticized for its lack of significant changes to its phones each year -- unveiled an odd duck that perhaps only the most dedicated fans an experts suspected was on the way: the iPhone Air. It's the thinnest iPhone yet, at just 5.6mm thick and weighing 165 grams. Also: I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgradeHere's the thing: I'm not an iPhone guru, I'm a casual user, too, which makes me an ideal candidate to analyze the situation critically. You see, the bulk of iPhone consumers don't really understand the hardware and software differences from model to model. They buy the new model because their old phones need an upgrade, or they want to keep up with the Joneses.
Preorder the iPhone Air View now at AppleCase in point: Three years ago, I "needed" an iPhone 14 Pro because the camera was so much better than the iPhone 14. (Spoiler: I didn't need the Pro model.) But I bought it.And that's what Apple is really good at: Making the average consumer feel like every new upgrade is special and curated just for them. The iPhone Air does just that by generating fresh interest in the iPhone lineup. Let me be clear: I'm not dunking on Apple. For many reasons, this year's iPhone Air is a welcome surprise. For the first time in several years, Apple significantly altered the aesthetic design of a phone. Also: iPhone 17 preorders are open: Here's where you can find free phone dealsBut who is it for? That's where things start to get interesting. On the surface, it's for a no-fuss Apple user who values form over function. To achieve its positively Ozempic form factor, Apple had to make some trade-offs, and they're mostly with the camera. The iPhone Air has a single rear camera and a 48 Fusion lens (compared to the triple 48MP camera system on the iPhone 17 Pro), allowing for photos at 28mm and 35mm focal lengths, as well as high-quality macro photos. It also relies solely on eSIM for cellular connection, so you won't be able to insert your old SIM card in the Air model. The iPhone Air has less battery capacity than some iPhone 17 models, but it's still on par with previous models, like the iPhone 16 Pro. Apple even bridged the gap without being asked to by delivering a (still ridiculously priced) $99 MagSafe battery designed for the iPhone Air.Also: Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)It's a way to ditch a larger battery when most people use MagSafe batteries or power banks anyway. It's smart. The thinner design may be enough to entice customers to spend $200 more to purchase the Air over the base iPhone 17 model, and I may even be one of them.    With that said, I suppose Apple wants you to think that it was going for a curated blend of style and performance, but the iPhone Air is for Apple and Apple only. Why the iPhone Air really exists
The Google Pixel 10 smartphone. Look familiar? Kerry Wan/ZDNETFrom the very first leaks of its design, the Air drew comparisons to the Pixel, and we can't ignore the likeness. The iPhone Air could be the Pixel's cooler cousin (complete with a massive ego), and the only reason I can muster that Apple would go down this road is because Google has already delivered something Apple hasn't: foldable phones.
Google's latest Pixel lineup includes the Pixel 10 Pro Fold, while Samsung has the flashy Galaxy Z Fold 7 and Galaxy Z Flip 7. And it's neither brand's first rodeo with either flipping or folding. Also: iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winnerApple, however, has yet to enter the ring, and what's most apparent to me about the iPhone Air (and its likeness to a Google Pixel) is that it's a transitional model. Its thinner build, enhanced focus on aesthetics, and feature tradeoffs, suggest that Apple has something up its sleeve in the near future. Thinness, in itself, is a key design element for foldable phones, and the iPhone Air feels like Apple's precursor -- it's first toe-dip in the water. If a foldable were on the table, the preceding models would inch closer and closer in features and design until the dots finally connected. Apple would play the slow and steady development game by making Samsung and Google do the hard work, see where they get it wrong, and then hit the market with a better version of it.  Maybe that's precisely what Apple has been up to, and we're seeing the first fruits of that labor in the iPhone Air. After all, Google has been making foldable phones since 2023 and Samsung since 2019.
The iPhone Air in one of the new bumper cases that Apple is making. Jason Hiner/ZDNETPlus, the shift to eSIM only feels important to highlight. Of course, eSIMs can bring some added convenience, but generally, most manufacturers still incorporate SIM cards in phones. Using an eSIM creates more space within the phone unit itself, which seems to pair hand-in-hand with the drastic cuts Apple chose to make in respect to the iPhone Air's size. I wouldn't be the first ZDNET expert to ponder such thoughts, either. Last month, Prakhar Khanna evaluated the likelihood that we'd see a hypothetical iPhone Fold in 2025, and five of the rumors that point towards it, too. "... [The] Apple iPhone Fold will debut in a more mature market. I expect it to be more mature than first-generation Android foldables. However, this also means Apple will be entering a new segment that's more competitive than ever," Khanna says. Also: A foldable iPhone in 2025? Probably not, but these 5 rumors bring the hypeAnd Bloomberg's Mark Gurman has reported that the first Apple foldable, code-named "V68," will share similarities to Samsung's competitors, like the Galaxy Z Fold series. Alas, I have to mention that while the Air feels most like a first draft of a foldable phone, I have to wonder if there's a link between the refinements of the Air and potential smart glasses, which have long been rumored to be a priority for the brand. Also: I tried every iPhone 17 model, and my buying advice is different this yearSo while it's easy for Apple to sell the Air as the most innovative option for a customer right now, the iPhone Air isn't really for you, or me, or anyone, for that matter. It's a jumping off point. A bridge to a potentially foldable future behind a great marketing strategy. So is Apple hinting at a foldable with the iPhone Air? Time will tell, but it seems to me that it won't be long until Apple decides it's finally ready to be sliced. Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared the two ultra-slim phones, and here's the winner
I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgrade
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use