We Went to Andrew Yang's No-Phones Party in New York City - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
A millennial and a Gen Zer went to a no-phones party in New York City. Our nerves gave way to magic.
By
Melia Russell
and
Amanda Yen
Your dedicated reporters turned in this story at 3 a.m. You're welcome.
Kamden Haynes
2025-09-19T08:07:41Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The Yang Gang, tech bros, and two Business Insider reporters partied in Flatiron on Thursday night.
We put our phones away for the first time in too long.
The free, offline party inspired dance moves, a little flirting, and great pics.
Manhattan's most analog party starts with a confiscation. At the door on Thursday night, I slipped my iPhone into a black pouch and clicked it shut. No excuses. Time to make eye contact.I'm 35 and newly back in New York. My plus one, Amanda, is 24 and could sort the room in seconds: tech bros here, corporate girls there, the deadpan "Gen Z stare" everywhere.
We treated the no-phones Offline party like an anxiety-inducing field test. I brought millennial loneliness and a habit of hiding behind a screen. Amanda brought cheerleader confidence and a faster stride. We stepped onto a roof of strangers to see who could survive longer without a screen.I found the Offline party through, of all places, host Andrew Yang's Instagram. I'd been prepping to interview the former presidential candidate about Noble Mobile, his new cellphone plan that pays users back for the data they don't use.A few days earlier, he'd posted shots from the last Offline bash — sweaty crowds of tech bros dressed for a demo day and women dancing shoulder-to-shoulder. Later in the week, he shared a video of himself plopping down in a park. The words "touch grass" burst into frame.
Going offline is on brand for Yang. In his 2020 presidential run, he appealed to voters by warning of the ills of automation and the threat to jobs. His proposed solution: a universal basic income that gives every adult American $1,000 a month with no strings attached.The Yang Gang eats it up. They're a low-key yet dedicated group of younger, mostly male tech workers, many of whom joined the hive during his presidential campaign. In the years since, they've diligently followed and frequented his no-phone parties, which require an RSVP through the online invite app Posh.Yang's seventh Offline of the year drew 1,600 RSVPs for a Manhattan rooftop lounge that holds about 500, organizers said. Entry was free and first-come, first-served.
While phones were banned, cameras were not. And so, equipped with a good old-fashioned camera and with Amanda by my side, we stepped into the party. Here's what it was like.
The first question we had going into Offline was: Who's going to these parties?
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Three minutes in, we had our answer. The Yang Gang.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
These guys made a beeline for the merch table and picked up shirts to promote Yang's cellphone plan.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
We talked to a Harlem real-estate agent who worries about a tech-driven wipeout of entry-level jobs. He's into UBI.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Early in the party, we saw Yang snake across the dance floor, shaking hands with people as he fled to the roof for air.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Behind a velvet rope, the star was a box of turf.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Partygoers lined up for their official "touch grass" portrait, laying tender hands on the sod, which was literally put on a pedestal.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Bartenders poured themed drinks like the Offline Mode with mezcal and banana liqueur.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
"Touch Grass" and "End the Brain Rot" pulsed in projected letters, turning the walls into a "Black Mirror"-style PSA.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
The venue — the popular club Somewhere Nowhere in Flatiron's tech hub — was not the bumping, noisy lounge of Amanda's nights past.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Downstairs, the vibe was nightclub-meets-WeWork happy hour, where the DJ frat-flicked to pop music. Message boards invited you to share favorite books and pickup lines.
Amanda Yen/Business Insider
The no-phone rule really did inspire connection. Without a screen to check every few minutes, we were forced to look up, which meant making eye contact, which meant having a conversation.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
There was no dating app-inspired shyness in this room. Single men approached us openly. If you want to date a New York tech bro, Andrew Yang's Offline parties are a swell place to start.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Upstairs, the vibe shifted dramatically. It was cooler, calmer, and reminded us of the backyard house parties we reveled in as teenagers.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Standing on top of the boarded-up pool — post-Labor Day in New York City, remember — we ran into a group of four 20-something women who'd just arrived.
Melia Russell/Business Insider
Why did they come? They thought it looked cool on Instagram.
Kamden Haynes
Do you have a story to share about tech parties or connecting offline? Contact these reporters at mrussell@businessinsider.com and ayen@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account