A judge has decided if Google has to sell Chrome or not, and it's good news for some
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
A judge has decided if Google has to sell Chrome or not, and it's good news for some
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 3, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Judge rules Google can keep Chrome to avoid disrupting users and the Chromium ecosystem.
Google can't force pre-installing apps like the Play Store, Search, Chrome, Assistant, or Gemini on new Android phones.
Google must share search index data and user metrics with qualified rivals.
A year ago, Google came under fire after a judge ruled that it was holding a monopoly. While that was the easy part, the hard bit came next: how do you "de-monopolise" Google? The judge had a few ideas as to how it could cut up its iron grip on the market to make things fairer for its competitors, and as you might imagine, Google wasn't a big fan. The most interesting proposal the judge made was that
Google had to sell Chrome to another company. As you might imagine, there were
plenty of interested buyers for Chrome, but Google upheld that
nobody could maintain the browser like it could. Well, it seems that the judge has agreed, as Google was allowed to keep Chrome; however, while Google won a big victory for keeping its primary assets, it does have to make some concessions.
Google Chrome will stay in Alphabet's clutch, rules judge
As reported by Ars Technica, Google put on a stalwart defense to keep Chrome. It argued that, while handing over the reins to Chrome to another company would definitely reduce its monopoly on the market, it would spell disaster for the people who use it. After all, there are a ton of different technologies tied to Chrome that Google runs, and these would have to be pried off and replaced should another company take it. Well, it seems the judge agreed with Google, as it ruled that Chrome would stay with Google. This is obviously fantastic news for Google, but it's also a relief for people who rely on Chrome or Chromium browsers and don't want to see their daily driver get hollowed out as it's passed over to a third party. Unfortunately for the tech giant, it didn't escape entirely unscathed. However, it did have a say on what it gave up, so it's a half-loss in a way. To start, if a company wanted to release an Android phone, Google is not allowed to force them to pre-install any of its own apps on the device, such as the Play Store, Search, Chrome, Google Assistant, or Gemini. The company can still install them if it believes that it'll enhance its users' experience, but it's no longer essential. Also, rival search engine owners will be pleased to hear that Google must surrender "search index data and user metrics" to "qualified competitors." Whether or not this causes people to leave Google for other search engines is yet to be seen, but it's still a huge boon for services such as Bing and DuckDuckGo to peek into the inner workings of the search giant. Assuming it doesn't ask for a pause, Google has 60 days to implement the changes, and a committee will spend six years keeping an eye on Alphabet to ensure it does what it was told. As such, it'll be a while until we see Android phones without Gemini or improvements to rival search engines, but they will becoming. And, most importantly, Chrome isn't going anywhere.
Software and Services
Google Chrome
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
RickTheMelon
RickTheMelon
RickTheMelon
#XQ408557
Member since 2025-09-03
0
Threads
4
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Right, now can we PLEASE go after Microsoft next? Somebody has to stop them from this complete strangle-hold on the OS market. Forcing Edge, CoPilot and all the other 'gumf' upon us. Let us out. Remember the 90's they got done for shipping Internet Explorer with Windows? Can't we go back to that mindset?
2025-09-03 08:00:19
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
7 days ago
Immutable operating systems are a blessing and a curse
5 days ago
5 PC components where I never chase looks over performance
6 days ago
6 lightweight tools I install before anything else on a new PC
6 days ago
You only have a few hours left to grab this 2TB portable SSD for just $100
Today's best deals
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
2 hours ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
8 hours ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I added my project and meeting notes to NotebookLM and the results were wild
The hidden costs of self-hosting that I regret finding out the hard way
3 reasons to pick Cronos: The New Dawn over Hell is Us this month, and 3 things the latter does better
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.