Finance - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Business
Finance
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
The 20 financial firms that could be hardest hit from Trump's new H-1B fee — from Goldman Sachs to Citi
7 min read
Charlie Javice says she can't fly, requests 2nd delay in JPMorgan Chase fraud sentencing
3 min read
JPMorgan CEO pushes back on Trump's new visa cost for foreign workers
Jamie Dimon, CEO of JPMorgan, anticipates pushback against Trump's executive order imposing a $100,000 fee on H-1B visa applications.
2 min read
Exclusive
$12 billion Walleye will back a new $500 million hedge fund from a former Millennium and Citadel healthcare portfolio manager
Soren Gandrud's Jones Hill is expected to begin trading in the first quarter of 2026 with at least $500 million.
2 min read
Inside PayPal's global effort to uplift small businesses and their communities
More than 11,000 PayPal employees came together for Impact Day, a global initiative that uplifts small businesses and fosters community growth.
5 min read
A finance veteran says junior bankers aren't doomed — they're actually supercharged by AI
Sopnendu Mohanty worked at Citi for nearly two decades. He says AI will help junior bankers engage their clients more effectively.
2 min read
JPMorgan economists predict the H-1B visa's new $100,000 fee could cut 5,500 work authorizations per month
A JPMorgan report warns that Trump's H-1B visa change will dramatically reduce work authorizations, impacting US companies and foreign workers alike.
2 min read
Oracle's Larry Ellison is worth more than Bank of America after doubling his wealth this year to nearly $400 billion
Oracle cofounder Larry Ellison has grown almost $200 billion richer this year, and is now worth more than one of the world's biggest banks.
2 min read
BYD shares dropped after news that Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway sold its entire stake
Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway likely made about $7 billion or 30 times its money from its 16-year investment in BYD, Business Insider found.
4 min read
What a $9 billion takeover battle says about the next frontier in the AI arms race
Core Scientific shareholders are pushing back on a $9 billion deal, arguing that in the AI era, electricity is the most valuable asset of all.
5 min read
Changes to an all-important visa for corporate America leave businesses and workers scrambling
Corporate America was thrown into chaos Friday night after the Trump administration issued a surprise executive order for a critical visa.
7 min read
Private equity wants to help retirement savers earn more. Figuring out returns might break your brain.
The private-equity industry is casting itself as a savior for the American nest-egg. It can be really hard to figure out if they're right.
7 min read
8 financial titans share their advice for young people on how to succeed at work and in life
Billionaires Leon Cooperman, Jeff Greene, and John Calamos told Business Insider that passion and hard work are key to getting ahead.
5 min read
Lottery winners who lost it all: how jackpot dreams turned into nightmares
Hitting the jackpot changes lottery winners' lives, but not always for the best. Some people lost millions, ending up bankrupt, divorced, or dead.
13 min read
Thinking you're bad at finance is a 'self-fulfilling prophecy,' a money expert says. She suggests 3 ways to change that.
Abi Foster, accountant and financial educator, said keeping all of your money in a checking account is like handing it straight over to a bank.
2 min read
Meet the exec taking the helm of Blackstone's $105 billion real estate fund after the tragic loss of Wesley LePatner
Katie Keenan spent 13 years at Blackstone and will now lead BREIT, its $105 billion real estate fund for wealthy investors.
2 min read
Newly revealed Epstein secrets could help victims get their hands on more of his fortune
Only about 25% of Jeffrey Epstein's fortune went to his sexual abuse accusers. Congressional investigations into his finances could change that.
5 min read
Elon Musk's $1 trillion pay deal is ambitious — but so was his last 'mammoth' one, tech guru says
Tech investor Eric Schiffer says Tesla investors will be ecstatic if Elon Musk completes all the lofty goals in his proposed $1 trillion pay plan.
3 min read
Kevin Durant bought bitcoin in 2016 but lost access to his crypto wallet for years. He's finally back in.
NBA star Kevin Durant invested in bitcoin nearly a decade ago, but has been locked out of his Coinbase wallet for years — until now.
3 min read
The new Amex Platinum card will cost $895 a year. Here's what it gets you.
With an $895 annual fee, the Amex Platinum card now costs more than Chase's rival offering, and includes new dining, travel, and wellness benefits.
3 min read
5 mistakes people make when talking about money with loved ones, according to an etiquette expert
According to an etiquette expert, one common mistake people make when talking about money with loved ones is asking how much a big purchase costs.
3 min read
Elon Musk's $1 trillion pay package could help Tesla 'get his attention,' finance professor says
The $1 trillion pay package might keep Elon Musk's attention on Tesla, and motivate him to realize its ambitions in robotics, Derek Horstmeyer said.
4 min read
How Trump's quarterly earnings shake-up could disrupt the white-collar ecosystem
President Trump's call for fewer earnings reports stands to save publicly traded companies millions, including money spent on white-collar jobs.
6 min read
Between StubHub and Klarna, bankers say roaring IPO demand feels like 2021 again
Public investors are clamoring for new IPOs. But some bankers are seeing more buyers than top companies ready to list.
7 min read
A 90-year-old Supreme Court precedent protecting Fed independence is on its deathbed
A Supreme Court case called "Humphrey's Executor" has shielded independent agency leaders from political influence. In the Trump era, that's changing.
7 min read
Feds tell judge that Charlie Javice should spend 12 years in prison for defrauding JPMorgan Chase
Federal prosecutors say Charlie Javice's apology ahead of her sentencing hearing was "hollow" after the Frank founder was convicted of fraud.
2 min read
The world's 3 richest people are worth a combined $1 trillion — about as much as Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway
Elon Musk, Larry Ellison, and Marc Zuckerberg have grown much richer thanks to huge AI demand growth in recent years.
3 min read
She was almost booted from her basketball team for being a girl. Now she's a partner at Goldman Sachs.
Sara Naison-Tarajano of Goldman Sachs shares how her sports experiences shaped her success in finance, highlighting resilience and a growth mindset.
4 min read
A winning investment: How a robust workplace benefits program brings value to employees and employers
Boost success with a strong workplace benefits program—enhancing employee value, employer ROI, and fostering a productive environment.
1 min read
Elon Musk just spent $1 billion on Tesla shares. He'll have to spend a lot more to ramp up his control.
Elon Musk slightly boosted his ownership of Tesla to 12.8%, making a small step toward the 25% target he outlined last year.
3 min read
Trump says companies shouldn't have to report earnings every quarter
In a Truth Social post on Monday, Trump said US companies should be able to report earnings every six months, not every 3, as currently required.
3 min read
A Bain veteran shares the interview strategies that can help you land a top consulting role
Spencer Anderson, a former senior manager at Bain, says candidates who are authentic have the best chance of landing a consulting gig.
6 min read
This new fund from an ex-BlackRock exec is bringing the Wall Street playbook behind music royalties to tech
Althera42 is hoping to raise $300 million and will primarily invest in technology infrastructure companies in Europe and the UK.
3 min read
Who is Lisa Cook? Meet the Fed governor Trump said he fired but is refusing to leave
Federal Reserve Gov. Lisa Cook has spent a lifetime blazing trails. Now, she's fighting with Donald Trump over her future at the Fed.
6 min read
Veteran investor John Rogers shares 3 tips for young people to get ahead — and his advice for wealthy parents
John Rogers of Ariel Investments says passion, relationships, and reliability are key to success at work and in life.
4 min read
He's a billionaire who never went to college. Here's how Don Vultaggio made his fortune.
Don Vultaggio cofounded AriZona iced tea in 1992 after running a beer-distributing business for 20 years. He's worth nearly $6 billion.
5 min read
Value investor John Rogers sees signs of market 'frothiness' — but touts Oracle and 2 other stocks as winners
Ariel Investments' John Rogers said there are signs of market excess and economic pressure,
and picked three stocks as winning bets.
3 min read
Bank of America names top deputies, offering clues to Moynihan's successor
Bank of America elevated veterans Jim DeMare and Dean Athanasia as co-presidents on Friday, giving them expanded oversight and responsibility.
2 min read
'Y'all Street' is booming: What financial giants like Goldman Sachs and Bank of America are building in Texas
From Goldman to NYSE,
Wall Street stalwarts are expanding in Texas, drawn by business-friendly taxes and regulations.
6 min read
'Bond King' Bill Gross says he's worried AI giants are wasting money — and their stocks could pay the price
Billionaire investor Bill Gross told Business Insider that tech titans are spending big to win the AI race, but some are bound to fail.
2 min read
Japan's market surge is still gaining speed — here's what's driving it higher
The Nikkei's latest surge reflects a combination of global monetary shifts and spillover from the AI boom converging with politics in Tokyo.
3 min read
How an early investment in Figure turned into a massive win for a VC who heard the pitch while eating burgers in San Francisco
DCM's early investment in Figure Technologies is set to yield a 60x return, based on the company's opening NASDAQ price. It all started over burgers.
4 min read
This $250 million asset manager is reviving a short-selling hedge fund as it bets on a coming downturn
Little Harbor Advisors will invest in external short-selling firms like Orso Partners and internal portfolio managers through its new fund.
2 min read
Elon Musk has retaken his title of world's richest person from Larry Ellison — but it's very close
Larry Ellison briefly eclipsed Elon Musk in wealth on Wednesday, and the Oracle cofounder remains hot on the Tesla chief's heels.
2 min read
20-year-old fintech Klarna finally went public. Here's who's getting rich.
"Buy now, pay later" giant Klarna went public on Wednesday. We calculated the value of its top shareholders' stakes after the IPO.
14 min read
Point72 quant head Denis Dancanet is out. WorldQuant's former CIO is taking over Cubist.
Point72 appointed Geoffrey Lauprete, who was planning to launch his own fund, to lead its quant unit, Cubist.
3 min read
What Jeffrey Epstein's birthday book tells us about his Wall Street origins
He went from teaching math to managing millions. Letters from Bear Stearns colleagues show how Jeffrey Epstein started his financial ascent.
5 min read
Larry Ellison doubles wealth gain this year to $200 billion after Oracle stock surges
Oracle stock surged on Wednesday morning, boosting the value of Larry Ellison's stake by tens of billions.
2 min read
Here's what 8 business titans told Jeffrey Epstein in his birthday book
Leon Black wrote a poem and signed it "love and kisses." Les Wexner doodled a woman's chest. A tech executive sent photos of animals having sex.
10 min read
The list of major companies laying off staff this year includes Oracle, Kroger, Nike, Scale AI, and more
Layoffs have hit companies from Nike to Meta to Intel this year amid a backdrop of cost-cutting and technological change.
29 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.