Careers at NPR : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Careers at NPR When you step into NPR, you'll be alongside some of the most curious, intelligent and accomplished journalists and storytellers, all working for the same goal — to create a more informed public.
Careers at NPR
Updated April 25, 20241:09 PM ET
Originally published June 4, 20134:17 PM ET
Enlarge this image
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
NPR
Work with a mission. Having a career at NPR means joining a culture of unique perspectives, all working for the same goal — to create a more informed public. When you step into NPR, you'll be alongside some of the most curious, intelligent and accomplished journalists and storytellers around. NPR's mission is carried out with the hard work and creative contributions of more than 900 employees all across the globe. Talented professionals with an incredibly diverse array of talents and backgrounds — from audio, print and visual journalists, to developers, designers, engineers, executives, communications specialists, IT experts, lawyers, accountants and so much more — all coming together to create, support and promote NPR's award-winning content.
SEARCH JOBS
Internships & Fellowships
Internships Interns at NPR are given real-world, hands-on responsibilities. Working alongside top professionals in the field, interns do meaningful work across a variety of departments at NPR. Find out how you can contribute your diverse talents to gain invaluable experience at a thriving multimedia organization.
Kroc Fellowship Each year, three journalists are selected to participate in an intensive, year-long program at NPR and our Member Stations. The Kroc Fellowship program was developed to honor and recognize the 2003 bequest from Joan B. Kroc, philanthropist and widow of McDonald's Corporation founder Ray A. Kroc.
Reflect America Fellowship The 2024-25 Reflect America Fellowship will bring a tenacious journalist to NPR for 12 months to join our Climate Desk and report on vulnerable communities, particularly Indigenous communities. Fellows will have the choice of working remotely or on site.
Above the Fray Fellowship NPR and the John Alexander Project have collaborated to offer a reporting fellowship designed to give a promising journalist the opportunity to cover important, but under-reported, international stories.
Ishiyama Transparency in Government Fellowship The Ishiyama Transparency in Government Fellowship is a two-year program designed to provide recent law school graduates with valuable experience in First Amendment and media law, and help support public-service journalism by keeping the government accountable to its citizens.
Code Switch Fellowship The inaugural Code Switch fellowship is dedicated to training the next generation of journalists interested in telling thoughtful, nuanced stories about race. One fellow will be selected to be embedded with the Code Switch team to report and to produce episodes of the show.
Applicant Rights & EEO Policy
NPR is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All decisions concerning any employment relationship will be made without regard to age, race, ethnicity, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin, religious affiliation, marital status, citizenship status, veteran status, the presence of any physical or mental disability or any other status or characteristic protected by federal, state or local law. Discrimination, retaliation or harassment based upon any of these factors is entirely inconsistent with NPR's culture and values and will not be tolerated. Applicants have rights under federal employment law:— Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) — Employee Polygraph Protection Act (EPPA) — Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)— Pay Transparency Nondiscrimination Provision
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor