Danish officials believe drone flyovers at 4 airports meant to sow fear : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Danish officials believe drone flyovers at 4 airports meant to sow fear Defense Minister Troels Lund Poulsen said it appeared a "professional actor" was behind the "systematic" flights, without providing additional details during a news conference Thursday morning.
Europe
Danish officials believe drone flyovers at 4 airports meant to sow fear
September 25, 20255:23 AM ET
By
The Associated Press
People walk outside Aalborg Airport in Denmark on Thursday, Sept. 25, 2025, after drones were observed on the airport on Wednesday evening and the night to Thursday, and the airspace over the airport was closed.
Bo Amstrup/Ritzau Scanpix Foto/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Bo Amstrup/Ritzau Scanpix Foto/AP
COPENHAGEN, Denmark — Drones flew over Aalborg Airport in northern Denmark overnight Wednesday into Thursday, as well as three smaller airports in the country, but it was not immediately clear who was behind the incidents, authorities said. Defense Minister Troels Lund Poulsen said it appeared a "professional actor" was behind the "systematic" flights, without providing additional details during a news conference Thursday morning. Authorities said there was no danger to the public. The goal of the flyovers was to sow fear and division, Danish Minister of Justice Peter Hummelgaard said Thursday, adding that the country will seek additional ways to neutralize drones including proposing legislation to allow infrastructure owners to shoot them down.
Sponsor Message
World
NATO warns Russia against flying in member's airspace — again
Flights were halted for several hours at Aalborg Airport, which also serves as a military base. Drone sightings began shortly before 10 p.m. Wednesday and ended just before 1 a.m. Thursday. The airports in Esbjerg, Sønderborg and Skrydstrup also were impacted. Skrydstrup is an air base that is home to some of the Danish military's fighter jets. The drones appeared to be flying around the airports with their lights turned on but authorities decided against attempting to shoot down the drones, police said. Additional details were not immediately available. The latest drone activity comes just a few days after a similar incident at Copenhagen Airport, conducted by what police call a "capable actor." The Copenhagen drones grounded flights in the Danish capital for hours Monday night, prompting concerns that Russia could be behind the flyover above Scandinavia's largest airport. It was not immediately clear whether the Copenhagen flyover was related to the incidents later in the week.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor