winforms - Empty .NET 9 Windows Forms application causing access denied due to Windows Defender ASR - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Empty .NET 9 Windows Forms application causing access denied due to Windows Defender ASR
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
23 times
0
For the past few weeks, I've been having problems debugging or launching a Windows Forms application.
Target framework is .NET 9, and I'm using the latest version of VS2022, running as administrator.
I create an empty Windows Forms application, and just run/debug it.
VS is throwing an "access denied" error (see screenshot):
enter image description here
Apparently, it's Windows Defender protection - app or process blocked, attack surface reduction.
Here's another screenshot:
I've already tried signing / strong naming the project, but that does not seem to make a difference.
enter image description here
Any other ideas?
I need to be able to debug the Winforms project without the access denied error. Or launching the published .exe also without the same error.
winformsaccess-denied.net-9.0windows-defender
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 15 hours ago
marc_s
759k185185 gold badges1.4k1.4k silver badges1.5k1.5k bronze badges
asked 16 hours ago
Thomas GielissenThomas Gielissen
1
New contributor
Thomas Gielissen is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
3
Let me guess - you're working for Spikes NV which uses custom rules to block any applications not trusted by their antivirus programs or policies. You'll have to talk to your administrator to find out what's allowed or not, or what changed.
Panagiotis Kanavos
–
Panagiotis Kanavos
2025-09-25 12:16:29 +00:00
Commented
16 hours ago
1
Signing your program with a self-signed certificate will only make things worse as such certificates are not trusted by definition. Even if you add it in your trusted certificates list, it's not trusted by the company
Panagiotis Kanavos
–
Panagiotis Kanavos
2025-09-25 12:21:50 +00:00
Commented
16 hours ago
Debuggers behave exactly the way malware does, as far as antivirus programs are concerned - attaching to another process, reading or modifying its memory, modifying execution. An overly restrictive policy would stop IDEs from launching and debugging other executables. This isn't a Windows Defender issue though - as I said, lots of devs use it. It's a company policy issue
Panagiotis Kanavos
–
Panagiotis Kanavos
2025-09-25 12:24:04 +00:00
Commented
16 hours ago
Add a comment
|
Related questions
656
How can I save application settings in a Windows Forms application?
271
Unable to copy file - access to the path is denied
105
How do I fix a .NET windows application crashing at startup with Exception code: 0xE0434352?
Related questions
656
How can I save application settings in a Windows Forms application?
271
Unable to copy file - access to the path is denied
105
How do I fix a .NET windows application crashing at startup with Exception code: 0xE0434352?
199
Visual Studio build fails: unable to copy exe-file from obj\debug to bin\debug
111
IIS Express gives Access Denied error when debugging ASP.NET MVC
312
Best way to implement keyboard shortcuts in a Windows Forms application?
175
pip install access denied on Windows
277
How can I make a .NET Windows Forms application that only runs in the System Tray?
Load 5 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
winformsaccess-denied.net-9.0windows-defender
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
The history and future of software development (part 1)
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
Can a state execute an ICC arrest warrant in international waters?
How to crack ECC using halving
Plotting functions without sampling artefacts
How can blood fuel space travel?
Ian Stewart, Definition for Primitive Root of Unity
What is the effectiveness of using a miniature (ground) plane to route vias through as opposed to using separate paths and vias?
What exactly makes something a "phased-out creature"
How do I make the middle of the bill curve up?
Verify a Chinese ID Number
Does the Arostotelian species-genus concept apply to non-living things?
Time traveler named Tom/John forgets device, Penelope Weschler, machine harvests Earth's spin
How to draw the following graph in latex?
What is the exact meaning of olcAccess: {1}to dn.exact="" by * read
Could our telescopes detect a type I civilisation
What is the exact method of calculating a number needed to treat (NNT) in a meta-analysis?
How to handle a warlock with Aspect of the Moon and Visions of Distant Realms?
What is an aggravating factor and why is kinship considered one?
Lock icon to convey disabled but has a clickable feature?
Simplification of an analytically evaluated integral expressed in terms of elliptic integrals
Space Princess Space Tours: Black Holes merging - what would you visually see?
Removing temporary LaTeX files
What is this glass device I found next to drinking glasses in the south of France
Does clipping distortion affect the information contained within a frequency-modulated signal?
What does it mean for work to be done ON a system?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.25.34480