MoneyWatch: Financial news, world finance and market news, your money, product recalls updated daily - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Watch CBS News
MoneyWatch
Managing Your Money
CBS News Price Tracker
Latest News
Meta's AI glasses could mean more independence for the blind community
Members of the blind community have found new ways to use the AI technology to help manage everyday tasks, such as reading the mail.
8H ago
Bankrupt Spirit Airlines is furloughing one-third of its flight attendants
Spirit Airlines to furlough 1,800 flight attendants as budget carrier restructures, looks to cut costs.
6H ago
Loopholes in hospital charity care programs stick patients with bills
Even if people qualify for financial help with their hospital bills, the care they receive may not be covered.
15H ago
Trump administration to add $100,000 fee for H-1B visas
The Trump administration is targeting a visa widely used by tech companies and other employers to hire foreign workers.
Sep 20
Google enters second court battle against DOJ over alleged monopoly
The two sides will spend the next two weeks presenting evidence in a "remedy" trial that threatens to dismantle the search giant's empire.
7H ago
Ex-Disney CEO Michael Eisner weighs in on Jimmy Kimmel's suspension
In response to ABC's suspension of late-night host Jimmy Kimmel, ex-Disney CEO Michael Eisner asked, "Where has all the leadership gone?"
Sep 19
3 reasons your grocery bill is getting more expensive
Here's why groceries are costing more, and what American consumers can do to save money at the supermarket.
Sep 20
Trump unveils "Gold Card" fast-track visas for $1 million
President Trump's "Gold Card" program will be rolled out in the coming weeks, allowing the world's wealthy to apply for fast-track visas — if they pay $1 million or more.
Sep 19
Here's what immigration attorneys say about Trump's $100,000 H-1B fee
Heavy new H-1B visa fee raises numerous questions, immigration law experts told CBS News. Here's what employees and employers should know.
2H ago
Managing Your Money
More
$50,000 home equity loan vs. $50,000 HELOC: Which is cheaper now, post-Fed rate cut?
Interest rate cuts haven't identically impacted each home equity borrowing product. Here's which is cheaper now.
4H ago
How much will a $100,000 home equity loan cost monthly now that the Fed cut interest rates?
5 home equity borrowing traps to watch for this fall, according to experts
Waiting for an October mortgage rate drop? 3 things homebuyers should do in the interim
Are you a homebuyer waiting for another mortgage rate drop in October? Here's what to do while waiting.
5H ago
What are the monthly payments on a $1 million mortgage now that the Fed has cut rates?
Will mortgage interest rates drop further this fall? Lending experts weigh in
What is the average cost of a Medicare Supplemental plan in 2025?
Medicare supplement premiums can vary widely, but here's what most beneficiaries pay for coverage each month.
6H ago
What is the 3-day rule for Medicare and how does it impact your coverage?
What are the 6 things that Original Medicare won't cover?
More
From Our Data Team
Tracking rising cost of cars, trucks, groceries ahead of Trump's tariffs
CBS News is tracking the rising cost of products most impacted by tariffs imposed​ and soon-to-be-imposed by President Trump, from grocery items to cars and trucks.
Aug 4
MoneyWatch price tracker shows how much food, utility, housing costs are rising
These charts track prices consumers pay for groceries and other goods now compared to five years ago.
Sep 11
Retirement
What to know about Trump's push to open 401(k) to crypto and private equity
President Trump signed an executive order that he says will democratize alternative investments for workers saving for retirement.
Aug 12
Trump opens the door for crypto and private equity in your 401(k) plan
Under a new executive order signed by President Trump, workers could add higher-risk assets like cryptocurrencies to their 401(k)s.
Aug 7
How the FIRE movement is inspiring early retirees
Nik and Adinah Johnson, who retired in their forties, are part of FIRE (Financial Independence, Retire Early), a movement that looks at work as a means to an end, and where frugality buys freedom from the rat race.
Aug 3
Work
Workers fired, placed on leave for Charlie Kirk comments after assassination
A range of companies and other organizations are sanctioning — and sometimes firing — workers over their public comments about Charlie Kirk. They may have little recourse.
Sep 16
Burned out at work? An expert offers advice on how to reduce stress.
Organizing your day and "micro routines" can help stressed out employees deal with the pressures of the day, according to lifestyle expert Maisha Wynn.
Aug 28
Job hoppers are pumping the brakes as the U.S. labor market downshifts
Workers are seeing far smaller pay increases from switching employers than during the pandemic, Bank of America Institute data shows.
Aug 28
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue