The Best REIT ETFs to Buy | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
What Is a Real Estate ETF?
The 5 Best REIT ETFs to Buy in 2025
Dimensional US Real Estate ETF
Schwab US REIT ETF
SPDR Dow Jones Global Real Estate ETF
Vanguard Global ex-US Real Estate ETF
Vanguard Real Estate ETF
Pros and Cons of Investing in REIT ETFs
How to Find More Top REIT ETFs to Buy
Home
Funds
The Best REIT ETFs to Buy
The Best REIT ETFs to Buy
These real estate ETFs earn top ratings from Morningstar in 2025.
Susan Dziubinski
Sep 16, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Dimensional US Real Estate ETF
(DFAR)
SPDR® Dow Jones® Global Real Estate ETF
(RWO)
Vanguard Real Estate ETF
(VNQ)
Vanguard Global ex-US Real Est ETF
(VNQI)
Schwab US REIT ETF™
(SCHH)
Real estate investment trusts, or REITs, are popular long-term investments for their attractive yields. Some investors own REITs as a way to diversify their investment portfolios, too.Rather than buy one or more REITs individually, investors can get exposure to a collection of REITs through a real estate exchange-traded fund. How to Use Real Estate in Your Portfolio
What Is a Real Estate ETF?Real estate ETFs are managed products that invest in a basket of real estate operating companies and/or REITs.
Real Estate Operating Companies (REOCs) Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) Trade on public exchangesTrade on public exchangesFocus on real estate development and building projectsManage a wide variety of properties and collect rentReinvest profits for growthDistribute income as dividends The biggest difference between the two is that REOCs typically reinvest profits back into their businesses, while REITs must pay out 90% of their taxable income to shareholders as dividends. As a result of their legal structure, REITs typically offer attractive yields, and that has made REITs the investment of choice for most real estate ETFs.ETFs that invest in real estate stocks can be simple one-stop solutions for a few reasons:REIT ETFs maintain a portfolio of real estate stocks and thereby provide instant diversification within the sector.REIT ETFs are, in general, low-cost.Real estate ETFs are easy to buy and sell; many of the best REIT ETFs are managed by popular asset managers with brokerage platforms.Those investors who’d like to get exposure to real estate stocks through an ETF have several highly rated REIT ETFs to choose from. The 5 Best REIT ETFs to Buy in 2025The best REIT ETFs all land in one of Morningstar’s two real estate categories and earn Morningstar Medalist Ratings of Bronze or higher with 100% analyst coverage. All data is as of Sept. 12, 2025.Dimensional US Real Estate ETF DFARSchwab US REIT ETF SCHHSPDR Dow Jones Global Real Estate ETF RWOVanguard Global ex-US Real Estate ETF VNQIVanguard Real Estate ETF VNQMorningstar expects the highly rated real estate ETFs on this list to outperform their peers over a full market cycle. But even though the funds on our list of the top REIT ETFs all focus on real estate, they practice very different strategies, and as a result they can behave very differently from each other. Investors need to do some homework to understand exactly what a particular REIT ETF invests in before buying.Here are a couple of things for investors to think about as they research the funds on our list of top-rated REIT ETFs to buy.Do I want an active REIT ETF or a passive REIT ETF? Most real estate ETFs are passive investments, which means they’re tracking a particular index; there’s no manager actively picking stocks. Just one of the names on our list of top REIT ETFs is actively managed.Do I want an ETF that sticks with US REITs or one that includes non-US real estate stocks? Three of the funds on our list of top real estate ETFs focus on US real estate, one invests in US and non-US real estate, and one focuses exclusively on non-US real estate. Why go international with a real estate ETF? Geographical diversification, for one. Non-US real estate stocks often provide higher yields than their US counterparts, too. Here’s a quick look at each of the best REIT ETFs. Be sure to review an ETF’s complete report for more details.Dimensional US Real Estate ETFMorningstar Medalist Rating: GoldMorningstar Category: Real EstateActive or Index? ActiveIndex Tracked: N/AYield: 2.77%The only Gold-rated fund on our list of the best REIT ETFs to invest in, Dimensional US Real Estate ETF follows an active rules-based strategy that provides exposure to a broad swath of US REITs. A sound investment process and strong management team underpin the ETF’s high rating.Read Morningstar’s full report on Dimensional US Real Estate ETF. Schwab US REIT ETFMorningstar Medalist Rating: BronzeMorningstar Category: Real EstateActive or Index? IndexIndex Tracked: Dow Jones Equity All REIT Capped IndexYield: 2.96%The first of several index funds on our list of the best real estate ETFs, Schwab US REIT provides pure exposure to domestic REITs. The Dow Jones Equity All REIT Capped Index includes liquid US REITs with market caps above $200 million and weights them by market capitalization.Read Morningstar’s full report on Schwab US REIT ETF.SPDR Dow Jones Global Real Estate ETFMorningstar Medalist Rating: BronzeMorningstar Category: Global Real EstateActive or Index? IndexIndex Tracked: Dow Jones Global Select Real Estate Securities IndexYield: 3.62%The first global real estate fund on our list of REIT ETFs to buy, SPDR Dow Jones Global Real Estate ETF holds about 28% of its portfolio in non-US real estate. More than 90% of the index this ETF tracks consists of REITs. The Dow Jones Global Select Real Estate Securities Index includes large, liquid REITs and real estate operating companies from around the world weighted by market capitalization.Read Morningstar’s full report on SPDR Dow Jones Global Real Estate ETF.Vanguard Global ex-US Real Estate ETFMorningstar Medalist Rating: BronzeMorningstar Category: Global Real EstateActive or Index? IndexIndex Tracked: S&P Global ex-US Property IndexYield: 4.33%The highest-yielding ETF on our list of the top real estate ETFs to buy, Vanguard Global ex-US Real Estate ETF excludes US REITs from its portfolio. Asian real estate securities dominate the portfolio, and, as a result, the fund’s category-relative performance can fluctuate with the broad Asia-Pacific market. Also notably, its portfolio is skewed more toward real estate stocks instead of REITs.Read Morningstar’s full report on Vanguard Global ex-US Real Estate ETF.Vanguard Real Estate ETFMorningstar Medalist Rating: SilverMorningstar Category: Real EstateActive or Index? IndexIndex Tracked: MSCI US Investable Market Real Estate 25/50 IndexYield: 3.76%Vanguard Real Estate ETF is by far the most popular and largest name on our list of top REIT ETFs to buy. Its portfolio features REITs as well as real estate management and development firms.Read Morningstar’s full report on Vanguard Real Estate ETF.Pros and Cons of Investing in REIT ETFs
Pros of REIT ETFs Cons of REIT ETFs Attractive yields at a low costLess tax-efficient than other ETF typesA managed product with limited per-issue riskLess overall portfolio diversification than in the pastTend to do well when interest rates fall and/or the economy strengthensTend to underperform when interest rates rise and/or the economy weakens REIT ETFs provide investors with access to a diversified portfolio of real estate securities, thereby reducing per-issue risk. Real estate ETFs also tend to be low-cost and offer attractive yields.But given their income focus, REIT ETFs aren’t as tax-efficient as other types of ETFs that do not invest in dividend-paying stocks.Real estate ETFs typically perform best when interest rates are falling or when the economy is strengthening. They often underperform when interest rates rise or the economy weakens.Although real estate is often touted as a diversifier in an investment portfolio, recent research from Morningstar suggests that the asset class has been a less effective diversifier lately.“In the past, real estate has had relatively low correlations with the broader US equity market,” explains Morningstar portfolio strategist Amy Arnott. “In recent years, however, real estate has generally moved more in tandem with the broader US equity market.” Read More: 3 Assets That Might Not Diversify as Well as You Think
How to Find More Top REIT ETFs to BuyUse these Morningstar resources to help find more REIT ETFs to research further:Review Morningstar’s list of Real Estate Medalist Funds, which includes top-rated ETFs and mutual funds.Research real estate ETFs based on your personal selection criteria by using our Morningstar Investor Screener. The tool, which is available to Morningstar Investor members, allows investors to screen and rank REIT ETFs based on various criteria.Interested in assembling your own basket of REITs instead of buying a REIT ETF? Review Morningstar’s list of The Best REITs to Buy.Visit Morningstar’s real estate sector page for the latest articles and videos about REITs.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
Your Active ETF Is Cheap, But Your Trade Might Not Be How to minimize active ETF bid-ask spreads, and why it’s worth the effort.
Robby Greengold, CFA Sep 25, 2025
Why Schwab U.S. Dividend Equity ETF Remains Exceptional
Recent lackluster performance has not changed our outlook on this fund.
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 24, 2025
3 Ways Private Companies Are Reshaping Public Markets Has the small-cap investment case changed?
Zachary Evens Sep 24, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Susan Dziubinski Investment Specialist
More from Author
Susan Dziubinski is an investment specialist for Morningstar and co-host of The Morning Filter podcast. Email Susan at susan.dziubinski@morningstar.com.
10 Cheap Dividend-Growth Stocks to Buy
Susan Dziubinski Sep 23, 2025
3 Warren Buffett Stocks to Avoid Today
Susan Dziubinski Sep 23, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In
David Sekera, CFA Sep 22, 2025
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global?
Jason Kephart Sep 18, 2025
The Best REIT ETFs to Buy
Susan Dziubinski Sep 16, 2025
4 Must-Own Dividend-Growth Stocks
Susan Dziubinski Sep 16, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off
David Sekera, CFA Sep 15, 2025
5 Stocks to Buy Before the Fed Cuts Interest Rates
David Sekera, CFA Sep 9, 2025
The 10 Best Dividend Stocks
Susan Dziubinski Sep 9, 2025
The Best Bond Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 9, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility