Best AV Receiver for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome EntertainmentAudio AV Receivers
Best AV Receiver for 2025
These are the best AV receivers from Onkyo, Sony, Yamaha and Denon, based on CNET's testing.
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Article updated on July 15, 2025 at 9:00 PM PDT
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Channels
If you’re looking for a Dolby Atmos receiver, the minimum number of channels is seven --
which is written as either 7.1 or 5.1.2 channels). Power specs are mostly made up, but anything over 100 watts per channel in stereo is good.
HDMI inputs
All modern components use the universal HDMI standard and so you should choose a receiver that has as many of these inputs as possible. If you’re a gamer choose one which has HDMI 2.1 so it can transmit 4K/120Hz to a TV as well.
Dolby Atmos capability
Most receivers over $500 include Dolby Atmos capability, but you don’t need to buy height speakers straight away. You can always add them later.
Wi-Fi music streaming
Alongside Bluetooth, many models have onboard Wi-Fi connectivity for wireless music streaming. Standards to look for include Spotify Connect, Apple AirPlay and Google Cast.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If you’re serious about bringing theater-like sound into your home, an AV receiver is the best choice. An AV receiver gives you much more control over how you set up and interact with your home theater system. A receiver has many roles -- it acts as a video switch between components like a streaming box or gaming console, and it also decodes and amplifies audio signals so you can hear them through your speakers. The best receivers offer excellent sound quality and come equipped with 8K video, Dolby Atmos and music streaming capabilities, and they connect to your TV via an HDMI cable. You can start with as little as a pair of stereo speakers and then add rear speakers and a subwoofer later. This will enable you to get the best movie, TV show and music performance to suit your budget. Our Picks
Best AV receiver overall Onkyo TX-NR6100
Jump to details
$750 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best AV receiver for power users Onkyo TX-RZ50
Jump to details
$1,699 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best AV receiver for movies Yamaha RX-A4A
Jump to details
$1,249 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best AV receiver for gaming Sony STR-AN1000
Jump to details
$898 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best AV Receiver for 2025
Best AV receivers of 2025
Best AV receiver overall
Best AV receiver for power users
Best AV receiver for movies
Best AV receiver for gaming
Which receiver should you buy?
Factors to consider when buying an AV receiver
How CNET tests AV receivers
Other AV receivers I tested
AV receiver FAQs
I've tested many of the big-name brands in sound, including Denon, Sony, Yamaha and more, to discover which receivers deliver the best sound. With more than 20 years of home entertainment experience, I've personally had hands-on time with each of the models included on this list and reviewed them based on price, features, sound quality and performance. I'll update the list as more products are released. Best AV receivers of 2025
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best AV receiver overall
Onkyo TX-NR6100
8.3
/10
SCORE
Pros
One of the best music streaming suites
Excellent home theater performance
Fun to use
Compatible with Xbox Series X/4K 120Hz signals
Cons
Not as dynamic with music
The Onkyo TX-NR6100 is my top choice because it's an excellent-sounding receiver at an affordable price. It has a particular knack for Dolby Atmos soundtracks with an expansive, yet detailed sound, and it's also very good at playing back music. It also offers plenty of streaming audio support, so it's ready to entertain as soon as you hook up the Wi-Fi.The TX-NR6100 is a 7 x 100-watt-per-channel receiver with Dolby Atmos and DTS:X support. It includes six HDMI inputs at the back, with three able to pass 8K video; the remaining three ports include HDR10 and Dolby Vision compatibility. Vinyl is still in the middle of a revival, and the NR6100 enables users to take advantage thanks to a dedicated phono input for turntables and record players that lack an onboard phono preamp. Streaming options include Google Cast, DTS Play-Fi, Spotify Connect, Sonos, AirPlay and Bluetooth. Though you can pay much more, or even much less, the Onkyo TX-6100 offers the best mix of usability and performance for the money.  ... Show more
Get it now
$750 at Amazon
$799 at Crutchfield
Specs & Configurations
Number of Channels
7Power in Stereo
100 wattsNumber of HDMI Inputs
6HDMI Version
2.1
Learn more
Onkyo TX-NR6100 review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best AV receiver for power users
Onkyo TX-RZ50
Pros
Dirac Live calibration for excellent sound
Best streaming suite offered in a receiver
Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa connectivity
Cons
Difficult setup for Dirac
Onkyo's TX-RZ50 is a perfect step-up model for those looking to upgrade their home theater systems for a set of better-quality speakers or to add a turntable. Like its budget-oriented label mate, the TX-NR6100, it's stacked with features including the audiophile-level calibration called Dirac Live, as well as the best streaming suite offered in an AV receiver. On that point, being able to request songs directly from Google Assistant or Amazon Alexa is a real boon.What improvements does the $1,699 TX-RZ50 offer over the $800 TX-NR6100? Firstly, it offers double the number of 8K compatible inputs (six versus three) plus it boasts more power (120 watts versus 100 watts). It also has two-way Bluetooth for streaming as well as listening on wireless headphones.The TX-RZ50's performance was excellent, whether listening to streamed music or watching a movie: I hadn't heard Dolby Atmos sound this convincing in a long time. The addition of Dirac Live does pose its own complexities in setup -- please, only use the Onkyo Controller mobile app in combination with the supplied microphone -- but doing so rewards with a highly involving performance.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,699 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Number of Channels
7Power in Stereo
120 wattsNumber of HDMI Inputs
7HDMI Version
2.1
Learn more
Onkyo TX-RZ50 review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best AV receiver for movies
Yamaha RX-A4A
Pros
Excellent build quality
Booming cinematic sound
Built-in phono preamp
Cons
Doesn't sound great with music streaming
I'm a big fan of the Yamaha RX-V6A, so I was curious to see what the step-up RX-A4A brings to the table. As it turns out, this Yamaha offers even better build quality and a huge, cinematic sound.Look through the fancy top grille and you'll see neatly packed components and a distinguished, stamped transformer. The system is capable of a beefy 110 watts per channel (stereo) and has seven HDMI ports for your connectivity needs.I tested the Yamaha A4A against the Onkyo RZ50 and the older Denon X3700. The Yamaha's sound quality tended toward the cinematic rather than the musical, and it offered a big, roomy sound perfect for blockbusters or conspiracy thriller TV shows. What was surprising is that the onboard phono preamp was even better than the one on the rival Onkyo RZ50, so I can recommend the Yamaha for people who don't want a separate preamp for their turntable.The Yamaha is great as a home theater receiver but doesn't sound as good with music streaming. Still, as the Onkyo offers balanced performance across both, it's my current favorite.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,249 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Number of Channels
7Power in Stereo
110 wattsNumber of HDMI Inputs
7HDMI Version
2.1
Learn more
Yamaha RX-A4A review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best AV receiver for gaming
Sony STR-AN1000
8.2
/10
SCORE
Pros
Plenty of streaming connectivity including Sonos
Excellent sound
8K and 4K/120Hz support
Cons
Slightly higher retail price than competitors
Lower power rating
Poorly designed remote control
If you're a gamer, this receiver will be able to keep up with the latest games and consoles like the Xbox Series X and the PlayStation 5. The Sony STR-AN1000 is a 7.2-channel Dolby Atmos receiver that offers a whole host of new features, including HDMI 2.1 (4K/120Hz) support and Sony's own 360 Reality Audio. It boasts superb connectivity with six HDMI inputs (two with 8K compatibility) and two 8K outputs. The receiver also includes support for video standards such as Dolby Vision, HDR10 and HLG for high-resolution gaming. As far as analog inputs, the Sony offers four, though it does lack a dedicated phono input. The Sony also has one of the most sophisticated setup routines yet, so dialing in great sound is even easier. It offers an upgraded version of its calibration routine, now called Digital Cinema Auto Calibration IX. This involves a new stereo microphone and a natty plastic stand -- where competitors' are cardboard -- and it now accommodates multiple seating positions. If you prefer to do a manual AV receiver calibration, then the system is quite powerful, as it now lets you set the height of the screen and speakers; most receivers do not let you do this. But the main reason to buy it is its outstanding performance, especially for video games.  ... Show more
Get it now
$898 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Number of Channels
7Power in Stereo
100 wattsNumber of HDMI Inputs
6HDMI Version
2.1
Learn more
Sony STR-AN1000 review
Add to compareWhich receiver should you buy?
The Onkyo TX-NR6100 is the best receiver for most needs Ty Pendlebury/CNETIf you're spending under $1,000, there are four main receivers to choose from -- the Sony STR-AN1000, the Yamaha RX-V6A, the Onkyo TX-NR6100 and the Denon AVR-970H. All offer excellent performance, so the short answer about which to buy is whichever is available for the lowest price. At the moment, that is either the Denon or the Onkyo, and I especially recommend the Onkyo TX-NR6100" target="_self for its combination of excellent performance and connectivity. The Onkyo offers easy setup, excellent usability, solid looks and useful features, including the best streaming suite (alongside Sony). As an added plus, the Onkyo was never prone to the 4K issue that plagued early versions of the Yamaha RX-V6A.Meanwhile, the step-up Onkyo TX-RZ50 is an excellent receiver if you're looking for the next level of features and a performance bump over sub-$1,000 models. It offers an excellent, if slightly scary, calibration routine from Dirac Live and the best number of streaming features on the market. It sounds great with music and movies alike.  	Lastly, if it's home theater thrills you're after, the Yamaha RX-A4A offers crisp, dynamic sound and fantastic build quality for $1,300.
Factors to consider when buying an AV receiver
AV receivers are notoriously complex, with reams of features and confusing technical specifications. (For example, what's 4K/120Hz anyway?) Yet, what are the things that really matter when buying a new model? I'm going to sum up the most important ones right here.
HDMI inputsWith most TVs and set-top boxes supporting HDMI, you should buy a receiver that has as many of these HDMI input ports and outputs as possible. Front-mounted HDMI ports are kind of like a human appendix -- unneeded, because most users don't hot-plug HDMI devices -- making the number of rear inputs what's most important. (How else are you going to connect your Roku, Blu-ray player, Nintendo Switch and all your other devices?) The Onkyo TX-NR6100 and Denon AVR-S970H have six rear-mounted HDMI inputs, while the Yamaha RX-V6A goes one better with seven. If you want to connect two different displays -- a TV and a projector, for example -- all but the Yamaha offer a second HDMI output. You should also be sure you have an extra HDMI cable or two on hand -- these things are like the second sock of a pair as you can never find them when you need them.Dolby Atmos capabilityMost receivers in the $500-and-above price range include Dolby Atmos capability and DTS:X, but the effect these formats have on your home theater movie-watching can be subtle, or in most movies, nonexistent. In other words, don't worry about missing out on these formats by not installing a ceiling-pointing speaker or two. Mounting your rear surround speakers high on the wall will get you halfway there in terms of quality, immersive sound.WiFi music streamingMost midrange receivers have onboard Wi-Fi network connectivity for wireless music streaming via your speaker system. There are plenty of standards for wireless streaming services, but the most universal are Spotify Connect, Apple AirPlay and Google Cast. If you're looking to build a multiroom system with a variety of AV systems and speakers with wireless connectivity, these are the three flavors to aim for. Onkyo and Sony are the only devices to support all three. The Denon receiver model lacks wireless streaming via Google but ups the ante to AirPlay 2 and the proprietary HEOS system. Meanwhile, Yamaha has its own MusicCast system. How CNET tests AV receivers
The CNET Audio Lab in downtown Manhattan where I test turntables, soundbars, and AV receivers side-by-side Ty PendleburyAt CNET, I test audio equipment from compact soundbars to surround sound systems, but regardless of the device, my methodology is the same. I always compare products against one or more reference devices that offer the best performance at a similar price.
When it comes to receivers I want to see how well a system performs with music and movies, as most people will want to do both. I watch test scenes from 4K Blu-ray or streamed from a 4K streaming service (Fandango at Home, for example) and evaluate aspects such as Dolby Atmos surround sound performance and dialog clarity. I also use several test music tracks and test streaming features such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi. Systems that can perform well with both types of entertainment inevitably score the highest.
Check out CNET's receiver buying guide for more about the features and things you should consider when looking for a new system.
Other AV receivers I tested
The Denon AVR A10H is a 13.4-channel receiver. Ty Pendlebury/CNETDenon AVR-A10H ($5,199): If you hear the words "home theater" and think "dedicated room with a screen and leather recliners," then the AVR-A10H is the kind of receiver you would use to power it. It has all of the features you need, including Dolby Atmos, music streaming, 4K/120Hz on all seven HDMI inputs and more. While it sounds good -- I tested it powering a set of Klipsch Fortes -- the combination of a high price and 13(!) powered channels may be too much for most living rooms.
Yamaha RX-V6A Ty Pendlebury/CNETYamaha RX-V6A ($599): This Yamaha RX-V6A offers a fresh look at AV receiver design, with its futuristic edges and simple controls, while maximizing sound quality. The Yamaha might even make you forget about visiting a cinema ever again, and it's no slouch with music, either. It offers plenty of connectivity with Wi-Fi bringing AirPlay 2, Spotify Connect, Bluetooth and Yamaha's MusicCast system for streaming from your devices. Notably, the TSR-700 is identical, and it was an exclusive model for some outlets. Find out more in CNET's Yamaha RX-V6A review. Denon AVR-X3800 ($1,699) Denon has a reputation for quality sound and powerful amplification, and the AVR-X3800 will be able to power most systems with ease. In terms of features, the Denon has everything you need in a modern receiver including Dolby Atmos and six 8K HDMI inputs. Based on my head-to-head testing, I found that the Denon was even-handed with movies and music, but not as good as the equivalent Marantz SR6015 with music or as good at home theater as my current pick, the Onkyo RZ50. Read CNET's first take on the Denon AVR-X3800. AV receiver FAQs
What is the difference between a stereo receiver and an AV receiver?
A stereo receiver is an audio-only, two-channel amplifier that includes source switching and an AM/FM tuner -- if it lacks a tuner it's called an integrated amp. Meanwhile, an AV receiver is typically a surround sound system amplifier that enables HDMI switching and playback of audio and video. Most also include tuners onboard as well. An AV receiver is more versatile than a two-channel model because it can be used for both stereo and surround sound. You can add as many speakers to them as you have, starting at just two -- so they're pretty flexible to build out your surround sound system.
Show more
Should I buy an 8K receiver?
Standards change all the time, but the bare minimum right now is support for HDR and Dolby Vision, and at least HDMI version 2.0 or better. All of the models above support not only 4K and HDR video but 8K support as well, even if 8K content is hard to find. Be aware that all 2020 8K-compatible receivers were prone to a bug preventing them from displaying variable refresh rate video, and from the Xbox Series X in particular. Denon, Marantz and Yamaha announced fixes for existing models, while compliant models from Yamaha RX-V6A began shipping in the summer of 2021. Denon and Marantz receivers sold after April 2021 should be 4K/120Hz compatible. Yamaha users can check for 4K compatibility here while Denon and Marantz users should check with their dealer.The TX-NR6100 is the first receiver I tested that I found to both pass 4K/120Hz and which I would also recommend to new buyers.
Show more
How do I connect my TV to my AV receiver?
If you have a relatively new TV you should be able to use a single cable -- an HDMI cable, to be exact -- to connect your receiver to your television. If you have an HDMI port labeled ARC/eARC on the TV you can connect that to the main HDMI ARC output of the receiver. Doing so enables you to hear onboard Netflix from your TV when you set the receiver on the "TV" input, while also enabling video to be transmitted from your other AV sources.If you have an older TV without an ARC-compliant port you will need to connect both an HDMI cable and an optical cable to the back of your TV. However, if you have a CRT or rear-projection TV which has composite or component inputs you will need a $1,000-plus receiver such as the Marantz SR6015 or Onkyo TX-RZ50. Many receivers no longer offer switching for these legacy connections.
Show more
Is 4K/120Hz support a big deal?
The short answer is: Yes, but only if you own an Xbox Series X and a brand-new TV. As I write this, there is a growing number of Xbox Series X games that support this optional mode -- including Halo Infinite and Fortnite, to name a couple -- but the advantages of 4K/120Hz over 60Hz are minimal as far as I've seen at this point. Future games and even video sources may make the differences clearer, and that's why you may want a receiver that's fully compatible.If you do buy an older receiver, you don't care about the Xbox Series X, you can always hook a fancy new console directly to the TV, then use eARC to get audio to the receiver.
Show more
The rear panel of the TX-NR6100 offers six HDMI inputs and two outputs. Ty Pendlebury/CNET
About the Author
Ty Pendlebury Editor Ty Pendlebury Editor
TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
Read full bio
Home Entertainment Guides
TVs
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best TV Deals
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
Streaming & TV Accessories
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
Speakers
Best Bluetooth Speaker
Best Portable Mini Bluetooth Speaker
Best Speakers
Best Wi-Fi Speaker
Best Speakerphone for Working from Home
Best Sonos Speakers
Projectors
Best Home Theater Projector
Best 4k Projector
Best Portable Projector
Best Outdoor Projector
Big TV vs Projector
Other Home Entertainment
Best Record Player
Best Home Theater System
Best Blu-ray Player
Best DVR for Cord Cutters
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.