Trump administration recommends pregnant women limit Tylenol, contradicting medical guidance - ABC News
ABC NewsLiveVideoShowsShopInterest Successfully AddedWe'll notify you here with news aboutTurn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? OffOnLog InStream onTrump administration recommends pregnant women limit Tylenol, contradicting medical guidanceStudies haven't found a direct link between Tylenol use in pregnancy and autism.ByMary Kekatos, Cheyenne Haslett, Sony Salzman, Will McDuffie, and Liz NeporentSeptember 22, 2025, 8:22 PM8:13President Donald Trump alongside Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Medicare and Medicaid Administrator Mehmet Oz speaks about autism at the White House in Washington, Sept. 22, 2025. Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty ImagesThe Trump administration stated on Monday that the use of Tylenol during pregnancy may be linked to an increased risk of autism and that pregnant women should limit their use, contradicting medical evidence.In a press conference at the White House, President Donald Trump, flanked by the nation's top public health officials, said the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will begin notifying physicians immediately that it is "strongly recommending that women limit Tylenol use during pregnancy unless medically necessary.""They are strongly recommending that women limit Tylenol use during pregnancy unless medically necessary," Trump said. "That's, for instance, in cases of extremely high fever."Studies on this question have not shown a direct cause and effect. Some studies point to a possible link, but major medical groups have evaluated the evidence and continue to recommend acetaminophen as the safest painkiller during pregnancy.President Donald Trump alongside Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Medicare and Medicaid Administrator Mehmet Oz speaks about autism at the White House in Washington, Sept. 22, 2025.Saul Loeb/AFP via Getty ImagesTrump and his health officials said that the FDA would update the label for acetaminophen, commonly known as Tylenol, to "reflect potential benefits in reducing some autism symptoms."But Trump went further, directly addressing pregnant women during the press conference, stating, "Don't take Tylenol. There's no downside. Don't take it.""You'll be uncomfortable," he added. "It won't be as easy, maybe. But don't take it if you're pregnant. Don't take Tylenol, and don't give it to the baby after the baby is born."At one point, Trump acknowledged that his remarks were based less on scientific evidence and more on his own life experiences and "common sense.""You know, I'm just making these statements from me," he said. "I'm not making them from these doctors, because when they talk about, you know, different results, different studies, I talk about a lot of common sense. And they have that too. They have that too, a lot."RFK Jr. pledges an answer to the 'autism epidemic' by SeptemberMajor medical groups reacted strongly, expressing concern that pregnant women may be discouraged to use acetaminophen even if they could benefit.In a statement, Dr. Steven Fleischman, president of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), said the medical group continues to recommend acetaminophen as the safest painkiller during pregnancy."Suggestions that acetaminophen use in pregnancy causes autism are not only highly concerning to clinicians but also irresponsible when considering the harmful and confusing message they send to pregnant patients, including those who may need to rely on this beneficial medicine during pregnancy," Fleischman said."Today's announcement by HHS is not backed by the full body of scientific evidence and dangerously simplifies the many and complex causes of neurologic challenges in children. It is highly unsettling that our federal health agencies are willing to make an announcement that will affect the health and well-being of millions of people without the backing of reliable data," the statement continued.RFK Jr. pledges an answer to the 'autism epidemic' by SeptemberOn Monday evening, the FDA released its note to doctors about a possible link between acetaminophen during pregnancy and autism, which was more measured than the president's assertions.The note included language that there has been no evidence that Tylenol causes autism, and the association is an ongoing area of scientific debate."To be clear, while an association between acetaminophen and autism has been described in many studies, a causal relationship has not been established and there are contrary studies in the scientific literature," the note read. "The association is an ongoing area of scientific debate and clinicians should be aware of the issue in their clinical decision-making."In a statement from Kenvue, the maker of Tylenol, on Sunday, the company said it believes research shows that acetaminophen does not cause autism.Popular ReadsTrump admin live updates: Trump and RFK JR make controversial autism announcement2 hours agoTrump admin updates: Trump at Charlie Kirk memorial serviceSep 21, 4:09 PMCharlie Kirk memorial updates: 'I forgive him,' Erika Kirk says of alleged shooterSep 21, 7:22 PM"We strongly disagree with any suggestion otherwise and are deeply concerned with the health risk this poses for expecting mothers," the statement read. "Acetaminophen is the safest pain reliever option for pregnant women as needed throughout their entire pregnancy. Without it, women face dangerous choices: suffer through conditions like fever that are potentially harmful to both mom and baby or use riskier alternatives."Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy Jr. delivers remarks on autism while President Donald Trump listens, at the White House, in Washington, September 22, 2025.Andrew Harnik/Getty ImagesStudies have been mixed on whether acetaminophen is linked to a higher risk of ADHD or autism, but no published study has found that acetaminophen use in pregnancy causes autism. There are also multiple studies that show there is no link between vaccines and autism.An April 2024 study, funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and published in JAMA, found that using acetaminophen during pregnancy was not linked to an increased risk of autism, ADHD or intellectual disability in children.During the press conference, federal officials cited an August 2025 meta-analysis from researchers at Mt. Sinai, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Heath, UCLA Fielding School of Public Health and UMass Lowell that found prenatal exposure to acetaminophen may increase the risk of neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism and ADHD, in children.However, the authors of the meta-analysis said their work does not prove Tylenol taken during pregnancy causes autism, and did not recommend that pregnant patients stop using Tylenol."[A]s the only approved medication for pain and fever reduction during pregnancy, acetaminophen remains an important tool for pregnant patients and their physicians," co-author Dr. Andrea Baccarelli, dean of the faculty and professor of environmental health at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, told ABC News in a statement. "High fever can pose risks to both the mother and the fetus, including neural tube defects and preterm birth."President Donald Trump accompanied by Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Food and Drug Administration Commissioner Dr. Marty Makary, speaks about autism at the White House in Washington, Sept. 22, 2025.Andrew Harnik/Getty ImagesKennedy and others in the administration have been determined to find what is behind what they have referred to as an "autism epidemic."An April report from the CDC found that an estimated one in 31 8-year-olds was diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in 2022. To compare, one in 36 was diagnosed with ASD in 2020, according to the report.This is also a rise from the one in 150 children diagnosed with autism in 2000, CDC data shows.Medical experts have told ABC News they believe this increase is largely due to better awareness, better access to screening and services, and broadening the definition of ASD.Helen Tager-Flusberg, director of the Center for Autism Research Excellence at Boston University and a member of the coalition of vaccine scientists, told ABC News that researchers have been studying autism's many causes for decades and that the best work combines genetic, medical and environmental data.She warned that revealing findings without methods or peer review risks alarming the public and undermining ongoing NIH research efforts.MORE: RFK Jr. has questioned rising autism rates. Here's what experts say he gets wrong about the disorder"None of the gold standard parameters include announcing the findings of a study at a press conference, none include conducting this study without disclosing methods or research questions, but instead turning this into a big surprise," she said.The administration also announced on Monday that it is starting an approval process for a drug called leucovorin, despite limited evidence of benefit.Leucovorin, which is typically used as part of cancer care, has shown early promise in a handful of small studies suggesting it may help the symptoms of some children with autism.Typically, more robust studies would be required for a new FDA approval. Doctors say there could be some promise for this drug, but caution that more research is needed to understand how much -- or even whether -- this drug helps certain children.In the press release, GSK, the maker of the drug, did not mention autism by name but said it is starting a process to expand the approval.During the press conference on Monday, Trump and Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. also suggested the childhood vaccine schedule could contribute to autism, contradicting years of research that has found no link between the two.Sponsored Content by TaboolaPopular ReadsCharlie Kirk leaves behind wife, 2 kids: What to knowSep 22, 10:34 AMTrump admin live updates: Trump and RFK JR make controversial autism announcement2 hours agoTrump admin updates: Trump at Charlie Kirk memorial serviceSep 21, 4:09 PMCharlie Kirk memorial updates: 'I forgive him,' Erika Kirk says of alleged shooterSep 21, 7:22 PMABC News Live24/7 coverage of breaking news and live eventsABC News NetworkPrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementTerms of UseDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationContact Us © 2025 ABC News