Who's Running for NYC Mayor in 2025? - The New York Times
Skip to contentSkip to site indexNew YorkToday’s PaperAdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENT
Who’s Running for Mayor of New York City?
Running
Democrat
Zohran Mamdani
Republican
Curtis Sliwa
Independents
Eric Adams
Andrew Cuomo
Out After Primary
Democrats
Adrienne Adams
Selma Bartholomew
Michael Blake
Brad Lander
Zellnor Myrie
Paperboy Love Prince
Jessica Ramos
Scott Stringer
Whitney Tilson
Dropped Out
Independent
Jim Walden
By Emma G. Fitzsimmons
Updated September 12, 2025
The 2025 New York City mayor’s race has been unusually volatile and will have major consequences for the nation’s largest city. Zohran Mamdani, a state assemblyman and democratic socialist, won a competitive Democratic primary in June, soundly defeating former Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo by nearly 13 percentage points through focusing on making the city more affordable. Mr. Mamdani will face three candidates in the general election, which will be held Nov. 4. Mayor Eric Adams, a registered Democrat, skipped his party’s primary and is running for a second term as an independent. Mr. Adams has record-low approval ratings, but he has argued that he brought down crime. Curtis Sliwa, the founder of the Guardian Angels, a group of volunteer would-be crime fighters, is the Republican nominee. And Mr. Cuomo confirmed in July that he would run on an independent ballot line. The race has focused on several major themes, including affordability, public safety and President Trump’s agenda. Here is an overview of the candidates for mayor.
Running Zohran Mamdani Dem. State assemblyman
Mr. Mamdani is a state assemblyman and democratic socialist who stunned the political establishment with his victory in the Democratic primary. He galvanized voters with an intense focus on affordability, campaigning on populist ideas like free buses, rent freezes for rent-stabilized apartments and city-owned grocery stores. His opponents have raised concerns over his limited experience in government and his criticism of Israel.
Curtis Sliwa Rep. Guardian Angels founder
Mr. Sliwa, who lost the general election to Mr. Adams in 2021, is running for the Republican nomination again.He is a host on the conservative WABC radio station and has led the Guardian Angels, a citizen patrol group, for decades. He has criticized the mayor’s handling of the migrant crisis and opposed the opening of new shelters.
Eric Adams Ind. Incumbent
Mr. Adams ran for mayor in 2021 as a former police officer who vowed to bring down crime, and his message four years later is similar. But he faces many challenges. He was indicted on federal corruption charges that were later dismissed by the Trump administration; his administration has been plagued by investigations and high-profile resignations; his approval rating is at record lows.Mr. Adams says he has improved the city, pointing to his efforts to address public safety, to put trash into bins instead of on curbs and to build new housing. But his relationship with President Trump could hurt him with New Yorkers who oppose the president’s agenda.
Andrew Cuomo Ind. Former governor
Mr. Cuomo was elected to three terms as governor and resigned in 2021 after roughly a dozen women accused him of sexual harassment. He also faced criticism for his handling of nursing home deaths during the pandemic. During the Democratic mayoral primary, he highlighted his record as governor, which included completing major infrastructure projects and raising the minimum wage. He finished second and plans to run in the general election on a third-party line.
Dropped Out Jim Walden Ind. Former federal prosecutor
Mr. Walden, a former federal prosecutor who has handled high-profile cases, ran as an independent. He dropped out of the race in September after failing to gain traction, though he will still appear on the ballot.He had not run for office before and focused on curtailing corruption. He also criticized congestion pricing tolls in Manhattan and city vaccine mandates during the pandemic.
Out After Primary Adrienne Adams Dem. City Council speaker
Ms. Adams, the first Black leader of the City Council, sought to position herself as a principled and scandal-free alternative to Mr. Adams, to whom she is not related, and Mr. Cuomo. She has fought to restore the mayor's budget cuts to libraries and free preschool and worked with him to approve a major housing plan.
Selma Bartholomew Dem. Educator
Dr. Bartholomew is an education consultant.
Michael Blake Dem. Former state assemblyman
Mr. Blake was a White House aide under President Barack Obama and served in the State Assembly representing the Bronx.
Brad Lander Dem. City comptroller
Mr. Lander, the city comptroller, is a progressive leader and a fierce critic of Mr. Adams and Mr. Cuomo. He cross-endorsed Mr. Mamdani in the primary and finished in third place in the Democratic primary.
Zellnor Myrie Dem. State senator
Mr. Myrie is a progressive state senator from Brooklyn who proposed creating free universal after-school programs, hiring 3,000 police officers to improve public safety and building one million new homes.
Paperboy Love Prince Dem. Activist
Paperboy Prince is a content creator and community activist.
Jessica Ramos Dem. State senator
Ms. Ramos, a state senator from Queens who failed to gain traction in the race, endorsed Mr. Cuomo. She had been a sharp critic of Mr. Cuomo, but did not think Mr. Mamdani should be mayor. She built her reputation as a progressive who supported raising the minimum wage.
Scott Stringer Dem. Former city comptroller
Mr. Stringer, the former city comptroller, ran on a message that he was competent and experienced. His 2021 mayoral campaign was derailed by allegations of sexual misconduct, which he has denied.
Whitney Tilson Dem. Former hedge-fund executive
Mr. Tilson is a longtime Democratic donor and former hedge-fund executive who focused his campaign on public safety and antisemitism. During the primary, he criticized Mr. Mamdani and praised Mr. Cuomo.
Design and development by Leo Dominguez and Eden Weingart. Photo production by Jessica White.See more on: Eric Adams,
Andrew Cuomo, Curtis SliwaShare full articleRelated ContentAdvertisementSKIP ADVERTISEMENTSite IndexSite Information Navigation© 2025 The New York Times CompanyNYTCoContact UsAccessibilityWork with usAdvertiseT Brand StudioPrivacy PolicyCookie PolicyTerms of ServiceTerms of SaleSite MapCanadaInternationalHelpSubscriptionsManage Privacy Preferences