4 Longevity Insights: What Ancient Tribes Teach Us About Living Longer - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Health
Forget Paleo — here's what we should really learn from our ancient ancestors about longevity, says a researcher
By
Gabby Landsverk
Humans may have evolved to live longer so we can learn skills to pass on and work together, an anthropologist says.
Kathrin Ziegler/Getty Images
2025-09-20T09:27:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
A researcher who works with hunter-gatherer tribes said their routines can teach us how to live longer.
Preindustrial societies today and in human history have relied on close social bonds to stay healthy.
Habits like lifelong learning, consistent movement, and moderate diets may be key to better longevity.
The idea of living like our ancestors has become something of a wellness craze. Take the Paleo diet, barefoot running, and cold plunges — trends that encourage you to shed the comforts of modern living.
But anthropologist Michael Gurven, a professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, says these fads miss the deeper meaning of how our ancestors survived and thrived.Gurven has spent decades living and working with remote tribal populations to learn how humans evolved to thrive in challenging environments.
He has spent time with indigenous tribes like the Moseten and Tsimane in Bolivia, who follow traditional subsistence lifestyles and have extraordinarily good health, with strikingly low rates of chronic illnesses like heart disease and dementia.Studying their lifestyles not only taught Gurven how our own ancestors might have developed resilience but also how we may be able to implement that knowledge today, he said.Cue his new book, "Seven Decades," which explains why humans evolved to live so long and shares some lessons for modern life.
Their habits don't look like any wellness influencer's routine. Here are four tenets they live by, from social bonds to steady exercise.Humans are built to be socialOne major lesson of living with hunter-gatherer groups is that humans evolved to work together, according to Gurven."Middle-aged and older adults are part of the reason that we're actually fairly successful as a species," he said.
Multiple generations of the Tsimane share the burden of daily tasks like hunting, fishing, preparing food, and caring for children.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
On a recent trip to Bolivia, Gurven said he was struck by how tribe members were socializing almost constantly, and everyone was expected to join in across multiple age groups."It's an inspiration for rethinking the story of older people in our growing population," he said.
Gurven has taken that to heart. While modern society is more segmented, with people confined to their age groups, he finds ways to connect."Even as much as I work, it's rare that I turn down social invitations because in the end nurturing that kind of community and friendships is really what's important," he said.We thrive on learning new things
Professor Michael Gurven has lived and worked with remote hunter-gatherer tribes and said we can learn a lot from them on how to live longer, healthier lives.
Courtesy of Michael Gurven
Some of the longest-living people in the world swear by learning throughout their lives, from a 100-year-old woman who reads the newspapers daily to a 91-year-old grandma who travels the world.
Gurven sees this in tribal communities, too.Tribe elders that he's observed are deeply immersed in cultural traditions and skill sharing, and that engagement and sense of purpose help them maintain vibrant physical and mental health.Our essential activities take decades to master — from survival skills like hunting, farming, cooking, and medicine to cultural skills like art and storytelling. It's part of what makes us human. Meanwhile, our close ancestors, chimpanzees, develop the life skills to be self-sufficient much faster and also age much more quickly.
"The ability to live well into seven decades, that's just very human," Gurven said. "You only get really productive well into adulthood, and it wouldn't really make sense to adopt that strategy if you couldn't be guaranteed to live long enough to reap the gains of all that effort."Healthy eating doesn't need to be complicatedAccording to Gurven's research, the Tsimane have some of the healthiest hearts in the world, in part because of what they eat.They don't follow a low-carb, high-fat Paleo diet. Tsimane staples include rice, corn, starchy sweet potatoes, and plantains, along with fruit, nuts, fish, and wild game.
Don't rush to eat just like that. "I think it's just absurd to think that there's any single optimal diet," Gurven said. Instead, focus on two main lessons from the hunter-gatherer menu: eating fewer empty calories and more whole foods.To paraphrase Michael Pollan, who also wrote about this community, the Tsimane eat real food and not too much, since there isn't a lot extra to go around beyond what they need to fuel daily activities.As for himself, rather than mimicking a hunter-gatherer diet exactly, Gurven said he's cut back on salt, eats more moderate portions without overthinking it, and never drinks soda.
Slow and steady exerciseIt's a myth that the hunter-gatherers of our past were super fit."We tend to have in our minds vigorous hunters chasing down game and doing triathlete-type activities all the time. And that's just not true," Gurven said.However, modern society is more sedentary by comparison, with the average American taking about 5,000 steps per day.
Members of the Tsimane tribe get an average of 17,000 steps per day while foraging for fruit and nuts, harvesting corn and plantains, and hunting and fishing."It's a lot more than I'm getting," Gurven said. "But the big motivation is that it's a lot of light and moderate activity."He opts for walking and hiking outdoors whenever possible, and making it a social activity so it sticks as a habit and doesn't feel like a chore.
"Anything helps in the activity domain. I think in some ways it's encouraging to a lot of Americans who are intimidated by gyms," Gurven said.
Recommended video
Health
Longevity
Diet
More
Nutrition
Exercise
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account