Chai Cinnamon Rolls Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Dirty Chai Cinnamon Rolls Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Breads, Rolls & PastriesRollsSweet Rolls
Chai Cinnamon Rolls
Dirty Chai Cinnamon Rolls Recipe photo by Taste of Home
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 45 min. + rising Bake: 30 min.
By
Val Goodrich
Recipe by Hetal Vasavada, San Francisco, California
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 01, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Lean into cozy fall mornings with a breakfast to match. These chai cinnamon rolls are a latte and a pastry baked into one.
In our chai cinnamon rolls recipe, all the nourishing warmth of a chai latte finds its way into a batch of pillowy cinnamon rolls. Every roll is generously fall-spiced, mixing the quintessential brown sugar and cinnamon filling with aromatic nutmeg, cardamom, ginger and cloves. With chai in the title, the extra spices are expected, but the true surprise lies in the espresso glaze, taking a dirty chai latte approach for a buzzy morning jolt.
Prep these chai latte cinnamon rolls the night before a big holiday or save them for an autumnal weekend baking project. The chai latte filling and espresso glaze can easily be used in our gluten-free cinnamon rolls or vegan cinnamon rolls recipes too!
Ingredients for Chai Cinnamon Rolls
Whole milk: We suggest whole milk for its undeniable richness, but feel free to use 2% or skim milk here instead. Whatever milk you choose, heat it to 110° to 115°F to activate the yeast.
Active dry yeast: Before proofing the yeast, check the package for an expiration date. Expired yeast will not proof, which means your rolls will not rise.
Butter: For our chai cinnamon rolls recipe, you’ll need about one stick of butter. Soften 3 tablespoons of butter for the dough and melt 1/4 cup (half a stick) for the filling.
Sugars: Both granulated and brown sugars sweeten the cinnamon rolls. Save the dark brown sugar for the filling, where it will deepen the sweet flavor into something almost caramelly, pairing beautifully with the spices.
Eggs: Bring the eggs to room temperature so they blend seamlessly into the dough. Do this by taking them out of the fridge 30 minutes before cracking them open. Or, submerge them in warm (not hot!) water for 10 minutes before use.
All-purpose and bread flours: A mix of all-purpose and bread flours gives us the best of both worlds. Bread flour has a higher protein content, meaning the rolls will be elastic, well-structured and pillowy soft, while all-purpose flour gives them a tender bite.
Spices: Our chai latte cinnamon roll filling is made with sweet cinnamon, cozy nutmeg, spicy cardamom, zippy ground ginger and warming cloves. Together, these spices create a nourishing mix that tastes just like a chai tea latte.
Espresso: For the glaze, brew a strong shot of espresso. If you don’t have an espresso machine, you can make a strong brew of coffee in a Moka pot or by using cold brew.
Confectioners’ sugar: For the icing, we’ll need confectioners’ sugar, which is fine and powdery. The powder dissolves without the need for heat, which is perfect for a dessert glaze like our espresso glaze.
Directions
Step 1: Proof the yeast
In a small bowl, dissolve the active dry yeast in the warm whole milk with a pinch of sugar.
Editor’s Tip: A pinch of sugar acts as food for the yeast to help it grow and proof. If the yeast does not proof, discard the mixture and start again, making sure the yeast isn’t expired and the milk is warm enough to activate it.
Step 2: Make the dough
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
In a large bowl, use a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook attachment to combine the softened butter, remaining sugar, salt and the yeast mixture.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Add the eggs, all-purpose flour and bread flour, and beat on medium speed until smooth and slightly tacky.
Editor’s Tip: If you don’t have a dough hook attachment, you can mix and knead by hand. It takes a little more arm muscle and time, but keep at it! The dough is kneaded enough if it springs back when poked.
Step 3: Let it rise
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Place the dough ball in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top. Cover the bowl with a clean kitchen towel. Let the dough rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about one hour.
Step 4: Mix the filling
In a medium-sized bowl, stir together the granulated sugar, brown sugar, cinnamon, cardamom, ginger, cloves, nutmeg and salt until well mixed.
Step 5: Roll out the dough
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough into a 15×12-inch rectangle.
Editor’s Tip: It’s OK if it’s not rolled out perfectly, just try to get the measurement as close as possible.
Step 6: Add the butter and chai filling
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Brush the dough with 2 tablespoons melted butter to within 1/2-inch of the edges.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Sprinkle the chai filling evenly all over the butter. Drizzle the top of the filling with the remaining 2 tablespoons melted butter.
Step 7: Roll up the dough
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Roll up the dough jelly-roll style, starting with a long side. Pinch the seam to seal so the roll doesn’t unwind.
Step 8: Slice into rolls
Using a serrated knife, sharp chef’s knife or bench scraper, cut the log into 12 slices.
Editor’s Tip: For the most even rolls possible, cut the log in half first, then the halves into halves, then the halves into thirds.
Step 9: Proof one last time
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Place the rolls, cut side down, in a greased 13×9-inch baking pan. Cover the rolls with a clean kitchen towel, then let them rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about one hour.
Editor’s Tip: If you’re having trouble finding a warm spot for your rolls to proof, put them in the oven with the light on. Just take them out first when you go to preheat the oven!
Step 10: Bake
Preheat the oven to 350°. Remove the cover from the rolls and bake them until they’re golden brown, 30 to 33 minutes. Let the rolls cool slightly at room temperature for 15 minutes.
Step 11: Finish with the espresso glaze
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
While the rolls cool, whisk together the whole milk, espresso, vanilla extract and confectioners’ sugar until smooth and lump-free.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Drizzle the espresso glaze all over the chai cinnamon rolls. Serve warm and enjoy!
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Recipe Variations
Adjust the spice mixture: A chai tea mix is packed with spices like ground cinnamon, nutmeg, cardamom, ginger and cloves to create its signature warmth. You can add more fall spices, like allspice or white pepper. Or, reduce one or all measurements if it’s too much for your palate.
Include toasted nuts: Anyone who loves texture in their baked goods will appreciate toasted nuts in the chai cinnamon roll filling. Chop pecans, macadamia nuts or hazelnuts, toast the nuts, then stir them into the chai filling just before adding it to the dough.
Swap in frosting for the glaze: The cinnamon roll world is split in two: those who prefer glaze and those who prefer cream cheese frosting. If you’re the latter, doctor up our cream cheese frosting recipe with freshly brewed espresso instead of vanilla extract.
How to Store Chai Cinnamon Rolls
Once the chai cinnamon rolls have cooled to room temperature, wrap the pan in storage wrap or transfer the rolls to an airtight container. They can be kept in the fridge for up to four days. Rewarm in the microwave.
Can you make chai cinnamon rolls ahead of time?
Yes, you can make the chai cinnamon rolls recipe ahead of time. Fully assemble the cinnamon rolls, add them to the greased 13×9-inch pan, then cover the cinnamon rolls with storage wrap and refrigerate overnight. You can also prep the espresso icing ahead of time, storing it in a container in the fridge.
In the morning, take the rolls out of the fridge, remove their covering and let them proof until doubled in size, one to two hours. It may take double the proofing time than directed in the recipe. The rolls have to come to room temperature first, then become warm enough to proof and rise. Once the rolls have doubled in size, bake according to the recipe and finish with the espresso glaze.
Chai Cinnamon Roll Tips
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Why didn’t my chai cinnamon rolls rise?
Your chai cinnamon rolls may not have risen if the yeast was not properly proofed. The yeast is fully activated when it becomes foamy and bubbly. If that doesn’t happen in the first step, start again. Check the expiration date on the yeast’s packaging and make sure that the whole milk is warmed anywhere between 110° to 115° so it can activate the yeast.
What’s the best tool to cut the log into individual rolls?
Anytime I make cinnamon roll recipes, I cut the log into individual rolls using a serrated knife. Using a sawing motion, I find the serrated knife keeps the cinnamon rolls’ circular shape intact better than a chef’s knife or bench scraper.
Can you bake chai cinnamon rolls in a different-sized pan?
Yes, you can bake chai cinnamon rolls in a different-sized pan. Instead of a 13×9-inch pan, proof and bake the cinnamon rolls in a 12-inch cast-iron skillet or two 9-inch round cake pans.
Watch How to Make Dirty Chai Cinnamon Rolls
ⓘ
Dirty Chai Cinnamon Rolls
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:12 servings
Prep:45 min
Cook:30 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1 cup warm whole milk (110° to 115°)
1-1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
3 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs, room temperature
2 to 2-1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1-3/4 cups bread flour
filling:
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1-1/4 teaspoons ground cardamom
1-1/4 teaspoons ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup unsalted butter, melted
espresso icing:
1 tablespoon whole milk
1 tablespoon brewed espresso
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1-3/4 cups confectioners' sugar
Text Ingredients
Directions
In a small bowl, dissolve yeast in warm milk with a pinch of sugar. In a large bowl, combine butter, sugar, salt, and yeast mixture. Add eggs and flours; beat on medium speed until smooth and slightly tacky.
Place in a greased bowl, turning once to grease the top. Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 1 hour.
For the filling, combine the first 8 filling ingredients until well mixed.
On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough out into a 15x12-in. rectangle. Brush with 2 tablespoons melted butter to within 1/2-in. of edges; sprinkle with sugar mixture. Drizzle with remaining 2 tablespoons melted butter. Roll up jelly-roll style, starting with a long side; pinch seam to seal. Cut into 12 slices.
Place in a greased 13x9-in. baking pan, cut side down. Cover with a kitchen towel; let rise in a warm place until doubled, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350°. Bake until golden brown, 30-33 minutes. Let cool slightly for 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, whisk together icing ingredients until smooth. Drizzle on top of buns.
Nutrition Facts
1 piece: 352 calories, 9g fat (5g saturated fat), 51mg cholesterol, 124mg sodium, 62g carbohydrate (30g sugars, 2g fiber), 7g protein.
Author
Val Goodrich
Val channels her experience from the Culinary Institute of America and a number of bakeries into her daily work at Taste of Home. She’s usually typing away at her desk in Philly, but otherwise, you can find her planning her next trip abroad, using her ice cream maker or filling her basket at the farmers market.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
These dirty chai cinnamon rolls have a traditional dough with a chai-spiced filling and a frosting flavored with espresso on top. Each bite is decadent and pillowy, and tastes just like your favorite dirty chai latte! —Hetal Vasavada, San Francisco, California
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box