Picks | CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Picks
Geoff Graham
on
Jul 24, 2025
An ongoing firehose of the latest 10 things we’re reading from around the web that we find interesting. Subscribe to the feed.
September 9, 2025
CrUX Dashboard deprecation
developer.chrome.com
We’re planning on deprecating the CrUX Dashboard after the end of November 2025. CrUX Vis is a newer tool that visualizes historical CrUX data that has many advantages over the older CrUX Dashboard.
September 14, 2025
Old Business Cards
ma.tt
I recently came across a few old business cards I designed back in 1999. The first ones were for my services as a saxophone player: A few notes: I went mostly by “Matthew” then. At some point I decided to remove the home address and say that I was available…
September 12, 2025
Really Simple Licensing
ma.tt
It’s been a busy (and tragic) week but one of the more interesting things to launch was the Really Simple Licensing standard. I have a lot of scars from the web standards wars, so I’m hesitant to dive back in, but this is from a lot of the early Web…
September 12, 2025
Styling siblings with CSS has never been easier. Experimenting with sibling-count and sibling-index
utilitybend.com
I’ve been living a lot in “select land” with my last articles, and even tho I’m still passionate about all things Open UI, I really wanted to get back to some of those newer yummy CSS features. I was building a bunch of demos already, but never had the chance…
September 11, 2025
Preventing jank on focused overflow-causing elements
chriskirknielsen.com
I recently fixed an annoying issue on my Projects page, and I did it with CSS, of course. That page has cards, whose title (and link) are in a child container which slides out of view, at least on larger viewports. A bit of important knowledge first, which is probably…
September 11, 2025
When All You Have Is a Robots.txt Hammer
pxlnv.com
Last year, Robb Knight figured out how Perplexity, an artificial intelligence search engine, was evading instructions not to crawl particular sites. Knight learned that Perplexity’s engine would use an unlisted user agent to scrape summaries of pages on websites where Perplexity was blocked. In my testing, I found the summaries…
September 10, 2025
Choosing the Right Model in Cursor
frontendmasters.com
A number of the big players are coming out with their own AI coding assistants (e.g., OpenAI’s Codex, Anthropic’s Claude Code, and Google Gemini CLI). However, one of the advantages of using a third-party tool like Cursor is that you have the option to choose from a wide selection of…
September 9, 2025
Stumbling upon
thehistoryoftheweb.com
Thanks to everyone for reading, sharing and responding to my post a couple of weeks ago about collective blogging, and shouting into the void. I’ve been floored by the response, and am incredibly grateful to everybody that has reached out to me to share some thoughts. I’d like to round…
September 3, 2025
An intro to manual slot assignment
knowler.dev
Composition may be the killer feature of the Shadow DOM. By “composition” we mean composing an element’s light DOM children within its encapsulated shadow tree using <slot> elements. This reduces the boilerplate required by those using a custom element and it helps reduce its API which makes it more maintainable…
September 8, 2025
Trillion Dollar Elephants
dbushell.com
I was hesitant to post this because the WHATWG & friends war party is strong on the defence! I’d ask for parley but this is going to get spicy so I won’t feign friendship. I want my web career to survive. I want the web to be better.I want to…
Quick Hits
The Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) group has published a working draft of the hugely anticipated WCAG 3.0, and is seeking feedback on it.
#
September 4, 2025
Safari Techology Preview 227 is out and brings a bunch of stuff, from MathML support and field-sizing, to invoker commands, beefier support for anchor positioning, and smaller things like decimal values for initial-letter.
#
September 4, 2025
I know he’d hate this, but HAPPY STINKING BIRTHDAY to Mr. Chris Coyier! Your fingerprints are well preserved on this site and we’re all better for it.
#
August 26, 2025
Really good to see Firefox Nightly join in the URL text fragments fun. Looks like we’ll have broad support super soon!
#
August 18, 2025
More Quick Hits →
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top