Disclaimers | National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
(LockA locked padlock)
or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Menu
Health Information
Health Information
Health Info Lines
MedlinePlus Health Info
Science Education Resources
NIH Clinical Research Trials and You
Your Healthiest Self: Wellness Toolkits
NIH News in Health
Talking With Your Doctor or Health Care Provider
Grants & Funding
Grants & Funding
Grants Home Page
Find Funding
Due Dates
How to Apply
New to NIH
Policy & Compliance
Grants News/Blog
Contracts
Loan Repayment
News & Events
News & Events
News Releases
Media Inquiries
NIH on Social Media
Images and B-roll
Calendar of Events
NIH News Publications
Research & Training
Research & Training
Medical Research Initiatives
Science Highlights
Science Education
Research in NIH Labs & Clinics
Training Opportunities
Library Resources
Research Resources
Clinical Research Resources
Safety, Regulation & Guidance
Lasker Clinical Research Scholars
Institutes at NIH
Institutes at NIH
List of Institutes and Centers
NIH Office of the Director
Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers
NIH Institute and Center Contact Information
About NIH
About NIH
Mission and Goals
Organization
The NIH Director
The NIH Almanac
NIH...Turning Discovery Into Health®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Visitor Information
Get Involved at NIH
Jobs at NIH
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
En Español
Search
Search
Breadcrumb
Home
Disclaimers
Disclaimers
Endorsement Disclaimer — Links to Other Sites
Our Web site has links to many other federal agencies, and in a few cases we link to private organizations. You are subject to that site's privacy policy when you leave our site. We proudly comply with 508 accessibility regulations, but we cannot be responsible for Section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private Web sites.
Reference in this Web site to any specific commercial products, process, service, manufacturer, or company does not constitute its endorsement or recommendation by the U.S. Government or National Institutes of Health (NIH). NIH is not responsible for the contents of any "off-site" Web page referenced from this server.
Endorsement Disclaimer — Pop-Up Advertisements
When visiting our Web site, your Web browser may produce pop-up advertisements. These advertisements were most likely produced by other Web sites you visited or by third party software installed on your computer. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) does not endorse or recommend products or services for which you may view a pop-up advertisement on your computer screen while visiting our site.
Information Disclaimer
The information provided using this Web site is only intended to be general summary information to the public. It is not intended to take the place of either the written law or regulations.
It is not NIH’s intention to provide specific medical advice to users of the NIH Web site, instead we provide users with information to help them better understand their health, diagnosed conditions, and the current approaches related to treatment, prevention, screening, and supportive care. NIH urges users to consult with a qualified health care professional for diagnosis and answers to their personal medical questions.
Press releases and other materials meant for public use will not be posted to the NIH Web site unless they were developed by or for NIH.
Intrusion Detection
This site is maintained by the U.S. Government. It is protected by various provisions of Title 18, U.S. Code. Violations of Title 18 are subject to criminal prosecution in federal court.
For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains available to all users, we employ software programs to monitor traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage. In the event of authorized law enforcement investigations, and pursuant to any required legal process, information from these sources may be used to help identify an individual.
This page last reviewed on January 8, 2025
Footer menu
NIH Home
Contact Us
En Español
Virtual Tour
Visitor Information
FAQs
NIH on Social Media
Press Room
NIH Website Archives
National Institutes of Health
9000 Rockville Pike
Bethesda, Maryland 20892
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health®
Follow Us
www.nih.gov
An official website of the Department of Health and Human Services
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility
Freedom of Information Act
No Fear Act
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Office of Inspector General
Nondiscrimination Notice
Looking for U.S. government information and services?
Visit USA.gov
Subir