Boyd Gaming discloses data breach after suffering a cyberattack
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancements
Tablet meets laptop in this $170 open-box Asus Chromebook deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityBoyd Gaming discloses data breach after suffering a cyberattack
Boyd Gaming discloses data breach after suffering a cyberattack
By Lawrence Abrams
September 23, 2025
06:25 PM
0
US gaming and casino operator Boyd Gaming Corporation disclosed it suffered a breach after threat actors gained access to its systems and stole data, including employee information and data belonging to a limited number of other individuals.
Boyd Gaming is a public US casino entertainment company with 28 gaming properties in ten states, including Nevada, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Ohio, and Pennsylvania, and the management of a tribal casino in northern California. The firm employs over 16,000 people and had an annual revenue of $3.9 billion in 2024.
In a Tuesday evening FORM 8-K filing with the SEC, Boyd Gaming disclosed it recently suffered a cyberattack in which attackers gained access to its systems.
The company states that it worked with external cybersecurity experts to respond to the attack and notified law enforcement.
However, the threat actors were able to steal data from the company's systems, which includes information about employees and individuals.
"The Company has determined that the unauthorized third party removed certain data from the Company's IT systems, including information about employees and a limited number of other individuals," reads the Boyd Gaming 8-K filing.
"The Company is notifying impacted individuals and has or will notify its various regulators and other governmental agencies as required."
Boyd Gaming states that the incident has not affected the company's operations and does not anticipate a material adverse impact on the company's financial condition.
The company says that it has a cybersecurity insurance policy, which is expected to cover costs associated with the incident.
BleepingComputer contacted Boyd Gaming with questions about the attack, but no response was immediately available.
No ransomware gangs or other threat actors have claimed responsibility for the attack.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
The first three things you’ll want during a cyberattackKali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancementsUK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptionsObscura, an obscure new ransomware variantCloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
Boyd Gaming Corporation
Casino
Cyberattack
Cybersecurity
Gaming
Lawrence Abrams
Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT