These amazing mods for Dying Light: The Beast make it better, not easier
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
One week in, these mods are making Dying Light: The Beast so much better
By
Samarveer Singh
Published 3 hours ago
Gaming has been Samarveer’s greatest passion, and the Literature graduate in him takes immense joy in dissecting games for their themes, messages, and impact. Samarveer holds a deep appreciation of gaming, and considers the platform to be the most immersive and impactful across all media. He can be found engaging with gaming communities online, always ready to debate the finer points of ray tracing or itching to write an 8-page collegiate thesis on any game that impacts him emotionally.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
It's been a week since Techland finally gave us Dying Light: The Beast, and after a full decade, Kyle Crane was back. Sure, we had a mainline sequel in 2022, but the devs clearly tried way too many different things, a lot of which didn't resonate with the fanbase. So, turning Dying Light 2's major expansion into a full-fledged game (while still keeping it free for DL2 Deluxe Edition buyers) was the right call, because we got Kyle Crane back, and what a return to form it has been. Dying Light: The Beast has been effectively 'more Dying Light', and I absolutely adored every minute of it with my review copy. Still, there are always a few ways that the community comes together to tweak new games, and within a week, Dying Light: The Beast has over 150 mods on NexusMods. Now, I'm not a fan of exploitative mods, get-rich-quick, or god-mode mods, but there are a few that are simply QoL mods that have made the overall game experience remarkably better without changing anything about the core experience, and that's the kind of mods that really hit the sweet spot.
4
A fast launch mod stacks up significantly over time
Being in Castor Woods just fifteen seconds after booting the game is always rewarding
This one is rather self-explanatory. The Skip Intro Videos mod by 'sekurovich' on NexusMods simply eliminates all the initial title cards and videos when you initialize the game. Effectively, this saves you about 10–15 seconds of time on every single boot of the game, which clearly stacks up over the days. More importantly, however, the feeling of being inside the game just 10 or 15 seconds (depending on your hardware) after you launch the title is definitely rewarding. Now, the first game, now a decade old, is still one where I could never skip the intro videos, especially the game's introduction where the stakes are set. I've played the damned game seven times over and then some, and yet, the lady going "the eyes of the world have been glued to the city of Harran" are still some of the greatest opening words of any game ever, right next to "Good morning Night City!"
3
The Beast gets gore right, but this mod makes it bloodier
It's a Dying Light game. Who would say no to more blood?
One of the biggest problems with Dying Light 2 at launch was how the gore system and blood effects seemed to have taken a step back from the original game. After all, I distinctly remember having made my mom almost puke when I sliced zombies left and right, splitting them apart in one slash while playing the first game on my PlayStation 4. Dying Light: The Beast has made sure that the gore is absolutely on point this time around. The game features a remarkable amount of bloody animations and ways to tear up Infected with all sorts of weapons, but since it's a Dying Light game, why would anyone say no to more blood? User VAXIStaa on NexusMods has created the Gore Mod for Dying Light: The Beast, which increases the decal sizes for blood spatter on your screen, the time it takes for bloodied, dismembered limbs and zombie corpses to disappear from the ground, and the LOD. In fact, you even get to pick how much blood spatter you want on your own screen when you slice zombies up close, as well as how bloody you want this mod to make your game. It doesn't change a single thing about the game's mechanics, but it still makes things bloodier, which only helps to improve immersion in this zombie-infested world. This one is definitely a must-have, in my opinion.
2
The 'Don't Grab Me' mod fixes a huge problem with the game
The community at large has complained about zombies being too handsy
Now, Dying Light is all about taking to the rooftops and parkouring in first-person to avoid hordes of zombies on street-level, but if you've played the game for anything more than an hour, you'll know that there are always a handful of zombies on rooftops as well, just waiting for you to dropkick them, '09 Randy Orton style. Even on the streets, it's a ton of fun to vault over the shambling Infected, weaving and dodging your way through hordes if you sometimes have no option but to stay on the ground. However, there's a bit of a problem with that aspect in The Beast — the game has made zombies way too handsy. Sure, some zombies grabbing you if you get too close makes sense (this is a zombie game, after all), but for every single walking Infected to be able to magnetically attach to you the moment you get in their vicinity? That gets a little much, especially since you have no choice but to lose a significant chunk of your health to each grapple. The 'Don't Grab Me' mod from VAXIStaa, the same user who made the enhanced Gore Mod, fixes that problem. It even allows you to pick whether you want to be nearly un-grabbable, as if you were coated in butter while playing the game, or if you're okay with a middle ground where some zombies succeed in getting their hands on you.
1
The flashlight is the only tool you trust once night falls
Dying Light: The Beast nails nighttime, but a stronger flashlight certainly helps
It's called Dying Light because once the sun sets, there aren't a lot of things saving you from certain demise. The zombies get stronger, you can't see anything, and the parkour gets tougher because of it. The only thing you can trust? Your flashlight which shines and shows you the way forward. In The Beast, the nights make the game a genuine horror show, and you can't see anything except maybe three feet ahead of you through your flashlight. Since it's so deathly pitch-black, there's no doubt that the flashlight should have been stronger. Sure, that might be fixed as soon as Techland drops the ray-tracing update that fixes the torch, but in the meantime, the 'DLTB Brighter Flashlight' mod really makes things easier for those of us who are terrified of the night, and yet can't resist going out once the sun sets. With more throw and area of effect, the improved flashlight mod does make the light from your torch stronger, but at the same time, more noticeable to Volatiles and other zombies hunting you, making the risk-reward system the same, even after the mod.
10/10
Dying Light: The Beast
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
RPG
Action
Horror
Systems
Released
September 19, 2025
ESRB
M For Mature 17+ // Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, Language, Use of Drugs
Developer(s)
Techland
Publisher(s)
Techland
Multiplayer
Online Co-Op
Franchise
Dying Light
PC Release Date
September 19, 2025
Xbox Series X|S Release Date
September 19, 2025
PS5 Release Date
September 19, 2025
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Dying Light: The Beast brings back Kyle Crane, the protagonist from the original Dying Light. Set in the post-apocalyptic Castor Woods, Kyle escapes captivity after 13 years of enduring experiments, hell-bent on revenge. You'll get to use your beast powers, help the people of Castor Woods, and wreak havoc in an open-world filled with horrors of the night.
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
The plethora of mods is a great sign of community engagement
Dying Light: The Beast is a game built to last.
The best thing about Dying Light: The Beast is how we know with certainty that it's a game built to last. Since it moved from DLC status to a standalone title, it only means that when Techland will support it for years to come, we'll only get more new mechanics and, of course, more Crane. In the meantime, the community's rapid response with so many mods shows how much players are still invested in Techland's world, and when things go from just being developer-driven to also including what players add on top of it through their own experience, the feeling of shared community is unparalleled.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Flame6
Flame6
Flame6
#OJ833797
Member since 2025-06-02
0
Threads
42
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
I need to make a mood that removes the hold to interact.Such an awful console tend that shouldn't come over to pc
2025-09-25 19:19:11
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
4 days ago
RDMA is one of the fastest ways to share files from your NAS, these are 6 reasons why you don't need it
3 days ago
6 reasons why most users should undervolt instead of overclock
3 days ago
I'm staying cautious about game-key cards despite Star Wars Outlaws releasing on Nintendo Switch 2
More from our brands
What Time Dying Light: The Beast Goes Live In Your Region
Dying Light: The Beast - Where To Find The Secret Last Hand Of Glova Weapon
Dying Light: The Beast: Full Guide & Walkthrough
Dying Light: The Beast - How To Get Kyle's Legacy Outfit And Apex Car Skin
Hands-On: Dying Light: The Beast Drags Players Screaming Into A Zombie-Filled Wilderness
Why There Will Never Be a Better Time to Play Dying Light
Dying Light The Beast All Legendary Weapons & Where To Find Them
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
4 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 ‘just-enough’ open-source apps I’m using to finally escape the Google ecosystem
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 puts a 4.6 GHz processor in your pocket
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.