Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityUnofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
By Bill Toulas
September 25, 2025
04:23 PM
0
A npm package copying the official ‘postmark-mcp’ project on GitHub turned bad with the latest update that added a single line of code to exfiltrate all its users' email communication.
Published by a legitimate-looking developer, the malicious package was a perfect replica of the authentic one in terms of code and description, appearing as an official port on npm for 15 iterations.
Model Context Protocol (MCP) is an open standard that allows AI assistants to interface with external tools, APIs, and databases in a structured, predefined, and secure manner.
Postmark is an email delivery platform, and Postmark MCP is the MCP server that exposes Postmark’s functionality to AI assistants, letting them send emails on behalf of the user or app.
As discovered by Koi Security researchers, the malicious package on npm was clean in all versions through1.0.15, but in the 1.0.16 release, it added a line that forwarded all user emails to an external address at giftshop[.]club linked to the same developer.
Dev added their email address to receive copies of users' communicationSource: Koi Security
This extremely risky functionality may have exposed personal sensitive communications, password reset requests, two-factor authentication codes, financial information, and even customer details.
The malicious version on npm was available for a week and recorded around 1,500 downloads. By Koi Security's estimations, the fake package might have exfiltrated thousands of emails from unsuspecting users.
For those who downloaded postmark-mcp from npm, it is recommended to remove it immediately and rotate any potentially exposed credentials. Also, audit all MCP servers in use and monitor them for suspicious activity.
BleepingComputer has contacted the npm package publisher to ask about Koi Security’s findings, but we received no reply. The following day, the developer removed the malicious package from npm.
The impersonator package on npmSource: Koi Security
Koi Security’s report highlights a broken security model where servers are implemented in critical environments without oversight or sandboxing, and AI assistants executing malicious commands without filtering for malicious behavior.
Because MCPs run with very high privileges, any vulnerability or misconfiguration carries a significant risk.
Users should verify the source of the project and make sure it's an official repository, review the source code and changelogs, and look carefully for changes in every update.
Before using a new version in production, run MCP servers in isolated containers or sandboxes and monitor their behavior for suspicious actions like data exfiltration or unauthorized communication.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCsMicrosoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in OctoberOpenAI's $4 GPT Go plan may expand to more regionsChatGPT now gives you greater control over GPT-5 Thinking model
AI
Artificial Intelligence
Data Theft
Email
MCP
npm
Postmark
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT