Careers at PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Careers at PLOS
Join us as we drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice
At PLOS, you’ll find a passionate group of pioneers who believe we can make a difference.All of our work is made possible by our internal teams who ensure we have the infrastructure, processes and alignment to achieve our ambitious goals while delivering a superior service to the researchers who contribute to our journals. Many of our staff also work directly with researchers, institutions, advocacy organizations, and other thought leaders to drive change.Each member of our team plays an integral role in transforming scholarly publishing from the inside out. Join us to make an impact.
View open positions
Our values
Transparent
We are open and transparent. The open science principles we fight for are the principles we live by. We share what we know and come to the table with an open mind.
Inclusive
We will stand up and challenge inequity. A passion for inclusion and diversity in research is our driving force. We work tirelessly to make sure scholarly communication is equitable and fair.
Pioneering
We are willing to experiment and take risks to meet our mission. A pioneering spirit is embodied by a passionate group of people who genuinely believe we can make a difference.
Collaborative
We are collaborative and meet people where they are. To advocate for the common good, we need to engage with stakeholders who don’t share our aims.
We're committed to equal opportunity
We’re working to create a more equitable system of scientific knowledge and understanding. Removing barriers to inclusion and facilitating broad participation of voices is core to our success, inside and out.Beyond accepting distinct perspectives, we seek and support divergent backgrounds among our staff because we know differences strengthen our teams, our work, and our communities. We strongly encourage applicants of all identities to join us as we work towards a future where science is open to all, for all.
View our employee privacy notice
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top