The Rare Trait Behind Taylor Swift's Billion-Dollar Business Success | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Growing a Business
This Taylor Swift Trait Drives Billion-Dollar Success, Former Harvard Business Strategist Says
Sinéad O'Sullivan breaks down how the superstar businesswoman propelled herself to the top.
By
Amanda Breen
Edited by
Jessica Thomas
Sep 18, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
O'Sullivan says that Swift is "antifragile" and thus primed to thrive where competitors falter.
Successful business leaders of the future will build antifragile organizations that can weather any storm, according to O'Sullivan.
If you've had internet access since 2005, you're familiar with Taylor Swift.Image Credit: Gilbert Flores | Getty Images
The superstar musician is the most-streamed artist in the world. She is the first to win album of the year at the Grammy Awards four times. Her Eras Tour generated more than $2 billion in ticket sales. And she has a net worth of $1.6 billion.Related: Don't 'Shake Off' These 5 Business, Brand and Legal Lessons From Taylor SwiftSwift also possesses a rare trait that's helped her get there, according to former strategist at Harvard Business School Sinéad O'Sullivan.In her new book, Good Ideas and Power Moves: Ten Lessons for Success From Taylor Swift, O'Sullivan claims that Taylor Swift has reached the pinnacle of the music industry by being "antifragile.""In an increasingly complex and seemingly random world, some systems perform better in chaos than others."The concept of "antifragility" relates to a field of physics called chaos theory. Lebanese American scholar of math and financial markets Nassim Taleb coined the term after noticing a peculiar event unfolding in systems and organizations across a wide range of fields, from biology to urban development, healthcare and more.
"What he saw was that in an increasingly complex and seemingly random world, some systems perform better in chaos than others," O'Sullivan writes.Essentially, antifragility flouts the human desire for stability and instinct to fear what's different or unstable."The idea of antifragility goes far beyond saying that uncertainty doesn't have to be bad," O'Sullivan explains. "It actually says that uncertainty is good. Antifragility isn't just about surviving chaos; it's about flourishing in it. It's about flipping the script and turning adversity into opportunity, uncertainty into innovation and chaos into creativity."Related: Embracing Antifragility — How to Leverage Uncertainty, Volatility and Stress for Unprecedented Growth and Innovation
The immune system and winemaking serve as real-life examples of antifragility at work, O'Sullivan notes. A strong immune system has been exposed to pathogens and can better ward off future threats. Great wine often comes from vines under stress because they grow smaller grapes with more concentrated flavor."Amazon's business actually gets stronger because the volatility wipes out its competitors."The pandemic helped reveal which companies were antifragile, too — those that didn't have to wait for share prices to recover because they'd never really fallen in the first place, according to O'Sullivan. Amazon, the Jeff Bezos-founded ecommerce giant that boasts a $2.5 trillion market capitalization, was among them. As many major retailers struggled to stock their shelves, Amazon maintained total control over its supply chain and saw its online business soar.
"At Amazon, there is no single point of failure that would prevent toilet paper from being passed from millions of available sellers to millions of eagerly awaiting buyers," O'Sullivan says. "Amazon's business actually gets stronger because the volatility wipes out its competitors."Likewise, Swift has demonstrated remarkable antifragility while building her business over the years. O'Sullivan cites four career moments when Swift took a "destructive" path that weakened the competition and strengthened her brand:1. In 2014, Swift withdrew her music from Spotify, the fastest-growing music streaming platform at that time, because she believed its compensation model for artists devalued their work.Why wasn't the move "fatal," as many industry experts assumed it would be? The "friendship first" and "music later" relationship she has with her fans plays an important role, according to O'Sullivan.
"Taylor Swift can be compared to a Rolex watch, not a Swatch," O'Sullivan writes. "The harder it is for people to access her music, the more they crave her and are willing to follow her. By withdrawing her music, Taylor Swift became what is known as a 'Veblen' or a 'luxury' good."When Swift left Spotify, her music was in the playlists of more than 19 million users; the week she returned in 2017, she hit nearly 48 million streams.Related: 3 Lessons for Entrepreneurs From Spotify, Which Won Over Taylor Swift and Just Made its Billion-Dollar IPO2. Swift isn't afraid to "beef" with other musicians and celebrities — like Kanye West after he told her on stage at the 2009 MTV Music Video Awards that "Beyonce had the best video of all time."
"The more Kanye West beat down Taylor Swift, the stronger her fan base rallied around her, leading to extravagantly higher levels of emotional connection between Taylor and her fans within the Swiftverse," O'Sullivan says.O'Sullivan adds that "at least from the outside, Taylor never starts the fights," which also tends to fit within three main growth-fueling "vibes": "powerful men taking advantage of less powerful women," "women who are bitchy and unkind" and "being on the right side of history."Related: 7 Business Feuds With More Beef Than Kanye vs. Taylor3. During the pandemic, Swift released not one but two surprise albums despite marketing limitations amid lockdowns and industry precedents.
"When everybody else was fumbling to get a handle on their life, how was Taylor Swift able to Amazon herself?" O'Sullivan writes. "Well, most of it comes down to the fact that, like Amazon, she has spent her entire career creating, buying and owning her own 'value chain,' or the different parts of the music industry that she needs to engage with to release music."The Swiftverse is "one hell of a strategic asset," O'Sullivan notes — and kept her able to deliver core products into the market.Related: 'Historically Unprecedented Demand': Taylor Swift Fans Caused Ticketmaster's Site To Crash Over 5000 Times4. Finally, Swift rerecorded her albums after Big Machine Label Group was sold to Scooter Braun's Ithaca Holdings.
Some industry leaders considered the lengthy and expensive move one that "would suck the oxygen out of her career" — but because Swift is antifragile, the opposite proved true, O'Sullivan says."As Taylor and Amazon both show us, [during a crisis] is exactly when their stock is going to rise," O'Sullivan writes. "Investors who pay hundreds of millions of dollars to try to own what they think is Taylor Swift's 'core product' (music) simply don't understand her empire as well as she understands it."Related: Taylor Swift Just Made a Surprise Announcement, Revealing the Marketing Genius Behind Her $1.5 Billion FortuneGoing forward, business and strategy leaders who successfully lead through chaos will all be building antifragile organizations — Swift just happens to be ahead of the game, O'Sullivan says.
What's more, as beneficial as antifragility is, O'Sullivan acknowledges that adopting it isn't easy. It requires embracing uncertainty and volatility, building resilience and accepting "weird and bad things."O'Sullivan's Good Ideas and Power Moves offers other takeaways from Swift's career that entrepreneurs and business leaders might find applicable to their own, including how to be a unicorn, have a strategy and stick to it, build a world instead of products, negotiate with authenticity and more.
If you've had internet access since 2005, you're familiar with Taylor Swift.Image Credit: Gilbert Flores | Getty Images
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Amanda Breen
Entrepreneur Staff
Senior Features Writer
Amanda Breen is a senior features writer at Entrepreneur.com. She is a graduate of Barnard College and received an MFA in writing at Columbia University, where she was a news fellow for the School of the Arts.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Growing a Business
Why Do Some People Succeed Instantly While Others Take Years? These 3 Things Explain It
We all love to hear the stories of people who started a business and became an overnight success, but the reality is very different for most.
By
Cynthia Kay
Business News
A Data Breach Reportedly Affecting 18 Million Customers Hits Jeep, Chrysler, and Dodge Parent Company
The automaker Stellantis announced on Sunday that it had uncovered "unauthorized access" to a third-party service platform in North America.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business News
A 27-Year-Old Toy Company Is Growing Faster Than Microsoft: 'Really Emotional, Memorable Experience'
And no, it's not Labubu. Here's why Build-A-Bear Workshop's stock has grown by more than 2,000% over the past five years.
By
Sherin Shibu
Social Media
How To Start a Youtube Channel: Step-by-Step Guide
YouTube can be a valuable way to grow your audience. If you're ready to create content, read more about starting a business YouTube Channel.
By
Jason R. Rich
Business News
A Major Airline Is Furloughing One-Third of Its Flight Attendants
Spirit Airlines is placing 1,800 flight attendants on furlough.
By
Erin Davis
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC