Joe Rogan Warns the Right Not to Celebrate Jimmy Kimmel's Suspension - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
Joe Rogan says conservatives were 'crazy' to support Jimmy Kimmel's suspension: 'This will be used on you'
By
Brent D. Griffiths
Joe Rogan questioned how President Donald Trump has enough time "to be tweeting" about talk show hosts.
Geoff Stellfox/Getty Images
2025-09-23T20:02:31Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Joe Rogan isn't a fan of those who gloated about Jimmy Kimmel's suspension.
"You are crazy for supporting this because this will be used on you," Rogan said.
Despite endorsing Donald Trump in 2024, Rogan has at times been critical of the president.
Joe Rogan has had enough of the right celebrating Jimmy Kimmel's suspension.
"I definitely don't think that the government should be involved ever in dictating what a comedian can or cannot say in a monologue," Rogan said during an episode of his influential podcast that was posted on Tuesday.Rogan's statement mirrored what Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas, a Republican and Trump ally, said last week: Conservatives will come to regret setting a precedent where the federal government can bully media companies into censorship.
"The problem is the companies, if they're being pressured by the government, so if that's real and if people on the right are like, 'Yeah, go get 'em.' Oh my God, you are crazy," Rogan said. "You are crazy for supporting this because this will be used on you."Rogan endorsed Trump on the eve of the 2024 election, welcoming the then-former president on his show despite repeatedly saying he would never do so. While Rogan has emphasized he is "not a Republican," he has often expressed similar views to the GOP base, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic.Rogan's podcast appeared to have been recorded before Disney announced on Monday that Kimmel and his late-night show would return Tuesday evening. Last week, ABC said it was suspending "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" after the host's comments on the killing of Charlie Kirk.
A comedian himself, Rogan said part of Kimmel's final monologue before his suspension was hilarious, even if the framing around the shooting suspect's ideology was inaccurate. "We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them," Kimmel said during the September 15 show, before cutting to a clip of Trump discussing the construction of the new ballroom at the White House after a reporter asked him about Kirk."I think what he was trying to do was just set up a joke. He was trying to knock on the MAGA people, but also set up a joke, which was good," Rogan said. 'It was very funny."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Before ABC's suspension, Nexstar Media Group and Sinclair Broadcasting Company, which combined own roughly 25% of all local ABC stations, announced that they would not air Kimmel's show on their stations. Both groups have said that they will continue not to air Kimmel's show.
FCC Chairman Brendan Carr, a Trump appointee, had pressured local broadcasters to take action after Kimmel's comments angered some conservatives. In his comments, Carr threatened broadcasters' licenses, which the FCC holds jurisdiction over, and which are the lifeblood of local stations. While ABC does not have a license itself, Disney does own a small number of stations in some of the nation's biggest markets.Trump, who has yet to comment on Kimmel's return, was among those who celebrated ABC's suspension. The president also called for NBC to fire its two late-night hosts."Kimmel has ZERO talent, and worse ratings than even Colbert, if that's possible. That leaves Jimmy and Seth, two total losers, on Fake News NBC," Trump wrote on Truth Social while on a state visit to the United Kingdom. "Their ratings are also horrible. Do it NBC!!! "
Rogan said it was odd that the President of the United States would comment on such news."How do you have time while you're running the world to be tweeting that you don't like talk show hosts?" he said. "That is so crazy, crazy."Correction: September 23 — This story has been updated to correct a quote attributed to Rogan about Kimmel's monologue. He said, "I think what he was trying to do was just set up a joke. He was trying to knock on the MAGA people, but also set up a joke, which was good. It was very funny."
Recommended video
Donald Trump
Disney
ABC
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account