Latest space news, headlines, analysis - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Entertainment
Crime
Sports
Watch CBS News
Space
Space
NASA introduces newest astronaut recruits
NASA on Monday introduced its 10 newest astronaut candidates. They represent America's future in space, wherever in the cosmos that leads. Mark Strassmann has more.
1H ago
01:42
NASA introduces 10 new astronaut candidates
The new selection of NASA astronauts will spend two years in training before becoming eligible for flight assignments.
updated 34M ago
Northrop Grumman cargo ship reaches space station after software fix
The capture by the International Space Station's robot arm came a day late because of an unexpected, but now resolved, software issue.
Sep 18
Musk, Bezos' competition for space dominance
Today's quest for dominance in outer space looks quite different from the first space race between the U.S. and Russia in the 1950s. The new book "Rocket Dreams" looks into the new era, including the trillion-dollar competition between Elon Musk's SpaceX and Jeff Bezos' Blue Origin. Author Christian Davenport joins "The Takeout" to discuss.
Sep 17
03:57
Cygnus cargo ship set to rendezvous with space station after delay
This comes after two planned engine firings shut down prematurely, NASA said, putting the Cygnus cargo ship's approach to the space station on hold.
Sep 17
NASA says solar activity is increasing: "The sun is slowly waking up"
The sun has become more and more active over the last 16 years, in a turn that surprised scientists and could affect space weather, NASA said.
Sep 16
Northrop Grumman cargo ship heads for space station
The upgraded Cygnus spacecraft is carrying more than 5 tons of equipment and supplies, including holiday food for the lab's crew.
Sep 14
Mars rocks may hold signs of ancient life
NASA's Mars rover Perseverance has uncovered rocks in a dry river channel that may hold potential signs of ancient microscopic life, according to scientists. Mark Strassmann reports.
Sep 10
01:20
Reaction to shocking UFO video
New video shows a U.S. missile bouncing off a UFO off the coast of Yemen last year. CBS News' Charlie D'Agata breaks it down.
Sep 10
02:27
Mars rover uncovers strongest hints yet of potential signs of ancient life
NASA's Mars rover Perseverance has uncovered rocks in a dry river channel that may hold potential signs of ancient microscopic life.
Sep 10
NASA scientists probe Earth-like planet for atmosphere, water
Exoplanet TRAPPIST-1 e may contain an atmosphere and liquid water, NASA scientists said. Research into the exoplanet is ongoing.
Sep 9
Blood moon rises during total lunar eclipse. See the photos.
A blood moon rose in the night sky this week, offering a dazzling celestial event for people across multiple continents.
Sep 8
Tail of interstellar comet is growing, new telescope image shows
Astronomers in Chile captured a new image of comet 3I/ATLAS on its journey across the inner solar system.
Sep 5
SpaceX successfully launches Starship
SpaceX successfully launched its Super Heavy-Starship on its 10th test flight. CBS News' Bill Harwood has more details.
Aug 27
03:17
SpaceX Super Heavy-Starship launches 10th test
SpaceX launched its Super Heavy-Starship from Texas on Tuesday for the rocket's tenth test flight. The previous three launches ended in catastrophic in-flight failures. CBS News space consultant Bill Harwood has more.
Aug 26
03:43
Show More
As Trump makes autism announcement, Tylenol maker and medical experts push back
The Trump administration announced it believes acetaminophen is linked to autism risk, but the maker of Tylenol and medical experts have strongly pushed back on the claims.
updated 41M ago
"Jimmy Kimmel Live!" will return to air Tuesday, Disney says
"Jimmy Kimmel Live!" had been pre-empted on Wednesday following comments Kimmel made on the show in response to the shooting death of conservative activist Charlie Kirk.
updated 42M ago
Trump to meet with Schumer and Jeffries as government shutdown looms
Democrats have pleaded with Republicans to negotiate before government funding expires at the end of the month.
1H ago
Trump executive order labels antifa a "domestic terrorist organization"
President Trump is following through on his vow to designate antifa as a terrorist group — but the move's legal impact is unclear.
updated 35M ago
Supreme Court lets Trump fire FTC commissioner for now and takes up dispute over removal
President Trump moved to fire Rebecca Kelly Slaughter from her position as a member of the Federal Trade Commission in March.
4H ago
Sarah Ferguson dropped by U.K. charities over reported Epstein email
Newspapers in the U.K. published an email that Prince Andrew's ex-wife Sarah Ferguson reportedly wrote to the late convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.
6H ago
4 soldiers killed in Black Hawk helicopter crash identified by Army
Andrew Cully, Andrew Kraus, Donavon Scott and Jadalyn Good were part an elite team that does nighttime missions.
8H ago
Man accused of trying to assassinate Trump in Florida rests his case without testifying
A man accused of trying to assassinate Donald Trump at his Florida golf course last year has chosen not to testify in his own defense.
4H ago
The night Jeffrey Epstein claimed his cellmate tried to kill him
New internal documents reveal details of an incident that left Jeffrey Epstein injured and on suicide watch days before his death.
13H ago
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue