How Walmart's Chief People Officer Uses AI Like ChatGPT and Perplexity - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
Walmart's chief people officer uses AI to do everything from identifying job candidates to sourcing art
By
Ana Altchek
Donna Morris shared how she uses AI in both her personal and professional life.
Walmart
2025-09-17T09:59:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Walmart's chief people officer, Donna Morris, said she has used AI to identify candidates.
She said there's a "speed and ease" to using AI tools like ChatGPT and Perplexity.
Morris also highlighted AI's broader uses in her personal life, from dining ideas to medical queries.
AI is often associated with certain aspects of hiring, like reviewing résumés. But Walmart's chief people officer, Donna Morris, has used it for another part of the process: identifying potential candidates.
Morris often interviews leaders looking to join Walmart or transition within the company, such as tech and HR executives. She said she has used AI tools like Perplexity and ChatGPT to ask very specific queries about who might have the right background for a particular role when she's "kicking off" a key search."You'll be surprised at how close the actual sources that they come up with align with people who we've actually considered," Morris said.
How Walmart uses AI in hiringA Walmart spokesperson told Business Insider that Morris's example isn't part of a broader companywide approach to source candidates, or a practice that Morris uses in all of her searches. Morris, who oversees the largest private workforce in the US, found it useful in an instance where she had a specific leadership role to fill.The executive said AI tools are a great way to find insights on people in general. While she's a "big LinkedIn fan," she said there's an "ease and speed" to using tools like ChatGPT and Perplexity.The executive's comments come as Walmart has made large investments in AI, including in tools to help its associates improve. In June, the company announced an AI Interview Coach pilot. The tool simulates a Walmart interview by asking candidates up to 10 questions and providing them with scores along with feedback on areas like clarity and structure, the company said.
Earlier this month, the retail giant also announced plans to launch a tailored version of OpenAI's Certification Program through Walmart Academy. OpenAI recently said it would start to offer certifications for varying levels of "AI fluency," with plans to certify 10 million Americans by 2030.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
AI in daily lifeMorris also uses AI in her everyday life, she told Business Insider. She said it's a great source for finding recommendations for restaurants or places to go. She's also used it for design inspiration. She said she was recently at a restaurant with an art piece on the wall that she liked, so she used AI to figure out where to find a similar picture.She also said she was recently FaceTiming her father, who had some spots on his skin. By doing a quick search with AI, she was able to find out that it was actually bruising due to a recent medication change. While she could have used WebMD or another website, she said AI provides the ability to get data quickly.
Morris said she started her career when people still had to go to a library to conduct research."Now, the access to information is phenomenal," Morris said. "I think it's a real advantage for our current generation and generations ahead in terms of your ability to get knowledge and insights."
Recommended video
Walmart
AI
Careers
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account