UK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptions
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityUK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptions
UK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptions
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 24, 2025
09:55 AM
0
The UK's National Crime Agency has arrested a suspect linked to a ransomware attack that is causing widespread disruptions across European airports.
The NCA stated that the arrest was made following an investigation into the cyberattack that impacted Collins Aerospace's Multi-User System Environment (MUSE) passenger processing software.
"NCA officers, supported by the South East ROCU, arrested a man in his forties in West Sussex yesterday evening on suspicion of Computer Misuse Act offences," the law enforcement agency said in a Wednesday press release.
"Although this arrest is a positive step, the investigation into this incident is in its early stages and remains ongoing," Paul Foster, head of the NCA's National Cyber Crime Unit, added.
While the investigation is ongoing, the suspect has since been released on conditional bail, according to an NCA statement.
RTX Corporation (formerly Raytheon Technologies), the owner of Collins Aerospace, which employs over 186,000 people worldwide and has reported revenues of over $80 billion last year, has confirmed that a MUSE ransomware attack is causing disruptions at European airports.
"This software enables multiple airlines to share check-in and gate resources at airports, including baggage handling. The MUSE airport systems operate outside of the RTX enterprise network, residing on customer-specific networks," RTX said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on Wednesday.
The ransomware attack was detected on Friday, September 19, when the first reports of flight delays emerged, and has caused a wave of flight cancellations and delays.
The list of airports experiencing technical difficulties includes Heathrow in London, Brussels Airport, Cork and Dublin airports in Ireland, Berlin Brandenburg Airport, and many others.
"Upon detecting the incident, the Company activated its incident response plan and promptly took steps to assess, contain, respond to and remediate the incident. The Company is diligently investigating the incident with the assistance of internal and external cybersecurity experts and has notified domestic and international law enforcement authorities and certain other government agencies," RTX added.
"The Company is also communicating with its customers and other stakeholders and providing technical support and guidance to affected airlines and airports. Our customers have shifted to back-up or manual processes and have experienced certain flight delays and cancellations."
While RTX didn’t share any other details regarding the incident, cybersecurity expert Kevin Beaumont says the attackers used an “incredibly basic” ransomware variant called Hardbit.
However, BleepingComputer has not been able to independently verify this and has received information from other sources indicating that Loki ransomware was deployed in the attack.
These ransomware variants are typically used in smaller attacks that do not have a widespread impact, making their use unusual in this situation. However, they are both Ransomware-as-a-Service programs, allowing any affiliate to use them.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Crown Resorts confirms ransom demand after GoAnywhere breachPennsylvania AG Office says ransomware attack behind recent outageNevada closes state offices as cyberattack disrupts IT systemsColt confirms customer data stolen as Warlock ransomware auctions filesPharma firm Inotiv says ransomware attack impacted operations
AirPort
Cyberattack
Europe
Flight
Ransomware
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
CISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploit
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT