iPhone 17 Review in Progress: Overdue Upgrades Make a Noticeable Difference - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Phones
I Tested the iPhone 17: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Notable Difference
Early review: The entry-level iPhone is holding its own this year with hardware and camera upgrades that move it closer to Apple's Pro devices.
Article updated on September 17, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
The iPhone 17 brings many long-awaited features, like an always-on display.  Abrar Al-Heeti/ Zooey Liao/CNET
Table of Contents
I Tested the iPhone 17: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Notable Difference
iPhone 17 gets big display upgrades
iPhone 17 is more durable -- and colorful
iOS 26 brings more customization
iPhone 17 camera gets sharper
iPhone 17 battery
Final thoughts: Should you buy the iPhone 17?
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max
How we test phones
It's easy to overlook the iPhone 17, especially in a year when the ultraslim iPhone Air has stolen the spotlight -- and the bright orange iPhone 17 Pro is hulking next to it. But subtle upgrades to Apple's baseline model add up to notable improvements that make the iPhone 17 worth your attention.The iPhone 17 may not be the flashiest device in Apple's latest lineup (yes, it looks strikingly similar to the iPhone 16). But in the week I've used the phone, updates to the display, cameras and battery have helped this entry-level device feel like it's narrowing the chasm separating it from its pricey Pro counterparts.
Watch this: iPhone Air Review: A Joy to Hold, at a Cost
10:06
The iPhone 17 starts at $829 (or $799 if you activate with a carrier), which means there thankfully hasn't been a price increase over last year's model. In fact, you're technically getting more bang for your buck with the iPhone 17, since it starts with a higher 256GB storage option, doing away with the 128GB starting point on the iPhone 16. Here are my early impressions of the iPhone 17, which is available for order now and goes on sale Friday. You can also check out my in-depth review of the $999 iPhone Air.
At last: 120Hz displays on the baseline iPhones. CNETiPhone 17 gets big display upgradesAt long last, Apple has extended a 120Hz display across all of its phones, not just the Pro models. As a result, the iPhone 17 gets smoother scrolling and, perhaps most thrillingly for me, an always-on display that lets you glance at the time and notifications without waking the screen. On the one hand, it feels odd in 2025 to be applauding something as basic as a 120Hz display, but on the other, I'm just glad it's finally there.The iPhone 17 also gets a higher 3,000-nit peak brightness and an anti-reflective coating that makes it easier to see in the bright outdoors. I didn't have any issues looking at my screen even in peak daytime hours. Altogether, these display upgrades help the iPhone 17 feel like less of a major step down from the top-of-the-line iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max.
The iPhone 17 comes in five colors. I tested the lavender option and immediately fell in love. Abrar Al-Heeti/Zooey Liao/CNETiPhone 17 is more durable -- and colorfulDespite the similar appearance of the iPhone 17 and 16, the newer model has a slightly larger frame and a 6.3-inch display, as opposed to the 6.1-inch display on last year's baseline phone. The bezels are impressively thin, especially when compared to a phone like the Pixel 10, which helps content viewing feel more immersive.  A Ceramic Shield 2 display offers three-times better scratch resistance, according to Apple. That's welcome news for me, as I somehow have a tendency to etch into my phones' displays. So far, though, I'm happy to report there have been no scuffs or scratches, even without a case or screen protector.The iPhone 17's aluminum frame has a satisfying matte texture. It carries over the color on the phone's backing all along the sides for a cohesive appearance. I have the iPhone 17 in lavender, which may be one of my favorite hues of any phone I've used. It's a gentle shade that's easy on the eyes, with a cloudy-white soft undertone. I checked out the other colors -- black, white, sage and mist blue -- at Apple Park during the fall iPhone event, and each was just as pleasing to the eye.One key advantage the iPhone 17 has over the pricier iPhone Air is its dual-speaker system, which delivers more balanced sound. The Air, by contrast, has just a single top speaker. It's one way the baseline model outshines the flashier Air.But, as per usual, the iPhone 17 packs a slightly less powerful processor than its counterparts: an A19 chip, rather than the A19 Pro on the iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro and iPhone 17 Pro Max. In my experience, that hasn't led to any noticeable differences in how videos or games look on the baseline 17 versus the iPhone Air. I wasn't able to run benchmark testing during this review cycle, but will update this story with the results when I have them. iOS 26 brings more customizationThe iPhone 17 comes with iOS 26 on board, which includes the new Liquid Glass design. After a bit of adjustment, I've grown fond of how clean the interface looks and the more translucent controls, which let you see more content across the screen. You can go all-in on the new look and make your app icons transparent, but that's a step too far for me.Group texts get an upgrade with the option to add fun backgrounds, and you can conduct polls to simplify planning hangouts. It's a minor detail, but I'm enjoying the option to expand the height of the time on the lock screen and watch it squish as notifications roll in. The Spatial Scene setting gives your wallpaper a three-dimensional effect as you move your phone -- so my Hogwarts lock screen looks a little more alive.I don't often call or text people who speak languages I don't understand, but if the need arises, especially during travels, Live Translation will automatically translate what someone is saying over voice calling, FaceTime and iMessage. There's a slight lag when I use the automated voice translation on calls and it can be a bit awkward to hear it speak over the person on the other line, but it's still a neat capability. The feature isn't quite as advanced as Google's Pixel 10, which uses AI to mimic the speaker's voice.And while I'm still bummed Google's Circle to Search has yet to arrive on iPhones, an update to Apple's Visual Intelligence feature introduces a similar capability. When you take a screenshot, you can now ask ChatGPT for more information about what's on your screen, or you can squiggle on something to see relevant links and more information from platforms such as Google, Etsy and Poshmark.
The iPhone 17 has a wide and ultrawide camera, which are both 48 megapixels.  Abrar Al-Heeti/Zooey Liao/CNETiPhone 17 camera gets sharperUnlike the iPhone Air's solo rear camera, the iPhone 17 packs two rear cameras: a 48-megapixel wide-angle camera and a 48-megapixel ultrawide. That's an upgrade over the 12-megapixel ultrawide camera on the iPhone 16. It's interesting to have more photo-taking flexibility on a less expensive iPhone model, since the iPhone Air can't take 0.5x photos or Cinematic mode videos. It's another way this baseline device makes a case for itself.
Enlarge Image
The iPhone 17 masterfully captures all the different colors and materials in this art installation.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Enlarge Image
If you're new here, I like to take pictures of teacups. This 2x shot pulls this cup to the foreground and helps it pop. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Enlarge Image
The crisp details in the flower petals are striking. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Enlarge Image
This 2x portrait mode shot adds some depth to these chandeliers.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Enlarge Image
Portrait mode is great for added drama. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETLike the iPhone Air, the iPhone 17 takes 12-megapixel 2x telephoto images, which maintain a solid level of detail as you punch in. Photos default to 24 megapixels, but you can switch to 48 megapixels to capture a bit more detail.
Enlarge Image
Here's a globe shot at 24 megapixels. There's a good amount of texture and the colors are balanced, even without resorting to a 48-megapixel image. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Enlarge Image
It's subtle, but the 48-megapixel photo brightens up shadows throughout and makes the text a bit sharper. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETLike the rest of the iPhone 17 lineup, the entry-level model includes an 18-megapixel selfie camera with Center Stage, which automatically -- or manually, if you prefer -- shifts your shot from portrait to landscape as more people enter the frame, so you don't have to rotate your phone. As an added perk, everyone's gaze will also look more centered because the camera isn't so far off to the side. You can set this to work automatically, but since it can be a little glitchy, I usually just tap the dedicated button above the shutter instead.
Enlarge Image
Center Stage flipped this selfie into a horizontal image -- without me having to turn the phone. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETDual Capture is a fun feature that lets you simultaneously record from both your front and back cameras, which appear as a FaceTime-style picture-in-picture rectangle that you can move around the screen. Concert videos are about to get a lot more fun. iPhone 17 battery Apple doesn't share specific battery specs for its phones, but says the iPhone 17 has up to 30 hours of video playback. It can charge at up to 40 watts. In CNET's 45-minute endurance test, which includes streaming, scrolling through social media, joining a video call and playing games, the iPhone 17's battery went from full to 98%. Impressively, that matches the results of the iPhone 17 Pro. (And for added comparison, the iPhone Air finished off at 95%, while the iPhone 17 Pro Max ended at 99%.)I'll be running more battery tests on this phone in the coming days, so be sure to check back for those results. What I can say is the iPhone 17 can easily last a little over a day, even after snapping photos, scrolling through social media, texting and watching videos. (Apple says the iPhone 17 has up to 8 hours more of video playback compared to the iPhone 16.)An iOS 26 feature called Adaptive Power Mode is designed to help extend battery life even more by automatically adjusting your iPhone's performance based on how you're using it at that moment. That might mean lowering your display's brightness, scaling back on CPU speeds and turning off some background activities. It could also activate low power mode. It takes about a week for Adaptive Power to kick in, so I have yet to see it in action.
Here is the iPhone 17 in sage (left) and lavendar. CNETFinal thoughts: Should you buy the iPhone 17?The baseline iPhone is never really meant to turn heads when stacked against the rest of an Apple lineup, but some notable upgrades on the iPhone 17 make it a worthy contender if you're in the market for a new device that ticks the basics. Improvements to the display and camera help the iPhone 17 feel like it's really worth that $829 price, and can make it an enticing option if you don't want to spend upwards of $1,000 on a Pro model. Many of the newest features, such as  Center Stage and Dual Capture, are available across Apple's latest lineup -- you won't have to cough up more cash and upgrade to the iPhone 17 Pro or Pro Max to tap into them. While Apple tends to debut new features like Dynamic Island, the Action button and the Camera Control button on Pro models before extending them to the baseline devices, the differences between the iPhone 17 and its Pro counterparts feel a little less glaring this year.If you have an iPhone 14 device or a non-Pro iPhone 15, jumping to the iPhone 17 might be a worthwhile upgrade, since you'll be able to tap into Apple Intelligence and newer hardware features such as the Camera Control button. But if you're using an iPhone 16, there's probably not enough cause to upgrade -- even if features like Dual Capture and Center Stage are pretty neat.iPhone 17 vs. iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max undefined Apple iPhone 17Apple iPhone AirApple iPhone 17 ProApple iPhone 17 Pro Max Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.5-inch OLED; 2,736 x 1,260 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.9-inch OLED; 2,868 x 1,320 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh ratePixel density 460ppi460ppi460ppi460ppiDimensions (inches) 5.89 x 2.81 x 0.31 in6.15 x 2.94 x 0.22 in5.91 x 2.83 x 0.34 in6.43 x 3.07 x 0.34 inDimensions (millimeters) 149.6 x 71.5 x 7.95 mm156.2 x 74.7 x 5.64 mm150.0 x 71.9 x 8.75 mm163.4 x 78.0 x 8.75 mmWeight (grams, ounces) 177 g (6.24 oz)165 g (5.82 oz)206 g (7.27 oz)233 g (8.22 oz)Mobile software iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26Camera 48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)Front-facing camera 18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixelVideo capture 4K4K4K4KProcessor Apple A19Apple A19 ProApple A19 ProApple A19 ProRAM + storage RAM N/A + 256GB, 512GBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBExpandable storage NoneNoneNoneNoneBattery Up to 30 hours video playback; up to 27 hours video playback (streamed)Up to 27 hours video playback; up to 22 hours video playback (streamed).
Up to 40 hours video playback, up to 35 hours video playback (streamed) with iPhone Air MagSafe BatteryUp to 33 hours video playback; up to 30 hours video playback (streamed).Up to 39 hours video playback; up to 35 hours video playback (streamed).Fingerprint sensor None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)Connector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneSpecial features Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, mist blue, sage, lavender. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Apple C1X cellular modem. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: space black, cloud white, light gold, sky blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 20W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.US price starts at $829 (256GB)$999 (256GB)$1,099 (256GB)$1,199 (256GB)
How we test phonesEvery phone CNET's reviews team tests is used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions, from bright sunlight to dark indoor scenes. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode, and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily, as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether that phone, whatever price it is, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
ABRAR AL-HEETI
Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.