The meaning behind the moniker: how to choose a science-company name that delights customers, colleagues and investors
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
career feature
article
CAREER FEATURE
23 September 2025
The meaning behind the moniker: how to choose a science-company name that delights customers, colleagues and investors
Should you have a brainstorming session, use a branding agency or go with gut feeling? In a new article series, Nature explores the art of corporate naming.
By
Jacqui Thornton0
Jacqui Thornton
Jacqui Thornton is a freelance writer based in Winchester, UK.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Find a new job
Kapoose Creek Bio’s unique fungal collection is analysed on site at the company’s research station on Vancouver Island in Canada.Credit: Kapoose Creek BioAlongside the commercial aspects of setting up a company, such as filing patents, attracting investors and recruiting staff, science entrepreneurs face a more creative challenge: what to call their business. In January, Richard Kuo described how his spin-off from the University of Edinburgh, UK, became Wobble Genomics. The name is a reference to biologist Francis Crick’s hypothesis that, in some RNA molecules, the third base in a nucleotide triplet pairs more flexibly than the other two — in other words, that a ‘wobble’ occurs at this position. Kuo said he also reasoned that something “a little bit silly-sounding would probably stick in people’s heads better”.Series: The meaning behind our monikerReagan Jarvis, chief executive and co-founder of Anocca, an immunotherapy biotechnology company in Södertälje, Sweden, says Kuo’s reasoning was spot on, and could spark a discussion with potential customers, investors or employees. “I think it’s a great name. It’s topical, it’s relevant. I know what a wobble base pair is, and you can have an extended conversation about that.” Maneesh Jain is a co-founder and chief executive of Mirvie, a pregnancy-health biotech firm in San Francisco, California. A physicist by training, Jain recalls starting ParAllele, his first company, in 2000. Its work involved studying mutations in the human genome. “Each variant is called an allele, and we were doing thousands in parallel, so we thought ParAllele would be a pretty interesting name,” he says.“Unfortunately, most often, people would call up and say, ‘Oh, hello, is that Paralegal?’ So sometimes, names can be a bit too clever. Literal names sound exciting, but I think sometimes they come with unintended consequences.”
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02894-zSubscribe to Nature Briefing: Careers, an unmissable free weekly round-up of help and advice for working scientists.
Related Articles
Why a silly-sounding name suits the serious mission of our biotech spin-off
My career path from chemist to spin-off co-founder to chief technology officer
Careers advice from scientists in industry
Series: The meaning behind our moniker
Subjects
Business
Technology
Careers
Industry
Latest on:
Business
‘LinkedIn is like air to me’: the scientists who’ve cracked professional networking
Career Feature 08 SEP 25
Hard paths: how courage differs from bravery in science
Career Q&A 28 JUL 25
Home medical tests miss the mark
Outlook 03 JUL 25
Technology
Real-time molecular recorders expose the inner lives of cells
Technology Feature 22 SEP 25
The ‘near-telepathic’ device that puts AI in your head
News 18 SEP 25
GPS timekeeping is increasingly vulnerable: here’s how to deliver future-proofed time
Comment 15 SEP 25
Careers
How a mentoring connection boosted my ambitions for a science career
Career Column 19 SEP 25
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Research specialist in integrated photonics
Seeking a Research Specialist in integrated photonics to support experiments, labs, training, and collaboration on cutting-edge research projects.
Gothenburg (Stad), Västra Götaland (SE)
Chalmers University of Technology - MC2
FAFU Global Faculty Recruitment
FAFU welcomes applicants of all nationalities to apply for faculty positions at any rank (full professor, associate professor, assistant professor).
Fuzhou, Fujian (CN)
Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University
Global Talent Recruitment-Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Leading Talent, Excellent Young Scholars (Overseas), Young Top Talents, Postdoctoral Fellow
Xi'an, Shaanxi (CN)
Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Tenure-track Positions at The HIT Center for Life Sciences, China
Harbin, Heilongjiang (CN)
The HIT Center for Life Sciences (HCLS)
Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Positions
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China
School of Sustainable Energy and Resources at Nanjing University
Related Articles
Why a silly-sounding name suits the serious mission of our biotech spin-off
My career path from chemist to spin-off co-founder to chief technology officer
Careers advice from scientists in industry
Series: The meaning behind our moniker
Subjects
Business
Technology
Careers
Industry
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited