Pacific Drive DLC coming this year, and it will be 'scarier'
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Pacific Drive
Ironwood Studios on how the ‘scarier’ DLC will subvert expectations
Pacific Drive will go full folk horror in new expansion Whispers in the Woods
By
Oli Welsh
Published Sep 9, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Pacific Drive
Related
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
2 days ago
Silksong is the first major Switch 2 game that justifies a Pro controller
Sep 9, 2025
New Elden Ring: Nightreign patch is for the bird lovers and the goat haters
Sep 10, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
add iframe code inside nonscript tag for crwaler
Credit: Image: Ironwood Studios/Kepler Interactive
Pacific Drive is not not a scary game. Ironwood Studios’ brilliant 2024 debut is a survival game centered on driving an old station wagon through foggy Pacific Northwest woods in an irradiated exclusion zone where reality is beginning to crumble. It’s about foraging for materials to upgrade your car while avoiding anomalous hazards: strange, tumbling creatures made of scrap metal, pools of radiation, pylons that erupt from the ground. The setting is spooky, and Pacific Drive is engineered to be tense, right down to its randomized gameplay loop. Still, the game’s first major expansion, Whispers in the Woods — just announced, and due later in 2025 — seems to take things up a gear. The trailer is frightening enough on its own. A grainy filter and handheld-camera style take the game’s desolate sci-fi visuals in a folk-horror direction, further emphasized by a haunting drone-choir soundtrack, stressed-out voiceover, and pagan-looking structures. The mood is a little less Half-Life and a little more Wicker Man (whilst still being very Stalker — both the 1979 Andrei Tarkovsky film and the games it inspired). “Absolutely, I think we've tilted the needle towards horror intentionally,” Ironwood CEO and creative director Cassandra Dracott told Polygon on a video call. “One of the things that I really like about Pacific Drive is the contrast of stories and experiences, whether it's like a peaceful morning in the rain in your car, or something quite a bit more hectic. And the wonderful thing about having a game with a dynamic setting and a story around you and your car is that you can add a new wrapper or a new idea into it, and it becomes its own experience. And for this expansion, that's the direction that we wanted to go: Can we give [people] something that is a little bit scarier with intention, and then maybe subvert some of their expectations with how the game works, how some of the rules work while they play?”
Credit: Image: Ironwood Studios/Kepler Interactive
Dracott refers to both Stalker and Annihilation and their source novels as inspiration for Pacific Drive and its haunted zone. Whispers in the Woods doesn’t have specific inspirations beyond those, Dracott said, but does draw on the subversive power of horror generally. “I'm a big fan of the shift in normality that some horror movies take that really makes things unsettling. I like surrealistic fiction for the same reason,” she said. “But if you could go and look at Paranormal Activity, they don't do a lot in Paranormal Activity, right? It's questioning the comfort of something that is safe. And we are doing that here. You've played the game for 40 hours, you've mastered Pacific Drive, you thought you knew everything that was out in the Zone — but maybe you don't now, and maybe there's a lot worse things than you thought.” Whispers in the Woods is a substantial story DLC for Pacific Drive that should take eight to 12 hours to play through, according to Dracott — “I think we're around a third the size of the base game in terms of how much we're adding” — and is playable from early on in the game all the way through to the post-game. Dracott is coy about the plot, but says the story is driven by an all-new voice cast, and concerns a “mysterious group of anomaly-obsessed fanatics that have started to make an appearance out in the Zone.”
Credit: Image: Ironwood Studios/Kepler Interactive
In gameplay terms, the expansion will introduce new items, anomalies, car parts, and “mysterious things for people to go and find.” But perhaps the biggest addition to (or subversion of) the game will be Artifacts. These take the place of the base game’s Anchors as key items that are needed to make it through an exit gateway at the end of a run and return to your base with loot intact. They also play into the resource and crafting economy, so you’ll want to collect as many as you can. The catch is that Artifacts, which work similarly to the base game’s system of Quirks that modified car behavior, add potentially dangerous new rules to the game world. If you’re carrying several Artifacts, and their effects stack, things could get very tricky. “It could be [that] when you jump, your car horn honks, and it takes place anytime they're in your inventory or in the car's inventory,” Dracott explained. “So you may find another one that's when your car horn honks, your car takes damage, and together those create a problem for anyone that habitually bunny-hops in games like myself. But some of them get quite a bit more dangerous, and the way it works is they're required for progression and for navigating these new maps, but if you hold too many of them, there are some negative consequences. You start to draw the attention of some rather spooky things. We're really excited for the new kinds of stories and emergent elements that can come from this.”
Credit: Image: Ironwood Studios/Kepler Interactive
One thing that clearly won’t change in Whispers in the Woods is the intense relationship the player has with their car, which is simultaneously their avatar and their base, their refuge and their vulnerable charge. “I wanted to make an experience about isolation and you on the road, and I think it came from a couple of key moments in my life where I spent a lot of time driving,” Dracott said. She remembers being inspired by a rainy drive on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington state, where Pacific Drive is set, in her Hyundai Accent; the car became a station wagon in the final game as a way to ground the surreal experience of the Zone in a kind of comforting Americana. “But at its core it was, ‘What does it feel like to be on the road? What kind of comfort can you find? What kind of different experiences can you have?’ I think we’ve captured a lot of that.” Pacific Drive: Whispers in the Woods launches on PlayStation 5 and Windows PC later in 2025.
Previews
Gaming
PC
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
A new Nintendo Direct is coming Sept. 12
Sep 9, 2025
Try to decode this indecipherable Avengers: Doomsday teaser
Sep 9, 2025
Hazbin Hotel's season 2 teaser has one moment that really matters
Sep 9, 2025
2025 is the best year for 2D platformers since the SNES days
More from our brands
Everything We Know About Hazelight's Upcoming Sci-fi Co-op Game, Split Fiction
Best Open-World Games On Xbox Game Pass (March 2025)
Best PlayStation Plus Games (April 2025)
Best Games To Play If You Liked Legend Of Zelda: Breath Of The Wild
James Wan Developing TV Show Based on One of 2024's Best New Indie Games
The Best PS5 Games For Kids (Across Multiple Genres)
Best Local Co-Op & Split-Screen Games On Steam
Most Popular
Can the U.S. handle a 28 Years Later-style outbreak?
Jordan Peele might be the next Steven Spielberg — which also means producing duds
Magic's new Spider-Man set exposes a growing debate over MTG's most popular product
28 Years Later: The zombies are doing what?
50 years ago, Al Pacino made a perfect crime thriller that was ahead of its time
15 years later, Halo fans are still debating Halo: Reach
See More
Trending Now
Should The Game Awards up GOTY to 10 nominees?
What is a AAA game? A clever system ends the debate
Him star Julia Fox reveals her character's secret backstory
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.