The chillest puzzle game you'll ever play is at its lowest price ever on Steam
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
The chillest puzzle game you'll ever play is at its lowest price ever on Steam
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 8, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
It's kind of weird that puzzle games aren't inherently chill, isn't it? I mean, in real life, doing a crossword or solving a jigsaw is pretty easy-going, but I wouldn't say that Portal 2 is a particularly "chill game." In fact, some moments can be downright stressful. Fortunately, there are still games on Steam that will both tax your brain and give you a relaxing time. One of those is Dorfromantik, a really delightful countryside-based puzzle game that has enjoyed critical success on Steam. Best of all, it's currently at its lowest discount ever seen on Steam at a cool 60% off.
Dorfromantik is 60% off on Steam right now
I know what you're thinking, so I need to clarify something really quickly. This game is not about smooching the bearded, mountain-dwelling fantasy race from The Lord of the Rings. In fact, the game's title, "Dorfromantik," comes from an old German word that means "village romanticization," and it's essentially that feeling you feel when you're in the countryside and kind of wish you could just live there forever. There's an excellent reason why it has this name. The game is about building your own countryside to the best of your ability, and it sounds more stressful than it actually is. In fact, the game takes great pride in how relaxing the experience can be. Here's how the developers describe it:
In Dorfromantik you start with a stack of procedurally generated tiles. One after the other, you draw the top tile of the stack, place it on one available slot and rotate for the best fit. Thereby groups and combinations of landscapes are formed, such as forests, villages or water bodies, and you are rewarded with points depending on how well the tile fits.
On some tiles you will also encounter special objects that give you a quest: For example, the windmill wants to border 6 grain fields, the locomotive wants to be connected to 10 tracks or the deer wants to inhabit a forest with at least 50 trees. Fulfill these quests to get more tiles to continue the expansion of your landscape. The game ends when the tile stack is used up.
Sounds delightful, doesn't it? As it turns out, just under 15,000 critics share the same opinion, as the game boasts a 96% positive lifetime review rating on Steam. If you want to try it for yourself, head over to the Dorfromantik Steam page and grab it while it's 60% off at $5.59. A small price to pay for a chill game, I'd say.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
This Samsung 40-inch ultrawide monitor combines the best of both worlds and is now available at its lowest price yet
Sep 9, 2025
5 apps that are way better on Linux than they are on Windows
Sep 10, 2025
5 media center ideas to turn your Raspberry Pi into a home theater hub
Sep 10, 2025
This free and open-source program turns your self-hosted media into a TV station
More from our brands
OFF: Zone 2 Guide
30 Best Co-Op Games On Steam (April 2025)
Resident Evil Meets Alone In The Dark In This Criminally Underrated Survival Horror Game That's Just $2 On Switch
Best Local Co-Op & Split-Screen Games On Steam
This week’s big Steam sale is a great time to dive into Paradox’s grand strategy games
10 Best Cozy Games On Steam Deck, Ranked
Stardew Valley: What Dwarf Scrolls Are (& Why You Should Collect Them)
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This self-hosted collaborative markdown editor is our family’s new wiki
I built a calendar-aware smart home with Home Assistant
4 things the game doesn't tell you in Hollow Knight: Silksong
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.