Mario Kart World update 1.3.0 makes big Free Roam improvements
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Mario Kart World
P Switch hunting and Kamek unlocks just got a lot easier
Mario Kart World makes major Free Roam improvements in new patch
By
Oli Welsh
Published 14 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Mario Kart World
Related
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
1 day ago
Julia Fox shot an alternate ending for Him, and has opinions on what could have come next
2 days ago
30 years ago, David Fincher's scariest thriller revived horror
3 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Nintendo
Nintendo has updated Mario Kart World to version 1.3.0, and the patch includes some notable quality-of-life improvements, especially for the game's slightly undercooked Free Roam mode. The biggest of these is that the Free Roam map now displays the locations of P Switches and Peach Medallions you've already found. While this keeps the locations of these collectibles a mystery, it should still make hunting for them easier, since you can easily see which parts of the map you've already covered and which could use further exploration. P Switch challenges you've yet to beat appear greyed out, and best of all, you can now fast travel to the location of any P Switch. Nintendo has also added a new method for unlocking Mario Kart World's special characters. Previously this was only possible if you happened to be transformed into them by Kamek during a race — an entirely random occurrence. The new method is slightly less arcane, but only slightly. If you see a UFO in Free Roam, are sucked up by it, and assume control of it, you can now use the UFO's tractor beam to pull in special characters and transform into them. UFOs have been made more common as well. Nintendo has also further increased the frequency of three-lap courses appearing in multiplayer races, a key complaint among players who are less keen on Mario Kart World's point-to-point racing style (which was already the subject of an earlier patch). Many won't be happy until the game introduces a circuit-racing-only mode, though. Balance changes include item boxes reappearing faster after they've been taken, and increased invincibility time after spinning or crashing out during a race. Some game transitions have been sped up, and there are a slew of bug fixes, too. Nintendo's full patch notes for Mario Kart World 1.3.0 are below.
General
You can now join friends playing "Knockout Tour" by selecting "Friends" from "Online Play" "1p."
Up to 2 players can now play "Free Roam" while waiting if the game was full when trying to join friends playing "Race," "Knockout Tour" or "Battle" in "Online Play."
The "Free Roam" map now displays the locations of P Switches you've run over and Peach Medallions you've obtained.
You can now select a P Switch from the map and move to a location near the P Switch.
In "Free Roam", you can now transform into the character pulled into the UFO.
If "Dash Food" in "Settings/Controller" is set to "Doesn’t transform" then you will not transform.
It is now easier to encounter UFOs in "Free Roam."
The conditions for the appearance of some Peach Medallions in "Free Roam" have been adjusted.
When spectating in "Knockout Tour" or "Balloon Battle" in "Online Play" or "Wireless Play", you can now choose who to watch, even if you are holding the Joy-Con 2 or Joy-Con horizontally.
Decreased the time between when an item box is taken by someone and the next time it is revived.
Increased the invincible time after spinning or crashing during a race.
Reduced the force of jumps when landing on a rival from above.
Decreased the amount of time between when you finish and when spectating begins in "Knockout Tour" or "Balloon Battle" in "Online Play" or "Wireless Play."
Decreased the amount of time between passing through the checkpoint and when the ranking is displayed in "Knockout Tour" in "Wireless Play" and "LAN Play."
Further increased the frequency of lap-type courses appearing in the selection when choosing the next course in "VS Race" and wireless races.
Fixed Issues
Fixed an issue in "Online Play" and "Wireless Play" where the ranking would sometimes become incorrect if a player went off course at the same time as reaching the finish line.
Fixed an issue in "Grand Prix", "Knockout Tour", and "VS Race", where the CPU's ranking would sometimes drop after reaching the finish line.
Fixed an issue in "Knockout Tour" in "Online Play" where other players' ratings would sometimes appear as "0" on the results screen.
Fixed an issue where a Spiny Shell would sometimes pass the first place player in "Wireless Play" or "Online Play."
Fixed an issue where players would sometimes be sent flying backwards a great distance when hit by a Spiny Shell.
Fixed an issue where the second item in an item slot would sometimes not disappear when hit by Lightning.
Fixed an issue where hitting the base of a pillar in mid-air would sometimes cause a large jump.
Fixed an issue that sometimes caused movement to become unstable when doing a wall ride on water.
Fixed an issue where players would sometimes be swept away strongly after landing when doing a mini jump while going up a river.
Fixed an issue where players would sometimes pass through the ground when hit by a car driving on the road.
Fixed an issue in "Free Roam" where players would sometimes be unable to enter pipes correctly after exiting a trailer.
Fixed an issue where the results screen would sometimes become distorted after spectating "Balloon Battle" in "Online Play."
Fixed an issue where the game would sometimes not proceed to the course selection screen after exiting a pipe during "Free Roam" in "Online Play."
Fixed an issue where Bullet Bill would sometimes slip through walls when used in "Sky-High Sundae."
Fixed an issue where players would sometimes get stuck on a wall at the start of the race heading from "Airship Fortress" to "Shy Guy Bazaar."
Fixed an issue where players would sometimes get stuck in walls when using a Bullet Bill in "Bowser’s Castle."
Fixed an issue in "Cheep Cheep Falls" where item boxes were sometimes difficult to pick up when Smart Steering was turned on.
Fixed an issue in "Knockout Tour" "Spiny Rally" where sometimes there was an item box buried in the ground.
Several other issues have been addressed to improve the gameplay experience.
News
Nintendo Switch 2
Nintendo
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
Jordan Peele might be the next Steven Spielberg — which also means producing duds
1 day ago
How a death metal singer helped bring Dead by Daylight’s Thai boogeyman to life
1 day ago
Looks like Rockstar's getting ahead of GTA 6 role-playing
1 day ago
Baldur's Gate 3 is easier to play on your Steam Deck than ever before
More from our brands
Zelda: Breath Of The Wild - 6 Best Improvements In The Switch 2 Edition
Mario Kart World: Tips & Tricks for Beginners
How to Unlock Everything in Mario Kart World (All Karts, Characters, and Tracks)
How To Unlock Every Character in Mario Kart World
How to Free Roam in Mario Kart World
Mario Kart 8: 13 Best Shortcuts You Should Be Using
Mario Kart: 25 Pro Tips To Help You At 200cc
Most Popular
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
Every big announcement from PlayStation’s new State of Play
Saros looks a whole lot like Returnal in new gameplay footage, out 2026
The Voyager game drops you into Star Trek’s ultimate ethical debate
See More
Trending Now
Yakuza Kiwami 3 announced, comes with entire new spinoff game
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
What Michael Rooker's multiple roles in the DCU mean for the canon
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.