A look inside the long journey for those seeking asylum in the U.S. - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
CBS Evening News
|
Full Episodes
Eye On America
On the Road
Watch CBS News
CBS Evening News
A look inside the long journey for those seeking asylum in the U.S.
By
Adam
Yamaguchi
September 15, 2025 / 8:02 PM EDT
/ CBS News
Following immigrant's journey to seek U.S. asylum
Following an immigrant's journey to seek asylum in the U.S.
03:16
Abdou Taleb Ali recently learned his asylum hearing may still be a year or two away in 2027 or 2028. He's been in the United States for more than 18 months, crossing the border illegally after fleeing his home in the African country of Mauritania, where he claims he was politically persecuted."I'm very relieved," he said after his September court hearing in New York. "Because, you know, I was about to lose everything right now. My case, the money that I paid them. Everything."According to Syracuse University's immigration tracking data, there are more than 2 million active asylum cases waiting to be heard. A shortage of immigration judges and the Trump administration's prioritizing deportations have added to the backlog.Ali acknowledges there are Americans who feel he shouldn't even be in the U.S."They are right. This is their country. But I'm just a guy looking for safety and security," he told CBS News.
Ali found refuge in a migrant shelter in Queens, New York."I used to sleep in bed with my wife and son," he said. "Now, I'm next to a thousand men who I don't even know."Ali stayed in the shelter for about two months, during which he worked on preparing the necessary documentation for his asylum claim."Since then, I'm working. I'm taking care of myself. As you see. You gotta find your own job. You gotta make your own money," he said.
Ali insists he's trying to do things the right way. He regularly checks in with immigration, has a Social Security number and work permit. "I make food for people. I make people happy. You know, I'm doing something good for the economy, you know. I'm paying my own taxes. ... So I think I deserve a chance," he said.Ali was recently promoted at the restaurant where he works, and while he works 12 hours a day, six days a week to pay rent and build up savings, he's also trying to remain invisible.Ali said there are "bad people" who come into the U.S. illegally, but said, "The only thing that I did is, like, escaping my own home, trying to find a place that they can provide safety and secure for me."He said he hopes one day to reunite with his wife and children, who wait anxiously in Mauritania to learn his fate in court. In spite of the obstacles, Ali remains determined to write his own American success story."I have faith in the American government," Ali said. "This is the greatest country. You can do whatever you wanna do in this country. As long as you doing in the, the good way, like respecting the law, working hard, you can live your dream, you know."
Immigration
More
Trump unveils "Gold Card" fast-track visas for $1 million
Trump administration ending legal status of thousands of Syrians in U.S.
Judge blocks deportation of Guatemalan kids, saying justification "crumbled"
Judge orders Columbia activist Mahmoud Khalil to be deported to Algeria or Syria
U.S. adding more questions to citizenship test
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
More from CBS News
Federal security efforts in full tilt ahead of Charlie Kirk's memorial service
Trump asks Supreme Court to intervene on Venezuelan deportation protections
Why 7-foot-3 Jordan Wilmore left his basketball career behind to pursue policing
As Trump plans autism announcement, Tylenol maker and medical experts push back
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue