Apple Bars Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Apple Crumb Bars
Apple Caramel Cheesecake Bars
Glazed Apple Pie Bars
Apple Kolaches
Caramel Apple Bar
Macaroon Bars
Raspberry Linzer Bars
Macadamia Sunshine Bars
Red Apple Butter Bars
Macadamia Lemon Bars
Apple Citrus Kugel Crumble
Fruitcake Bars
Apple Walnut Bars
Apple Kuchen
Applesauce Bars
Apple-Berry Streusel Bars
Raspberry Bars
Fruit Kuchen
Kielbasa Kabobs with Apple
Apple Kuchen Bars Recipe photo by Eric Kleinberg for Taste of Home
Home RecipesDishes & BeveragesBars
Apple Bars
Apple Kuchen Bars Recipe photo by Eric Kleinberg for Taste of Home
4.8 | 35 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 35 min. Bake: 1 hour + cooling
By
Justine Harrington
Recipe by Elizabeth Monfort, Celina, Ohio
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 09, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Check out our classic apple bars recipe in time for fall baking season.
If you love apple pie you’re in for a serious treat with these apple bars. When the glorious fall weather arrives and you find yourself craving autumnal flavors, fresh-baked apple bars are the ideal treat to have on hand. With a buttery crust and warmly spiced and moist apple filling, these bars are extra-delicious when drizzled with homemade caramel sauce and topped with a scoop of melty vanilla ice cream. Keep reading for our classic apple bars recipe; just in time for the fall baking season.
Ingredients for Apple Bars
All-purpose flour: Learn how to measure flour the right way so you don’t end up with too much or too little of the ingredient.
Salt: Salt enhances the overall flavor of these apple bars.
Butter: Be sure your butter is cold to help it incorporate into the dough.
Ice water: The ice water keeps the mixture moist.
Tart apples: Some good apple types to use include Granny Smith, Golden Delicious, Pink Lady and Honeycrisp.
Sugar: Sugar helps lock in moisture and adds a crucial sweetness.
Cinnamon: Ground cinnamon imparts a warmth and slight spice that complements the other flavors of these bars.
Directions
Step 1: Make the dough
Preheat the oven to 350°. Place the salt and 2 cups flour in a food processor and pulse until blended. Add 1 cup butter and pulse until the butter is the size of peas. While pulsing, add just enough ice water to form moist crumbs.
Step 2: Bake the crust
Press the mixture onto the bottom of a greased 13×9-inch baking pan. Bake until the edges are lightly browned, for about 20 t0 25 minutes. Cool on a wire rack.
Editor’s Tip: Keep in mind that the bake time for this recipe may vary depending on your oven. Be sure to keep a close watch on these bars, especially toward the end of the baking process.
Step 3: Make the apple filling and crumb topping
In a large bowl, combine the apples, 1 cup sugar and cinnamon; toss to coat. Spoon over the crust. Place the remaining flour, butter and sugar in the food processor and pulse until coarse crumbs form. Sprinkle over the apples.
Step 4: Bake and cut into bars
Bake until golden brown and the apples are tender (60 to 70 minutes). Let cool completely on a wire rack. Cut into bars.
Editor’s Tip: Line the pan with parchment paper to make it easier to get the baked bars out.
Apple Bars Recipe Variations
Add caramel: Make a batch of caramel sauce to have on hand to serve drizzled atop your apple bars.
Add nuts: Chopped nuts like walnuts, pecans, almonds or cashews provide a deliciously crunchy texture; add them as a topping.
Top with ice cream: A scoop of vanilla or salted caramel ice cream takes these bars to another level.
How to Store Apple Bars
While they’re best served fresh, these apple bars can be stored in an airtight container in the fridge. They’ll stay good for at least a couple days.
Can you freeze apple bars?
Yes, you can freeze apple bars. Freeze them immediately after cooling and keep them in the freezer, in an airtight container, for up to 30 days. Thaw them completely before serving.
Apple Bars Recipe Tips
Do you have to use a food processor for this recipe?
While a food processor is ideal (and well worth the investment for any home cook), you could also use a blender to mix the dough and filling. You could even cube the butter and use your hands as a last resort.
What should the texture of these bars be like?
When you follow this recipe your apple bars should turn out perfectly moist, flaky and buttery; they shouldn’t be too hard or chewy.
Can you double this apple bars recipe?
Yes, you can easily double this apple bars recipe. Treat it as two separate batches rather than trying to combine all the ingredients in a single pan.
Test Kitchen Approved
Apple Kuchen Bars
Contest Winner
4.8 | 35 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:2 dozen
Prep:35 min
Cook:1 hour
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
3 cups all-purpose flour, divided
1/4 teaspoon salt
1-1/2 cups cold butter, divided
4 to 5 tablespoons ice water
8 cups thinly sliced peeled tart apples (about 8 medium)
2 cups sugar, divided
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°. Place 2 cups flour and salt in a food processor; pulse until blended. Add 1 cup butter; pulse until butter is the size of peas. While pulsing, add just enough ice water to form moist crumbs. Press mixture onto bottom of a greased 13x9-in. baking pan. Bake until edges are lightly browned, 20-25 minutes. Cool on a wire rack.
In a large bowl, combine apples, 1 cup sugar and cinnamon; toss to coat. Spoon over crust. Place remaining flour, butter and sugar in food processor; pulse until coarse crumbs form. Sprinkle over apples. Bake until golden brown and apples are tender, 60-70 minutes. Cool completely on a wire rack. Cut into bars.
Nutrition Facts
1 bar: 240 calories, 12g fat (7g saturated fat), 30mg cholesterol, 106mg sodium, 33g carbohydrate (21g sugars, 1g fiber), 2g protein.
Author
Justine Harrington
Justine is an Austin, Texas-based writer who has contributed to a wide range of food, travel and hospitality publications over the last nine years, including Taste of Home, Real Simple, The Spruce Eats and Travel + Leisure.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This recipe is about family, comfort and simplicity. My mom made this delicious sweet treat many a winter night and served it warm with some of her famous homemade ice cream. I like to make a double batch and pass on the love! —Elizabeth Monfort, Celina, Ohio
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box