Privacy Policy - Entrepreneur Media, LLC
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Entrepreneur Media, LLC Privacy Policy
If you have entered this website from the European Union or Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein, please click on this link to read important information about how your personal data is used and stored.
If you have entered this website from the United Kingdom, please click on this link to read important information about how your personal data is used and stored.
Last Revised: June 2nd, 2025
Your Privacy is Serious Business to Us!
Entrepreneur Media, LLC ("EM") understands that privacy is very important to our website visitors and mobile application users (collectively, “our Website Visitors”).
This Privacy Policy, which is part of our Terms of Service, describes how we collect, use, share and protect your Personal Information (defined in Section 2 below), when you access and use our Services.
This Privacy Policy also tells you about the rights and choices you have with respect to your Personal Information, how you can assert those rights, and how you can contact us to get answers to your questions.
(As used in this Privacy Policy, “our Services” include without limitation our print magazine subscriptions, and our digital Services such as editorial and sponsored content, advertising, newsletters and other subscription programs, streaming videos, and other communications, offered and provided to you through our website located at www.entrepreneur.com, together with any related subsites, sub-domains, and mobile and software applications (collectively, “our Website”).
Also as used in this Privacy Policy, the terms "we," "us" and "our" refer to EM, and “you” refers to you as a user of our Services.)
Because we gather information about you, you need to know:
The kinds of information we collect and why we collect it;
How we use that information; and
How you can update that information or limit or control how it is used.
Please note that our privacy practices are subject to the applicable laws of the countries or regions in which we operate. Accordingly, some additional region-specific terms will only apply to individuals in those countries or regions, or as required by applicable laws.
For more information about how users with disabilities can access this Privacy Policy in an alternative format, please contact us
legal@entrepreneur.com or at the address set forth in Section 19 below.
We've tried to keep this Privacy Policy simple, but if you're not familiar with any of the terms used or have any questions, contact us at legal@entrepreneur.com or at the address set forth in Section 19 below. Your privacy matters to us at EM, so whether you are new to our Services or are a regular or long-time user, it is important that you take the time to carefully read our Privacy Policy, so you can understand our practices as relate to your information. We will ask for your consent before using your information in any manner and for any purpose other than as described in this Privacy Policy.
BY ACCESSING, BROWSING, OR OTHERWISE USING OUR WEBSITE, INCLUDING ANY OF OUR SERVICES, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THIS PRIVACY POLICY, AND THAT YOU CONSENT TO OUR COLLECTION, USE, AND DISCLOSURE OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION AND OTHER COLLECTED INFORMATION PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF THIS PRIVACY POLICY. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH OUR POLICIES OR PRACTICES AS DESCRIBED IN THIS PRIVACY POLICY, DO NOT CONTINUE TO ACCESS, BROWSE OR OTHERWISE USE OUR WEBSITE OR PROVIDE US WITH ANY INFORMATION, INCLUDING PERSONAL INFORMATION.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Scope of our Privacy Policy
The Kinds of Personal Information We Collect from You
How We Use Your Personal Information We Collect
The Advertising on Our Website
Data Retention
Privacy and Choice
Website Visitors under the Age of 16
The Information You Share with Others on Our Website
Updating Your Personal Information
Your Personal Information We Disclose
The Protection of Your Personal Information
Your Rights and Choices about What Personal Information We 	Collect and Maintain and How We Use that Information
Glossary of Terms
Handling Complaints from Our Website Visitors and Regulatory Authorities
The Privacy Rights of California Residents
The Privacy Rights of Residents of Other U.S. States
Exercising Your Privacy Rights
Privacy Policy Revisions and Updates
Contacting Us
1. THE SCOPE OF OUR PRIVACY POLICY.
1.1 While you may encounter links on our Website to the websites and other digital properties of third parties (collectively, “Non-EM Websites”), such as our third-party sponsors, advertisers, and other partners (collectively, “our Third-Party Partners”), this Privacy Policy does not apply to the activities of those Third-Party Partners, including:
the products or services offered by those Third-Party Partners on Non-EM Websites, which may be referenced on or linked from our Website (collectively, “Linked Services”); and
your Personal Information (defined in Section 2 below) those Third-Party Partners may collect, when you access or use their products or services while on our Website.
1.2 Linked Services are not under the control of EM, and EM is not responsible for Linked Services or for any information on or available from or through Linked Services. You access Linked Services at your own risk. The inclusion of a link does not imply endorsement by EM of the Linked Services or any association with the operators of the Linked Services. EM does not investigate, verify or monitor the Linked Services. EM provides links to Linked Services for your convenience only. Please check the URL provided in your browser to see if you are on any of the Linked Services or a Non-EM Website.
1.3 Please contact our Third-Party Partners to learn more about their privacy policies and how those policies relate to your access to their Non-EM Websites and use of their products and services, and the Personal Information they may collect from you as a result and how they may use that information.
1.4 Our Website and the content provided thereon are controlled, operated and administered by EM from its offices within the United States, and our policies and procedures are based on United States law. The content provided on our Website is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to applicable law. We do not in any manner warrant or represent that our Website, including the content provided thereon, is appropriate or available for use in any particular location. If you choose to access our Website, you do so on your own initiative, and you are responsible for compliance with all applicable laws as a result.
1.5 U.S. export control laws may apply to the content provided on our Website. You understand and agree that you shall not, and shall not permit any person or entity not affiliated with EM (“Third Party”) to, directly or indirectly, export, re-export or release any part of that content to, or make that content accessible from, any jurisdiction, to which export, re-export or release is prohibited by applicable law.
2. THE KINDS OF PERSONAL INFORMATION WE COLLECT FROM YOU.
We collect information to provide better products and services to all of our Website Visitors, including determining what types of Services offered and provided on our Website are of the most interest and relevance to you. We use the term  "Personal Information” to refer to information that reasonably identifies, relates to, describes, or can be associated with you.
2.1 We collect Personal Information about you from the following two sources:
The Personal Information you give us.
For example, many of the products and services offered on our Website require you to create an account. When you do so, we'll ask for your Personal Information, like your name, and contact information such as your email address, postal address, telephone number, and, if you are purchasing products or services on our Website, information such as the products and/or services purchased, the dates of purchase and the purchase price. In addition, when you create an account with us, we collect usernames, login information (including, for example, passwords), social media accounts and login information you provide.
The Personal Information we collect from your use of our Services. This Personal Information relates generally to what editorial and advertising content you view, and the products and/or services you use that we and our Third-Party Partners offer. This information includes:
Device Information. We collect information about the devices you use to access our Website, such as hardware settings, browser type, browser language, the date and time of your request and referral URL.
Usage Information. When you use our Services, we automatically collect and store certain information in server logs, which automatically record that information, including the following:
details about how you have used our Services, such as your search queries;
your IP address, which is the number assigned to an Internet connected device such as a tablet or smartphone and used to identify the geographic location of that device; and
cookies, pixels and other similar tracking technologies that may uniquely identify your browser and collect information about how you as a Website Visitor interact with our Services, as well as help us identify problems such as error messages from certain pages. A cookie is a small file containing a string of characters that is sent to your computer or other device when you visit our Service. When you visit our Website any time thereafter, the cookie allows us to recognize your browser and to store information about your user preferences and other Personal Information.
For further information about the Personal Information we automatically collect through the use of cookies and other tracking technologies, please review our Cookie Policy.
Location Information. When you visit our Website, we may collect and process information about your approximate location. We use various technologies to determine approximate location, including IP address.
Local storage. We may collect and store information (including Personal Information) locally on your device, using mechanisms such as browser web storage (including HTML 5), which allows for data to be stored on a browser even after the browser has been closed and then reopened, and application data caches, which allow for data to be stored on your device, enabling an application to run without an Internet connection and to load content faster.
Collection and Storage Technologies. We and our Third-Party Partners use various technologies to collect and store information when you access our Website, and this may include using cookies or other technologies to identify your browser or device. We also use these tracking technologies to collect and store information when you access our Website and interact with the content and products and services we offer, such as advertising services.
Information we receive when you link from Third-Party Sources: We allow you to sign into our Website from third-party websites, social media platforms, accounts and other sources such as Google®, Apple®, and Facebook® (collectively, “Third-Party Sources”).
If you create an account with, or log into our Website from, any such Third-Party Source, we receive your name and email address as permitted by the profile settings of that Third-Party Source, and:
You or the Third-Party Source may also integrate our Services with other services you use, such as allowing you to access, store, disclose and edit certain content from a Third-Party Source through our Services.
The information we receive when you link or integrate our Services with a Third-Party Source depends on the settings, permissions and privacy policy controlled by that Third-Party Source.
We have no control over any such Third-Party Sources and therefore have no responsibility or liability for the manner in which those Sources are operated, or what Personal Information those Third-Party Sources may collect, and how they may disclose or otherwise use your Personal Information.
2.2	If you interact with us on our Website from, or use features such as plugins, widgets, or other tools made available by, Third-Party Sources, or if you choose to sign up for a paid subscription via your social media profile, we may collect information that you share with us on social media or that such Third-Party Sources share with us. Your interaction and any content sharing with Third-Party Sources such as social media platforms may require or allow those Sources to collect Personal Information from or about you, whether through cookies, registration information, or otherwise. We cannot control what Personal Information Third-Party Sources may collect from you, and how they might use it. We therefore cannot be responsible for any such use or disclosure by those Third-Party Sources of your Personal Information they may have collected. Because you use those Third-Party Sources at your own risk, please review their privacy policies, terms of use and settings for more information about the Personal Information they collect and how they use it.
3. HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION WE COLLECT.
We use the Personal Information we collect from you as a Website Visitor, in order to provide you with more meaningful editorial and advertising content and to offer you relevant products and services, as well as to maintain, protect and improve your overall experience.
3.1	In particular, you may choose (i) to subscribe to any of our electronic newsletters, (ii) to receive "special offers" by EM and its various Third-Party Partners, or (iii) to receive franchise and business opportunity information from selected advertisers, and we will use your information for those purposes, provided that you have given us your consent. You may also choose (iv) to submit questions or comments in response to editorial content on our Website, or (v) to purchase books and related publications offered on our Website, in which case, we will process your information in order to fulfill your purchase order. In each of those instances and in order to process and comply with your request for information or to purchase products or services, you will be asked to provide, and we will collect and store, certain Personal Information such as your email address, zip code, telephone number, and in some instances information about your business. In the case of purchases of books and related publications offered on our Website, we will also collect and store additional information about those purchases, including titles purchased, quantity and dates of purchases, the method of payment, and other information provided such as billing and shipping addresses (if different). By providing the foregoing information to EM and provided that we have your consent, you acknowledge that such information, including your Personal Information, can be used by EM and its various Third-Party Partners to send you promotions and other communications concerning business opportunities, products or services.
3.2	We may, to the extent permitted by law, combine some or all of your Personal Information we collect with data from other sources, including Personal Information of other Website Visitors, which we maintain in aggregate or deidentified form for our Business Purposes, such as to track, and thus determine the extent of, usage of certain content on our Website by demographic factors. Personal Information in its aggregate or deidentified from is information, which can no longer be used to identify a particular individual or that individual’s other Personal Information. Once your Personal Information has been aggregated or deidentified, we will take reasonable measures designed to maintain such Information in its aggregate and deidentified form.
3.3	Payments submitted in connection with the use of our Services must be made by credit, debit card to our third-party payment processor, or through alternate payment methods (such as Google Pay, PayPal, etc.) where such alternate payment methods are made available as an option. Please note that alternate payment methods may be provided by third parties (e.g., Google Pay via Google), subject to that third party’s privacy policy. This Privacy Policy does not apply to such third party’s collection and use of your information. Please review the applicable third party’s privacy policy. With regard to credit and debit card payment, all credit and debit card information is provided directly to our third-party payment processor. EM does not directly access, handle, or store your credit or debit card information. To submit payment using our Services, you will need to provide your name, email address, telephone number, and your credit or debit card number, expiration date, and security code, as well as any such information as necessary to verify the applicable payment. Our payment processor will use your payment-related information in accordance with its privacy policy.
3.4	When you contact EM, we retain a record of your communications to help solve any issues you might be facing, or to maintain a record to assist with legal claims. Provided that we have your consent, we may use your email address to inform you about the products and services offered on our Website.
3.5	We use information collected from cookies, pixels and other tracking technologies to improve your user experience and the overall quality of our Services. You can reset your browser to reject all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. But you need to know that you may not be able to access or use some features and products/services on our Website as a result. For further information about how we use cookies and other tracking technologies, see our separate cookie policy located at https://www.entrepreneur.com/cookie-policy.
3.6	We do not track our Website Visitors across third-party websites, social media platforms, accounts and other Third-Party Sources and thus do not respond to Do Not Track signals. However, some Third-Party Sources do keep track of your browsing activities when they serve you content, which enables them to tailor what content they present to you. If you are visiting Third-Party Sources, certain website browsers may allow you to set the DNT signal on your browser so that those Third-Party Sources know you do not want to be tracked.
4. THE ADVERTISING ON OUR WEBSITE.
Advertising on our Website makes it possible for us to offer you the information and products/services free of charge. We take seriously and make every effort to make sure that such advertising is safe and unobtrusive.
4.1 Collection of Your Personal Information by Advertisers. We may also use persons or entities not affiliated with EM or our Website (collectively, “Third Parties”) to serve ads on our Website or work with those Third Parties to help target ads and offers to you when you browse our Website (collectively, “Third-Party Advertisers” and “Third-Party Ads”).
Certain Third-Party Advertisers may automatically collect certain Personal Information about your access to our Services, including your Internet Protocol (IP) address, your Internet Service Provider (ISP), and the browser you use to visit our Website. Those Third-Party Advertisers do this by using cookies, pixels, and/or other tracking technologies. Personal Information collected may be used, among other things, to deliver advertising targeted to your interests and to better understand your visitation to our Website and usage of our Services and the other websites tracked by those Third-Party Advertisers. For more information about your advertising choices, please see Section 12 below (“Your Rights and Choices about What Personal Information We Collect and Maintain and How We Use that Information”).
Please be advised that, when you link to or visit a Third-Party Advertiser’s website, you will be subject to that Advertiser’s privacy policy and terms of usage. This Privacy Policy does not apply to, and we are not responsible for: (i) the ads or content on, or links to, the websites of any such Third-Party Advertisers or their activities, including without limitation the information they collect or use, and their disclosure practices; and (ii) the cookies, pixels and other tracking technologies that may be included in such Third-Party Ads on our Website. Accordingly, we encourage you to check the privacy policies of those Third-Party Advertisers to learn more about the information they collect or use and their use of cookies, pixels and other tracking technologies.
4.2 Use of Your Personal Information for Analytical Purposes. We use a number of Third-Party Service Providers to help analyze how Website Visitors use our Services (“Analytics Companies”). These Analytics Companies use cookies, pixels and other tracking technologies to collect information such as how often users visit our Services, what features they use on our Website, and what other websites they used prior to coming to our Website. We use the information we get from these Analytics Companies to improve our Website and our Services. This Privacy Policy does not apply to, and we are not responsible for, the cookies, pixels and other tracking technologies used by these Analytics Companies.
4.3 Advertising Networks, Personalized Advertising, Remarketing, and Retargeting. From time to time our Services may use or participate in advertising networks and related advertising services that are managed and provided by Third-Party Advertisers, their advertising agencies, Third-Party technology vendors, and Third-Party research firms, including Google Ads and advertising services provided by Meta (sometimes referred to the Meta “tracking pixel”). These services collect information about your visits to and interactions with our Services and other websites and will use that information to target advertisements for goods and services and to display those advertisements on other websites. The information collected may be associated with your Personal Information.
Advertising networks often gather data about consumers who view advertisements to make inferences about a consumer’s interests and preferences, which enables their computers to deliver advertisements directly targeted to the consumer’s specific interests. This practice is often referred to as “online behavioral advertising.” For example, a third-party advertising network might collect the type of web browser you use, the type of computer operating system you use, the domain name of a website you visit, whether or not you visit specific pages of our Services and other websites, the location of your Internet Service Provider, the date and time of a visit to a website, and other interactions between you and a website.
Through Google Ads, Google uses your Internet searches, cookies, and similar identifiers (e.g., pixel tags) to collect information about your visits to our Website and your interaction with our products and services to generate targeted advertisements to you on other websites that you visit across the Internet. We may also enable and implement Google Analytics Advertising Features on our Services. To opt out of remarketing advertising provided through Google, to customize your ad preferences, or to limit Google’s collection or use this information, visit Google’s Safety Center and Google’s Ad Settings and follow Google’s personalized ad opt-out instructions. Opting out will not affect your use of our Website and Services.
For certain Meta advertising services, Meta Ireland is a Joint Controller (as defined in the GDPR) and that information required under the GDPR related to such processing can be found at https://www.facebook.com/about/privacy. We work with Meta and use their advertising services to measure and improve our ads and marketing efforts, as well as to display more relevant advertising to you. For further information on how Meta Ireland processes your Personal Information, including the legal basis, and the ways to exercise your rights, please visit https://www.facebook.com/about/privacy.
The online advertising industry provides a service through which you may opt out from receiving targeted ads from certain Third-Party Advertisers that participate in self-regulatory programs, including those Advertisers which participate in the Digital Advertising Alliance (DAA) program at https://youradchoices.com/, or who are members of the Network Advertising Initiative; and you can opt out of interest-based advertising by those Advertisers by visiting http://optout.networkadvertising.org/. Please note that by opting out, you may continue to see generic advertising that is not tailored to your specific interests and activities. Additionally, be advised that these industry opt-out methods will not prevent the receipt of interest-based advertising from other companies that do not participate in these programs.
5. DATA RETENTION.
We will retain your Personal Information for as long as reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve the purpose(s), for which that Personal Information was collected and/or processed as outlined in this Privacy Policy, unless a longer retention period is required or allowed by applicable law. When there is no longer such a need, we will delete your Personal Information, or, if this is not possible (for example, because your Personal Information has been stored in back-up archives), then we will securely store your Personal Information and isolate it from any further processing until deletion is possible. We will also delete certain Personal Information we may retain about you upon your request.
6. PRIVACY AND CHOICE.
People have different concerns about privacy. Our goal is to be clear about what information we collect, so that you can make meaningful choices about how that information is used. You may set your browser in its "options" or "preferences" feature, in order to warn you before accepting cookies or to disable all cookies entirely. However, it is important to understand that many of our Services offered and provided on our Website to our Website Visitors may not function properly if your cookies are disabled.
7. WEBSITE VISITORS UNDER THE AGE OF 16.
EM does not knowingly collect or solicit Personal Information from Website Visitors under the age of 16 (“Underage Website Visitors”) or knowingly allow such Website Visitors to register to use our Services without the consent of his/her parent or legal guardian. No Underage Website Visitor is allowed to provide any Personal Information to EM or on our Website. In the event we learn that we have collected Personal Information from and about any Underage Website Visitor without the consent of his/her parent or legal guardian, we will take steps to delete that Information as permitted by law. If you believe that we might have any information from or about an Underage Website Visitor, please contact us at legal@entrepreneur.com or at the address set forth in Section 19 below.
8. THE INFORMATION YOU SHARE WITH OTHERS ON OUR WEBSITE.
You are responsible for all data, feedback, information, images, messages, documents, and other content that is entered into, submitted to, posted on, uploaded to, transmitted, streamed, created, or displayed using, or otherwise provided via, our Website, by you or on your behalf, including participating in forums or discussion boards, by uploading or providing photographs, by submitting product reviews or testimonials, by commenting on blog posts, or by populating a user account or profile (collectively, “User-Generated Content”).
All User-Generated Content is provided at your own risk. We cannot guarantee that the User-Generated Content provided by you or on your behalf will not be viewed by unauthorized persons. You understand that, even after removal, copies of User-Generated Content may nevertheless remain viewable in cached and archived pages and may have been copied or stored by Internet archives and other Service users. We will make User-Generated Content available, including any such publicly available User-Generated Content, to other Website Visitors and to the public, as applicable and at our sole discretion, and will use and disclose any such User-Generated Content for the purpose(s) for which it was provided as indicated at the point of collection. For more information on User-Generated Content, please review our Terms of Use. (See Section 1 above—The Scope of Our Privacy Policy.)
9. UPDATING YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION.
9.1	It is our policy that, whenever you visit our Website, you should be able to access your Personal Information, which is information identifying you such as name, email address, billing information or any other information which can reasonably be expected to identify you. If that Personal Information is incorrect, we try to provide you with ways to update it quickly or to delete it - unless we have to keep that Information for legitimate business or legal purposes, in which case it will be retained for the periods specified in this Privacy Policy. When updating your Personal Information, we may ask you to verify your identity before we can act on your request.
9.2	Where we can provide access to, and correction of, your Personal Information, we will do so at no cost to you, except where it would require a disproportionate effort. If allowed under applicable law, we may reject requests that are unreasonably repetitive, or which require a disproportionate technical effort such as, for example, requests which would be extremely impractical (for instance, requests concerning information residing on backup systems).
10. YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION WE DISCLOSE.
We do not disclose your Personal Information to companies, organizations and individuals outside of EM, unless one of the following circumstances applies:
We will disclose your Personal Information to companies, organizations or individuals outside of EM when we have your opt-in or otherwise consent to do so, including your request for additional information from Third-Party Advertisers or other Third-Party Partners, or if you link to a Third-Party Source.
We will disclose your Personal Information with companies, organizations or individuals outside of EM if we have a good-faith belief that access, use, preservation or disclosure of that Information is reasonably necessary to:
comply with applicable law, regulations, legal process or enforceable governmental request;
enforce any of our applicable Terms of Service, including any potential violations;
detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues; or
protect against harm to the rights, property or safety of our Website Visitors or our Third-Party Partners, as well as the general public and EM as required or permitted by law.
We may disclose your Personal Information to a buyer or other successor of EM, in the event of a merger, divestiture, restructuring, reorganization, dissolution or other sale or transfer of some or all of EM’s assets, whether as a going concern or as part of bankruptcy, liquidation or similar proceeding, in which Personal Information held by EM about our Website Visitors is among the assets transferred
We may disclose the information you provide or we collect when you access your information publicly and with our Third-Party Partners such as Third-Party content providers, Third-Party Advertisers or Non-EM Websites, but in a manner which does not reveal your personally-identifiable information and which is aggregated and anonymized with other user information to show usage of EM and third-party products and services offered on our Website.
11. THE PROTECTION OF YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION.
We have implemented reasonable and appropriate administrative, technical, physical, and organizational security measures designed to help protect against the unauthorized access, unauthorized disclosure, loss, theft, misuse, and/or alteration of information under our control (collectively, “Unauthorized Access”) .
However, we do not and cannot guarantee that Unauthorized Access will not occur. We do not publish all of our security measures online, because this may reduce their effectiveness. Because the storage and communication of information can never be completely secure, you should take steps to protect against any such Unauthorized Access to your device and account by, among other things, choosing a robust password that nobody else knows or can easily guess and by keeping your login and password private.
12. YOUR RIGHTS AND CHOICES ABOUT WHAT PERSONAL INFORMATION WE COLLECT AND MAINTAIN AND HOW WE USE THAT INFORMATION.
12.1 Access to Specific Information and Data Portability Rights.
The purpose of this section of the Privacy Policy is to inform you of your privacy options. Some states within the United States and other jurisdictions outside of the United States provide these options and rights to their consumers.
Depending on the laws applicable to our processing of your Personal Information and the location in which you reside, you may have the ability to exercise the rights listed below and in this section of our Privacy Policy regarding our collection and use of your Personal Information:
The categories of Personal Information we collected about you.
The categories of sources for the Personal Information we collected about you.
Our Business Purpose or Commercial Purpose (defined in Section 13 below) for collecting or selling (also defined in Section 13 below) that Personal Information.
The categories of Third Parties, with whom we share that Personal Information.
The specific pieces of Personal Information we collected about you (also called a Data Portability request).
If we sold (defined in Section 13 below) or disclosed your Personal Information for a Business Purpose, two separate lists disclosing:
sales, identifying the Personal Information categories that each category of recipient purchased; and
disclosures for a Business Purpose, identifying the Personal Information categories that each category of recipient obtained.
12.2 Deletion Request Rights.
Depending on the laws applicable to our processing of your Personal Information and the location in which you reside, you may have the right to request that we delete your Personal Information that we collected from you and retained, subject to certain exceptions. Once we receive and confirm your verifiable consumer request, we will delete (and direct our Third-Party Partners to delete) your Personal Information from our records, unless an exception applies.
We may deny your deletion request if retaining the Personal Information you request to have deleted is necessary for us or our Third-Party Partners to:
Complete the transaction, for which we collected the Personal Information, provide goods or services that you requested, take actions reasonably anticipated within the context of our ongoing business relationship with you, or otherwise perform our contract with you.
Detect security incidents, protect against malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal activity, or prosecute those responsible for such activities.
Debug products, in order to identify and repair errors that impair existing intended functionality.
Exercise free speech, ensure the right of another consumer to exercise his/her free speech rights, or exercise another right provided for by law.
If you had previously provided informed consent, engage in public or peer-reviewed scientific, historical, or statistical research in the public interest, that adheres to all other applicable ethics and privacy laws, when deletion of the Personal Information may likely render impossible or seriously impair the purpose(s) of that research.
Enable solely internal uses that are reasonably aligned with consumer expectations based on your relationship with us.
Comply with applicable law or any legal obligation(s) we may have.
Make other internal and lawful use of that Personal Information that is compatible with the context in which you provided that Information.
12.3 Exercising Access, Data Portability, and Deletion Rights.
To exercise the access, Data Portability, and deletion rights described above, please submit a verifiable consumer request by contacting us and completing the website form at https://www.entrepreneur.com/privacy-preferences or by contacting us at legal@entrepreneur.com.
Only you may make a verifiable consumer request related to your Personal Information. You may also make a verifiable consumer request on behalf of, and as the parent or legal guardian of, a person under the age of 16.
You may only make a verifiable consumer request for access to your Personal Information or Data Portability twice within a 12-month period. The verifiable consumer request must:
Provide sufficient information that allows us to reasonably verify that you are the person, about whom we collected the Personal Information related to your request, or the person making such request is your authorized representative.
Describe your request with sufficient detail that allows us to properly understand, evaluate, and respond to it.
We cannot respond to your request for, or provide you with, your Personal Information if we cannot verify your identity or authority to make the request and confirm that the Personal Information requested relates to you. Making a verifiable consumer request does not require you to create an account with us. We will only use the Personal Information provided in a verifiable consumer request to verify your identity as the person making the request or having your authority to make such a request.
12.4 Response Timing and Format.
We endeavor to respond to a verifiable consumer request within 45 days of its receipt. If we require more time (up to 90 days), we will inform you in writing of the reason(s) why we will need more time and the additional time needed. If you have an account with us, we will deliver our written response to that account. If you do not have an account with us, we will deliver our written response to you electronically to the email address you provide. Any disclosures we provide will only cover the 12-month period preceding our receipt of your verifiable consumer request. The response we provide will also explain any reason(s) why we cannot comply with your request (if applicable). For Data Portability requests, we will select a format for providing you with your Personal Information, which is readily usable, and which should allow you to transmit that Personal Information from one entity to another entity without hindrance.
We do not charge a fee to process or respond to your verifiable consumer requests, unless those requests are excessive, repetitive, or manifestly unfounded. If we determine that any such request warrants a fee, we will tell you why we made that decision and provide you with a cost estimate before completing your request.
13. GLOSSARY OF TERMS.
As used in this Privacy Notice, the terms below shall have the following meanings:
“Business Purpose” means the use of Personal Information for a business’ or Service Provider’s operational purpose(s) or other notified purpose(s), provided that the use of such information is reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve the purpose for which the Personal Information was collected or processed or for another operational purpose that is compatible with the context in which the Personal Information was collected or processed. A Business Purpose includes: (i) auditing interactions with consumers such as counting ad impressions; (ii) security such as protecting against malicious or fraudulent activity; (iii) debugging such as identification and repair of impairments to functionality; (iv) short-term uses not involving disclosure to a Third Party, building a profile about a consumer, or altering a consumer’s experience outside of the transaction for which the personal information was collected; (v) performing services such as maintaining or servicing accounts and processing or fulfilling orders, verifying customer information, or providing advertising or marketing services; (vi) internal research for tech development; and (vi) quality and safety maintenance and verification.
“Commercial Purpose” means the use of Personal Information to induce a person’s commercial or economic interests, such as by inducing a person to buy, subscribe to, or provide goods, services or information.
“Data Portability” means an individual’s right to obtain, move, copy, transfer and reuse his/her Personal Information across different services and IT environments, regardless of the website, platform or other digital property on which that Information was originally collected.
“Sale” means selling, renting, releasing, disclosing, disseminating, making available, transferring, or otherwise communicating orally, in writing, or by electronic or other means, a consumer's Personal Information to a Third Party for valuable consideration or for no consideration, for the Third Party's Commercial Purposes.
“Service Provider” means a for-profit legal entity, to which we disclose a consumer’s Personal Information for processing for a Business Purpose pursuant to a written contract between us and the Service Provider.
14. HANDLING COMPLAINTS FROM OUR WEBSITE VISITORS AND REGULATORY AUTHORITIES.
We regularly review our compliance with this Privacy Policy and with any and all industry-recommended best practices, as well as applicable laws and regulations. If we receive a formal written complaint from you, we will contact you to follow up. This is without prejudice to your right to launch a claim with your local data protection supervisory authority. We work with the appropriate regulatory authorities, including local data protection authorities, to resolve any complaints regarding the transfer of Personal Information that we cannot resolve with you directly.
15. THE PRIVACY RIGHTS OF CALIFORNIA RESIDENTS.
If you are a resident in California, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 ("CCPA"), amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, provides you with specific rights regarding your Personal Information (the “California Privacy Policy”). This section describes the rights that California residents have (collectively, “California Privacy Rights”) and explains how to exercise those rights. For the purposes of this Section 15, "Personal Information" does not include: (i) information that is lawfully made available from federal, state or local government records; (ii) de-identified or aggregated data, which is data which cannot be identified with any individual; or (iii) information excluded from the scope of the CCPA. To be clear, these California Privacy Rights are granted only to the extent that you are a California resident. These Rights are not intended to grant you additional rights, but only your rights under the CCPA to the extent that Entrepreneur Media, LLC (“EM”, “we” or “us”) is considered a “Business” with respect to the applicable Personal Information. (A “Business” under CCPA is an entity, which collects Personal Information and determines how that Information is processed and for what purposes.)
In the event of a conflict between these California Privacy Rights as applied to California residents and our Privacy Policy, of which these Privacy Rights are a part, the California Privacy Rights shall govern and control.
15.1 Your Personal Information We Collect; How We Collect It; How We Use It.
To the extent that our collection, use, and disclosure of Personal Information is addressed by our Privacy Policy (of which these California Privacy Rights are a part), please consult the terms of that Privacy Policy for detailed information about our data practices, including the categories of Personal Information that we collect and disclose as set forth in that Privacy Policy. We may disclose your Personal Information to Service Providers for a Business Purpose, or sell or share your Personal Information to Third Parties, subject to your right to opt out (see Right to Opt Out of Selling or Sharing Your Personal Information, below). Please note that EM does not “sell” any of your Personal Information in exchange for money. However, the term “sell” has a broader meaning under the CCPA than would ordinarily be understood in a non-legal context. The information under this Section 15 of this Privacy Policy (or as addressed under a separate privacy notice, if applicable) describes the entities to which we may disclose your Personal Information.
15.2 Rights to Your Personal Information.
Right to Know What Personal Information We Collect.
As a California consumer, you have the right to know about, and request that we disclose to you, any of your Personal Information that we may have collected, disclosed or otherwise used over the past 12 months. Once we receive and confirm a verifiable request from you (see Exercising Your California Privacy Rights below), and subject to those limitations described below, we will provide you with that Information. Disclose such Information. Your request may include any or all of the following:
The categories of your Personal Information.
The categories of those sources, from which we collected your Personal Information.
The Business Purpose or Commercial Purpose for collecting, selling, or sharing that Personal Information.
The categories of Third Parties, with whom we disclose that Personal Information.
The specific pieces of Personal Information we collected about you (see Data Portability Rights below).
Right to Delete Certain Personal Information We Have Collected.
You have the right to request that we delete any of your Personal Information that we collected from you and retained, subject to certain exceptions. Once we receive and confirm your verifiable consumer request (see Exercising Your Rights, below), we will delete (and direct our Service Providers to delete) your Personal Information from our records, unless an exception applies. However, we may retain Personal Information that has been de-identified or aggregated so as not to disclose your identity. Furthermore, we may deny your deletion request if retaining your Personal Information is necessary for us or our Service Provider(s), in order to perform certain actions set forth under the CCPA, such as detecting security incidents and protecting against fraudulent or illegal activity.
Right to Data Portability concerning Your Personal Information Collected.
You have the right to request a copy of your Personal Information that we have collected and maintained about you for your transmittal or other use as you shall determine in your sole discretion. The CCPA allows you to request your Personal Information from us up to twice during a 12-month period.  We will provide our response in a readily usable (and usually electronic) format.
Right to Correct Your Personal Information We Have Collected.
You have the right to request the correction of any of your Personal Information we maintain about you.
Right to Opt Out of the Selling or Sharing of Your Personal Information We Have Collected.
You have the right to opt out of the sale or sharing of your Personal Information, along with the right to opt in to the sale or sharing of such Information. We do not sell or share the Personal Information of those California residents, who we actually know are less than 16 years of age, unless we receive affirmative authorization (the "right to opt-in") from verifiable parents or guardians of any such underage residents. To our knowledge, we do not sell or share the Personal Information of California residents under 16 years of age.
To exercise the right to opt out, you (or your authorized representative) may submit an opt-out request by contacting us and completing the website form at https://www.entrepreneur.com/privacy-preferences or by contacting us at legal@entrepreneur.com. You may also change your mind and opt back into authorizing EM to sell or share your Personal Information at any time by contacting us at legal@entrepreneur.com or at the address set forth in Section 19 below.
Right to Limit the Use of Your Sensitive Personal Information We Have Collected. We do not knowingly collect information that is considered “sensitive” under California law.
Right to Non-Discrimination.
We will not discriminate against you for exercising any of your California Privacy Rights, including but not limited to:
Denying you goods or services.
Charging you different prices or rates for goods or services, including through granting discounts or other benefits, or imposing penalties.
Providing you with a different level or quality of goods or services.
Suggesting that you may receive a different price or rate for goods or services or a different level or quality of goods or services.
15.3 Data Usage under California’s "Look-Back” Period.
In accordance with California’s Consumer Privacy Act, below is a summary of (i) certain categories of Personal Information we have collected during the preceding 12 months, (ii) those categories of Third-Party Recipients to which we have disclosed that Information, and (iii) the purpose(s) for which such Information was disclosed:
Categories of Personal Information Sold or Shared
Categories of Third-Party Recipients
Purpose
Identifiers
Analytics, marketing, advertising, and remarketing partners and Service Providers
Analytical and targeted advertising purposes
Internet or other electronic network activity information
Analytics, marketing, advertising, and remarketing partners and Service Providers
Analytical and targeted advertising purposes
15.4 California’s "Shine the Light”.
Under California Civil Code Section 1798.83 ("Shine the Light"), California residents each have the right to request in writing from businesses with which they have done business: (a) the names and addresses of all Third Parties (including any of the business’ affiliates which are separate legal entities), to which the business has disclosed the consumer’s Personal Information during the prior calendar year for use by such Third Parties for their direct marketing purposes; and (b) the types of that Personal Information (such as name, email address, and mailing address, and services provided to those residents), which the business has disclosed during that period of time. If you are a California resident, you may request the above Personal Information by contacting us at legal@entrepreneur.com or at the address set forth in Section 19 below. If you do not want your Personal Information disclosed to any Third Party for direct marketing purposes, you may also opt out of such disclosures by contacting us at legal@entrepreneur.com or at the address set forth in Section 19 below.
16. THE PRIVACY RIGHTS OF RESIDENTS OF OTHER U.S. STATES.*
In addition to California, a number of other states within the United States, including Colorado, Connecticut, Montana, Oregon, Texas, Utah and Virginia, have enacted consumer privacy laws that provide consumers residing in those states with specific rights regarding how their Personal Information is used (collectively, the “Other State Privacy Policies”). Consistent with the privacy policies of those other states, EM collects and uses the Personal Information of its Website Visitors, who are residents of those other states, as set forth below.
16.1	Collection. In addition to and consistent with the uses and disclosures described in this Privacy Policy above, we and our suppliers may use and disclose Personal Information as described below:
Personal Information
We collect the following subcategories of personal information:
We collect such personal information for the following purposes:
Identifiers
First and last name, date of birth, physical address, telephone number, cellphone number, email address.
Performing and providing our Services to you, providing customer services, verifying user information, facilitating access to our Services.
Administering your account.
To communicate with you and send you information about our products or services, or to respond to your request for information about our Services.
To send promotional communications about us, to the extent permitted by applicable law.
Sensitive Personal Information
We do not collect this type of information.
Not applicable.
Commercial Information
Records of purchases and engagement with our Services
Performing and providing our Services to you
Protected Classifications and Characteristics under Applicable Law
Age, sex (including gender and gender identity).
You can voluntarily provide us with this information. We may use it for demographic analysis and to better understand our Website Visitors, in order to provide our Services to you.
Internet or other electronic network activity information
IP addresses, log files, login information, and cookies and device information (e.g., online activity such as date and time of accessing our Website, website addresses accessed, the length of website visit).
Analytical purposes, including, without limitation, to help us improve your access to our Services (for example, by remembering your contact and other information when you access or use our Services), to identify repeat Website Visitors, to track how you access and use our Services, to learn when and how our Website Visitors visit our Website and use our Services, to learn which of our Services are most popular, pages are and aren’t, to learn which search terms are used to find our Services, to help display certain information on our Website, and to improve your enjoyment of our Services.
To target advertisements for goods and services and to display those advertisements on other websites.
To administer our Website and its servers, to generate statistical information, to monitor and analyze Services traffic and usage patterns, to monitor and help prevent fraud, to investigate complaints and violations of our policies, and to improve our Services.
Approximate Geolocation
Physical address; IP address, work / business address, state, region.
To communicate with you and send you information about our products or services, or to respond to your request for information or products and services.
To send you promotional communications about us and our Services, to the extent permitted by law.
Professional or employment-related information
Business contact information, including, but not limited to, job title, place of employment, business phone number, business address.
Performing and providing our Services, including, without limitation, providing customer services, verifying user information, facilitating access to our Website and our Services.
Administering your account.
Communicating with users who have requested support, information, or Services.
To send you promotional communications about us and our Services, to the extent permitted by law.
Audio, electronic, visual, or similar information
We do not collect this type of information.
Not applicable.
Inferences from other personal information
Preferences, behaviors, characteristics (including, for example, age gender, race, and marital status), and similar information.
Providing our Services, including, without limitation, providing customer services, verifying user information, facilitating access to our Website and our Services.
Administering your account.
Analytical purposes to analyze the use of, and to enhance our, Services.
To develop and create aggregated and/or deidentified data.
No Sensitive Personal Information. We do not knowingly collect information that is considered “sensitive” under applicable law.
16.2	Sources. Consistent with this Privacy Policy above, we collect certain categories of Personal Information directly from you and, in some circumstances, Third Parties. The categories of sources that we collect Personal Information from in the prior 12 months include the following:
Our Third-Party Partners;
Third-Party online advertising networks;
Our affiliated and related companies;
Non-EM Websites and mobile applications (e.g., websites that share information with us or our Third-Party Partners);
Third-Party social media companies;
Our Services; and
Your communications with us.
16.3 Rights. Applicable laws in your jurisdiction may grant you certain rights—subject to all applicable limitations, exemptions, or exceptions—regarding our collection and use of your personal information. In addition to those rights set forth above in this Privacy Policy, these rights may include, to the extent applicable and to the extent granted under applicable law:
The right to opt out of the automated profiling of your Personal Information in furtherance of decisions that produce legal or similarly significant effects concerning you;
The right to opt-out of targeted advertising and the sharing of Personal Information that is shared for cross-contextual behavioral advertising purposes;
The right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of your Personal Information;
The right to limit our processing (or completely opt-out, if allowed under applicable law) of sensitive personal information to what is necessary;
The right to not be discriminated against due to your exercise of your rights under applicable law. We do not discriminate against users for exercising the rights granted to them under applicable law;
The right to request that we delete your Personal Information that we have collected from or about you and have retained, subject to certain exceptions (such as if and to the extent we are required to retain that information under applicable law);
The right to request that we disclose (i) the Personal Information that we have collected and maintained from or about you over the past 12 months, (ii) the sources from which that Information was collected, (iii) the purposes for which that Information was collected, (iv) the categories of such Information shared with Third Parties, and (v) the categories of Third Parties with which that Information was shared;
The right to request a copy of your Personal Information that we have collected and maintained about you; and
The right to request the correction of any of your Personal Information we maintain about you.
The above rights are only exercisable by you where the applicable law grants you the rights being exerted and where no exception or exemption under applicable law applies. You may also have a registered agent (if and only as permitted under applicable law) that you authorize to act on your behalf. If you have a registered agent act on your behalf, we have the right to authenticate such agent’s authority to act. To exercise the rights described herein (only to the extent applicable), you may submit a verifiable request to us using the methods set forth in this Privacy Policy.
16.4	Selling and Sharing. We do not sell your Personal Information as the concept of “selling” is traditionally understood as being the exchange of something for money. However, we sell your Personal Information to, and share your Personal Information with, Third Parties for the purpose of cross-contextual behavioral advertising purposes (e.g., targeted advertising and remarketing). Applicable U.S. state data protection laws hold such disclosures and sharing to be considered “selling” or “sharing”.
You have the right to opt out of the selling or sharing of your Personal Information as described herein. You may exercise this right to opt out by contacting us by contacting us and completing the website form at https://www.entrepreneur.com/privacy-preferences or by contacting us at legal@entrepreneur.com.
We do not knowingly sell or share the Personal Information of anyone under the age of 16 years old.
* The general Privacy Policy set forth in Sections 1-14 above is intended to apply to and supplement the Other State Privacy Policies in this Section 16, except if and to the extent of a conflict or contradiction between the two such Privacy Policies, in which case the Other State Privacy Policies shall control as relate to the residents of those states to which those Privacy Policies apply.
17. EXERCISING YOUR PRIVACY RIGHTS.
To exercise the rights described in our general Privacy Policy (Sections 1-14) or in the California Privacy Policy (Section 15) or Other State Privacy Policies (Section 16), please contact us and complete the website form at https://www.entrepreneur.com/privacy-preferences or contact us at legal@entrepreneur.com.
After submitting a request, we will take steps to verify your identity, in order for us to properly respond and confirm that it is not a fraudulent request. In order to verify your identity, we will ask, at a minimum, that you provide your name and email address, so that we can match this information with the information existing in our systems. If you are a print subscriber, we may also require your mailing address to find you in our systems. When providing us with this information, you represent and affirm that all information provided is true and accurate.
17.2 EM will send you a verification email to verify that you have access to the email address you have provided. Then, as required by the applicable law, EM will use this information to verify your identity to a reasonable or reasonably high degree of certainty, depending on the request. Depending on how you submit the request, if we are able to verify that you have access to the email address you provided, or if we are able to match at least two pieces of personal information to the personal information that we may retain of you, we will honor your Right to Know request and in most cases, your Right to Delete and Right to Correct requests. If we are able to match at least three pieces of personal information to the Personal Information that we may retain of you, we will honor your Right to Know (Data Portability / Specific Pieces of Personal Information) requests, and in situations where we determined that a reasonably high degree of certainty was more appropriate, your Right to Delete and Right to Correct requests. If we are unable to verify your identity, we will let you know that we are unable to fulfill your request.
17.3 Only you, or an agent legally authorized to act on your behalf, may make a verifiable request related to your Personal Information. If you are making a request as the authorized agent of a California consumer, we will ask you also submit reliable proof that you have been authorized in writing by the consumer to act on such consumer's behalf.
17.4 We will make every effort to respond to your request within 45 days from when you contacted us. If you are a California consumer and your request requires more time for a response, California law allows us up to 90 days to respond. We will still contact you within 45 days from when you contacted us to let you know we need more time to respond. If we deny your request, you can appeal such denial by contacting us at legal@entrepreneur.com or at the address set forth in Section 19 below. If the appeal is denied, you may submit a complaint to the applicable government regulator or authority in the jurisdiction in which you are located (which, for U.S. residents, includes the state Attorney General in the state in which you reside).
18. PRIVACY POLICY REVISIONS AND UPDATES.
Our Privacy Policy may be revised from time to time, in which case the Privacy Policy you view will be the most current version and the date of the latest such revision will be identified at the beginning of this Privacy Policy. We ask you to periodically review our Privacy Policy to learn of any revisions and updates to our privacy practices. Your continued use of our Website following the posting of changes to our Privacy Policy means that you have accepted those revisions and updates.
19. CONTACTING US.
If you wish to exercise your privacy rights relating to your Personal information we collect and/or use, please contact us at the website or email address set forth in Sections 12.3 or 17.1 above.
For all other questions, concerns or suggestions about this Privacy Policy, you may contact us at legal@entrepreneur.com or at the following mailing address:
Entrepreneur Media, LLC
Attn.: Privacy Policy Issues
1651 East Fourth Street
Suite 125
Santa Ana, Ca 92701
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC