Top 20 Best Xbox Games - August 2025 | CNET - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechGaming Xbox
The 20 Best Xbox Games Right Now
Whether you're gaming on an Xbox One, Xbox Series X, Xbox Series S or streaming Xbox Cloud Gaming, CNET's experts have rounded up the best Xbox games for you in 2025.
Tyler Graham Writer Tyler is a writer under CNET's home energy and utilities category. He came to CNET straight out of college, where he graduated from Seton Hall with a bachelor's degree in journalism. For the past seven months, Tyler has attended a White House press conference, participated in energy product testing at CNET's testing labs in Louisville, Kentucky, and written one of CNET Energy's top-performing news articles, on federal solar policy. Not bad for a newbie.
When Tyler's not asking questions or doing research for his next assignment, you can find him in his home state of New Jersey, kicking back with a bagel and watching an action flick or playing a new video game.
You can reach him at tgraham@cnet.com. Expertise Community solar, state solar policy, solar cost and accessibility, renewable energy, electric vehicles, video games, home internet for gaming.
See full bio
Tyler Graham
Aug. 16, 2025
6:29 a.m. PT 20 min read
343 Industries
Over the past two decades, Microsoft has turned the Xbox brand into a veritable juggernaut in the console gaming world. The Xbox Series X and Series S, the combined fourth generation of the Xbox, have sold over 21 million units. The Xbox One, which was still supported until 2023, sold over 58 million units worldwide.As Microsoft shifts its focus toward supporting console and PC gamers alike with the Game Pass subscription service, there's never been a larger ecosystem of Xbox consoles to choose from.The future of the Xbox seems more than ever to rest in the hands of game developers, as original intellectual properties like Scorn and Pentiment become just as important as fan-favorite franchises such as Halo and Gears of War. If more of this year's Xbox exclusives follow in the footsteps of 2024 releases like Senua's Saga: Hellblade 2 and Indiana Jones and the Great Circle, that future is sure to be bright.CNET curated this list of the best games you can buy right now, including entries for Xbox One, Xbox Series X and S and PC Game Pass.Best Xbox Series X/S Games of August 2025
Bethesda
Doom: The Dark Ages
In this prequel to 2016's reboot of the Doom franchise, you'll discover why exactly the only thing the demons fear is the Doom Slayer. Doom: The Dark Ages is a planet-hopping adventure that embraces heavy metal tropes by going full medieval.The Doom Slayer blasts through the feudal fantasy planet Argent D'Nur, the circles of hell and realms beyond human comprehension in order to stop the demon prince Ahzrak from overrunning mankind. Along the way, you'll pick up a new arsenal of weapons including bone shrapnel launchers, spike-firing rifles and more.A chainsaw-bladed shield slices through enemies and parries crushing blows, while the inclusion of dedicated melee weapons (including a massive flail and mace) changes the flow of combat. Players are encouraged to get up close and personal with demons instead of kiting around the outside of arenas in Doom: The Dark Ages.This game isn't Doom 2016 or Doom Eternal, but it isn't trying to be. It's an entirely new power fantasy that makes the player feel like a fast-moving tank as they cut a swath through the battlefield.Release Date: May 15, 2025Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 5, PCGenre: Medieval first-person shooter with a rhythmic flow of combatDeveloper: id Software
$65 at Amazon
$70 at Best Buy
Obsidian Entertainment
Avowed
Obsidian Entertainment's 2025 fantasy game, Avowed, is a choice-filled first-person action RPG that takes place in the same universe as the studio's popular isometric RPG Pillars of Eternity. The world of Eora is full of thrills and danger that's perfect for newcomers and veterans alike.The studio's "depth over breadth" mentality has once again bred a game that plays out differently for each player. As an envoy from the Aedyr Empire, you arrive in the Living Lands to root out the source of an illness known as the "dream scourge." But after being struck down by rebels and revived by a mysterious deity, players are free to carry on however they please. You can continue serving the empire, join the rebels or solve the plague. The world is your oyster.If you just want to start beating down on some reptilian Xaurips, you'll have a blast with that too. Avowed lets players engage in classic first-person hack-and-slash gameplay, but you aren't limited to swordfighting. Bows, spells and rudimentary firearms augment your arsenal, and you can choose to specialize in certain skill trees to become a powerful wizard, a stealthy ranger or something else entirely.If you enjoy other RPGs from developer Obsidian Entertainment, such as Fallout: New Vegas or The Outer Worlds, it's well worth giving Avowed a try. This game includes the same multi-solution, morally complex problems that have made other Obsidian games fan-favorites many years after they were released.Release Date: Feb. 13, 2025Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: High fantasy first-person action RPGDeveloper: Obsidian Entertainment
$70 at Amazon
Sandfall Interactive
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Sandfall Interactive's inaugural release is oozing with panache, infused with the developer's French roots. Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 revolutionizes turn-based RPG combat while telling a story about the importance of human connection in the face of mortality.In the dark fantasy world of Clair Obscur, mankind is threatened by the mysterious Paintress. This supernatural being erases every person at or above a certain age once every year -- and the number keeps getting lower. The response to the annual painting is an annual expedition, where enterprising adventurers set off to discover a way to defeat the Paintress and prevent her from wiping out the remaining human population.This game became an instant hit for a reason. The Belle Epoque-inspired world is a cultural celebration that clashes with the somber narrative that underlines your adventure. The integration of parrying into turn-based combat is fresh and engaging, straddling the line between RPG and ARPG.Whether you're a fan of Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest, other turn-based battling juggernauts or you just enjoy a Dark Souls-esque world in decay, Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 will tug at your heartstrings 'til the very end. Take up your arms for those who come after.Release Date: April 24, 2025Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PlayStation 5, PCGenre: Dark fantasy narrative epic with turn-based combat and real time parry mechanicsDeveloper: Sandfall Interactive
$50 at Amazon
$50 at Best Buy
Compulsion Games
South of Midnight
There aren't many games that pay homage to the mythology and cultural makeup of the American South, and there are even fewer games that do so as beautifully as South of Midnight, which wows with its stunning pseudo-stop motion animation-like visual style.In this third-person action adventure, players take on the role of a Weaver named Hazel. Weavers possess an innate magical ability to mend the spirits of damaged people and creatures from folklore. In this world, trauma takes on a dangerous physical manifestation -- Stigma -- that taints the land. It's up to Hazel to help the folks she runs into on her journey looking for a place to call home.Being a Weaver is dangerous, though, and players will engage in frenetic hack-and-slash combat as they fight to defeat their enemies. Hazel grows stronger throughout the game as she becomes imbued with new abilities and combat and health upgrades. Eventually, players will get a chance to cleanse mythical creatures of their Stigma affliction in key boss fights throughout the world.South of Midnight presents a land rife with broken people and bad memories, but focuses more on the healing than the pain. Hazel's story is a hopeful one about finding acceptance and belonging in a new place -- maybe that's what we all need right now.Release Date: April 8, 2025Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Third-person action-adventure game with hack-and-slash and spellslinging combatDeveloper: Compulsion Games
$40 at Amazon
Bethesda Game Studios
Starfield
Starfield had a lot of gamers waiting with bated breath: This was Bethesda Game Studios' first new game world in well over a decade. Depicting a gritty and industrial version of humanity's future amid the stars, the game sees the player booted from their simple mining job to join a planet-hopping adventure racing the mysterious Starborn to discover important artifacts scattered around the universe.Starfield isn't the most revolutionary RPG, but it's comfort food for anyone familiar with Bethesda's typical game design. There are many disparate side quest lines to find and complete for the universe's competing factions, and along the way you'll shoot, loot and spec skill points into different perks to make yourself a more efficient killer.I loved being able to truly ally myself with the Crimson Fleet, an unrepentant gang of marauders who lie, cheat, steal and kill, without being railroaded into betraying them and dismantling the criminal organization. There are certainly some characters lacking in-depth and the planetside procedurally generated exploration wears thin fast, but anyone looking for a solid sci-fi first-person looter shooter will find themself at home in Starfield's galaxy.Release Date: Sept. 6, 2023Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Sci-fi RPG looter shooterDeveloper: Bethesda Game Studios
$36 at Amazon
$49 at Best Buy
$70 at Target
Undead Labs
State of Decay 2: Juggernaut Edition
State of Decay 2 may have looked like just another zombie survival game when it was released in May 2018. Instead, players were treated to an immersive roleplaying game that let them define a community attempting to survive and thrive in a post-apocalyptic world ruled by the undead. Whether that success hinged upon establishing law and order, creating a burgeoning trade empire or carving out a vicious empire was up to you.In a way, State of Decay 2 has become something akin to zombie Sims: it's a forever game, one where players can build influence across a single save file for as long as they want. When that becomes boring, completing the Legacy Goal allows you to find your favorite (living) survivors in other save files, creating some sense of a living, breathing world and connective tissue between the smaller maps.I enjoy stockpiling weapons and becoming the region's new sheriff, wiping out raider gangs and hacking away at the Plague Hearts, spreading terrifying diseased undead across Drucker County. You could just as easily oppress nearby settlements or build a strong isolationist fortress to keep strangers out. If you're interested in the logistics behind keeping a community standing, State of Decay 2 has that covered.Release Date: May 18, 2018Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Zombie third-person shooter and community management simDeveloper: Undead Labs
See at Amazon
343 Industries
Halo Infinite
Halo 5: Guardians was a real downer, leaving our burly green space marine in a bit of a bind as he was forced to hunt down his longtime AI companion Cortana as she grew increasingly rampant. Halo Infinite, released in December 2021, was an emotional reset. When Master Chief crash lands on a new Halo ring, he needs to make peace with his past as he moves quickly to save scattered squads of USMC marines trapped by the Banished war band of ex-Covenant fighters.New tools and returning vehicles help players traverse the first open-world Halo game, as Master Chief displays his mastery of hefty Choppers, glass cannon Wasps and more. The best addition to the game is the Grappleshot, a grappling hook that allows Chief to reach advantageous high ground, steal Banished vehicles, grab weapons off the ground and quickly close the gap between himself and his enemies.Most importantly, Halo Infinite is a reminder that Master Chief isn't an emotionless rogue asset. He's a symbol of hope that will put his life on the line if it means saving even one more human being. Halo 5 may have done the hero dirty, but Halo Infinite is a reminder of what makes him so aspirational. Beyond the story, there's a decent range of multiplayer modes, and the community has embraced the Forge creative tools to construct evocative maps and wacky experiences.Release Date: Dec. 8, 2021Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Open world sci-fi FPSDeveloper: 343 Industries
$35 at Amazon
$60 at Best Buy
Bethesda Game Studios
Fallout 76
When it was released on the Xbox One in October 2018, Fallout 76 -- Bethesda's open-world multiplayer entry in the franchise -- was a mess. There's no sugarcoating it: Post-apocalyptic Appalachia was broken and rife with game-breaking bugs. Like No Man's Sky and Cyberpunk 2077, this game proves that years of TLC can transform a dud into an all-time great.Today, Fallout 76 is one of the best cooperative massively multiplayer looter shooters on the market. A consistent update cycle has reproduced locales that longtime Fallout fans will be thrilled to see, including a Nuka World-themed show operating out of the Ash Heap and a small slice of Fallout 3's cutthroat city of Pitt.The game doesn't coast on nostalgia; there's a chance to clean house in a post-war Atlantic City and become a ghoul in the heavily irradiated Skyline Valley, adding extra depth to the retro-futuristic Americana of the Fallout universe. Whether you want to create the strongest build to dominate public events, build your own settlement or drop a nuke on other players, Fallout 76 is the only way to explore this iconic world with your friends.Release Date: Oct. 23, 2018Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Multiplayer FPS looter shooter with RPG elementsDeveloper: Bethesda Game Studios, Battlecry Studios
$10 at Amazon
Ninja Theory
Senua's Saga: Hellblade 2
Rally Senua's fighting spirit once more as she fights to free her people from vicious slavers in Senua's Saga: Hellblade 2, a psychological horror third-person action game released in May 2024. A protagonist fighting on three fronts, Senua takes on Norse legends, sees the worst of humanity and fights a war within as she grapples with psychosis.Ninja Theory's careful attention to the mythologies borrowed for the game results in a bleak and harrowing world, where giants and draugr terrorize and massacre villages wherever they roam. There are no heroes in Hellblade, only broken people like Senua trying their best to heal their wounds and break toxic cycles perpetuated by their ancestors.Players will engage in cleaving through enemies in weighty third-person sword combat, but Senua can't solve her problems with violence. Monsters may need to be put down, but they aren't altogether unsympathetic once their origins are revealed. It's up to the player to guide Senua down a better path, for both her people and for herself.Release Date: May 21, 2024Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Psychological horror and third-person action adventureDeveloper: Ninja Theory
$50 at Amazon
Rare
Sea of Thieves
Rare's March 2018 release invited players to weigh anchor and loot, pillage and treasure hunt to their heart's content. In Sea of Thieves, players are free to carve their own stories out of the open world, braving the seas and supernatural threats hiding throughout the game's many islands. And just when you've hit the mother lode, it's quite likely the game will become a disorienting moshpit of gunpowder and clashing steel as other opportunists converge on your location.That player-versus-player-versus-enemy chaos is what Sea of Thieves was built on, but you're able to choose to play without other pirates sailing around looking to attack you, if that's not the type of experience you're looking for. There's a wealth of tailored story experiences that you can engage with, too, leading to climactic battles against ghost ships or krakens -- one crossover even has players working alongside Jack Sparrow from Pirates of the Caribbean.The Sea of Thieves is ever restless, and there's always something lurking beneath the surface looking to claim your life. It's also a never-ending cartoonish caper for treasure and adventure that encourages you to get in touch with your inner swashbuckler.Release Date: March 20, 2018Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Open world pirate adventureDeveloper: Rare
$30 at Amazon
Mojang Studios
Minecraft
Ever since Microsoft acquired Mojang Studios in September 2014, Minecraft has been an ever-present staple of the Xbox ecosystem. A marvel in procedurally generated worldbuilding even by today's standards, Minecraft allows players to mine, build, trade and adventure to their heart's content before taking on epic bosses like the Enderdragon, the Wither or the Warden.Continual support for Minecraft has added new items, biomes and mobs each year since its original release way back in 2009. Recent late-game additions have given longtime players new goals to achieve, as they must now endeavor to craft netherite tools and armor to take on the deep dark strongholds that lay waiting in the caves beneath the overworld.Budding creatives also have plenty of ways to decorate after hunting down different types of wood and stone, farming hay, uncovering archaeological finds and more. When players grow tired of the normal Minecraft experience, texture packs and adventure maps ensure that their journey will continue long after they conquer their first world.Release Date: Nov. 18, 2011Genre: Creative block-based survival adventurePlatforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCDeveloper: Mojang Studios
$5 at Amazon
Playground Games
Forza Horizon 5
The most recent installment in Microsoft's premier racing franchise, Forza Horizon 5 took fans to a sunny, carefree Mexican playground in November 2021. Players are able to drive their favorite vehicles through a wealth of new exotic environments, including tropical jungles, arid deserts and winding canyons.Each week, the map evolves as the map cycles through wild weather events, like dust or tropical storms. If you're an avid explorer, there are events, challenges, collectibles and rewards constantly rotating into the open world -- and you'll be able to engage in all of that content with your friends by your side.If you're interested in a more linear racing experience, the Horizon Arcade offers new challenges that you can spin up without sitting through a loading screen or lobby -- on the Xbox Series X, Forza Horizon 5 offers a seamless driving experience for anyone who wants to hit the road.Release Date: Nov. 1, 2021Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Open world racing adventureDeveloper: Playground Games
$51 at Amazon
$60 at Best Buy
Obsidian Entertainment
Grounded
Get ready to step into the scariest possible version of Honey, I Shrunk the Kids surviving the horrors lurking in a suburban backyard in this September 2022 release. Up to four players can play as the amnesiac children Pete, Max, Willow and Hoops as they brave new dangers, collect vital resources and start to uncover the shady corporate plot behind sci-fi shrinking tech.Grounded is a twist on the classic survival genre -- instead of chopping down trees, you're cleaving titanic blades of grass; instead of hunting and killing farm animals, you're grilling up some aphids. Creating an imminent sense of danger out of insects we wouldn't think twice about during our day-to-day routines is charming and alluring, placing the game a cut above the standard fare.Obsidian Entertainment also made sure Grounded is as accessible to as many gamers as possible. Wolf spiders and mantids are some of the apex predators in these wilds, and they are absolutely horrific to run into. Arachnophobia mode turns spiders into blobbish creatures that aren't nearly as terrifying to do battle with. It's easy for anybody to shrink down and take on the backyard, tailoring just how scary they want their insect opponents to be.Release Date: Sept. 27, 2022Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Campy sci-fi nature survivalDeveloper: Obsidian Entertainment
$40 at Amazon
Activision
Call of Duty: Black Ops 6
Treyarch's newest entry in the Call of Duty franchise is one of its best outings in recent years: It's a return to a more arcade-like, free-moving FPS fun that reveres previous entries in the series. Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 follows Frank Woods and his fresh team of covert operatives as they go on the lam, framed by an enemy within the CIA. Trusting no one but themselves, everyone on the other side of the gun is a potential enemy -- whether they stand on foreign or domestic soil.Outside of the spy thriller campaign, multiplayer gunplay feels like it hearkens back to the glory days of Black Ops and Black Ops 2, while the new Modern Warfare weapon attachment system and innovative "omnimovement" modernizes the formula. The zombies experience is more akin to how it was in Cold War than World at War, but Treyarch's trademark long easter eggs have returned to further the Dark Aether storyline.Whether you're a PvE, PvP or co-op gamer, one of the three distinct game modes bundled up in the Black Ops 6 experience will probably appeal to you. The Call of Duty franchise is tightly tuned to welcome FPS first timers and veterans alike, and the newest entry is still the go-to way to squeeze in a few 10-minute matches of fast-paced run-and-gun action.Release Date: Oct. 25, 2024Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Arcade FPS with conspiracy thriller narrativeDeveloper: Treyarch, Raven Software
$60 at Amazon
$70 at Target
Tango Gameworks
Hi-Fi Rush
Released in January 2023, Hi-Fi Rush is a rhythmic hack-and-slash adventure marching to the beat of its own drum. Players step into the shoes of Chai, whose cybernetic limb replacement procedure goes wrong when his music player is embedded in his chest -- unlocking a musical connection with the world. When the Vandelay Technologies corporation labels Chai a defect, he has to fight for his life and uncover a deeper conspiracy unfolding behind the scenes.In order to succeed, players need to play to the beat, as every action taken in combat is performed alongside the game's OST. Correctly timed button presses increase the damage of Chai's attacks, and enemies can be parried if they're blocked just right: Instead of button mashing, fights become a carefully practiced dance with the AI opponents.Fast-paced platforming sections and challenging boss battles round out the normal gameplay loop. Each level -- a separate division of Vandelay Technologies -- features songs based on distinct musical genres, giving them a distinctive and refreshing identity. Hi-Fi Rush never overstays its welcome, packing interesting content into a tight 10-ish-hour narrative.Release Date: Jan. 25, 2023Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Rhythmic hack-and-slash game with platforming sectionsDeveloper: Tango Gameworks
$30 at Amazon
Ebb Software
Scorn
Inspired by the works of H.R. Giger and Zdzislaw Beksinski, Scorn, released in October 2022, is a survival horror adventure spanning a vast biomechanical nightmare. Following in the narrative footsteps of FromSoftware, players are given only vague insights into the story and world around them. In the aftermath of a devastating war, only wastelands like the Crater and automated superstructures like the Assembly are left behind.The unnamed protagonist is infected by a parasite -- which is a blessing and a curse, as it provides weapons and tools even as it roots deeper into the body. A long, arduous journey to the temple Polis is the only way to have a chance to remove the parasite, but there are many other denizens of the planet who will stand in your way.Scorn features one of the most interesting inventory-management systems of any survival horror game. While most games in the genre expect the player to carefully manage their ammunition, Scorn demands that you manage your healing, even between deaths. Dropped into a completely alien world with little in the way of supplies, navigating the world of Scorn can become a truly nail-biting experience.Release Date: Oct. 14, 2022Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Atmospheric alien world explorer and survival horrorDeveloper: Ebb Software
See at Xbox
The Coalition
Gears 5
Locust-killing action made a triumphant return with Gears 5, released in September 2019. The latest entry in the Gears of War franchise shifted the focus from JD Fenix to Kait Diaz, promising answers to longstanding questions regarding the Locusts' origins. With the Swarm united under a new leader, it's time to reactivate the Hammer of Dawn superweapon to defend humanity once more.The narrative was front and center this time around, but there was certainly no lack of brutal shoot-and-slash action. After the campaign is finished, players can keep blasting away at the Locust threat in the Horde mode and the new Escape game mode, facing wave after wave of enemies with up to two friends.Competitive multiplayer also returns, including modes such as team deathmatch and king of the hill. Gears veterans stomp out player-versus-player lobbies, but the new arcade mode, described as a "hero-shooter lite," is a great starting point for new or casual gamers. No matter how familiar you are with the Gears of War franchise, Gears 5 has a multiplayer experience tailored for you.Release Date: Sept. 6, 2019Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Action-packed third-person horde shooterDeveloper: The Coalition
$13 at Amazon
Iron Gate Studio
Valheim
Initially released in February 2021 for PC gamers, Xbox One and Xbox Series X players first got their chance to step into the 10th realm back in March 2023. In Valheim, you play as a mighty viking, but there's a catch -- you're dead right off the rip. Instead of drinking mead in Valhalla, you find yourself in Valheim, the Norse purgatory.Now, you and up to nine other vikings have to work together to build a stronghold to survive this strange realm and ultimately defeat seven boss enemies to earn Odin's favor. The odds might seem stacked against you, but there's a rich crafting system to create buildings, tools, weapons and boats to traverse the different biomes found across the procedurally generated map.With time, teamwork and a little elbow grease, you'll find that a small team of vikings is prepared enough to challenge even the likes of giants. Valheim has an addictive gameplay loop consisting of amassing strength through gathering materials, leveling skills through satisfying melee and ranged combat and then taking on the main challenges when you're ready -- just when you think you're ready to step away, the cycle drags you back in.Release Date: Feb. 2, 2021Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Multiplayer viking survival adventureDeveloper: Iron Gate Studio
See at Xbox
Remedy Entertainment
Quantum Break
Remedy might be better known for Alan Wake and Control, but its April 2016 release was an altogether different experiment in pushing the boundaries of video game storytelling. Players take on the role of Jack Joyce, a man with time-manipulation powers who is trying to stop the coming of the End of Time. But the catch is that his ex-best friend Paul Serene is standing in his way -- with superpowers of his own and an entire private military at his beck and call.Quantum Break mixes bog-standard third-person cover shooter gameplay with time-manipulation abilities, allowing the player to close the distance against enemies, stop bullets and more. Outside of combat, these powers are utilized to solve puzzles and find extra scraps of story, remaining a key system to engage with for anyone looking to hunt down all of the extra lore.The thing that sets Quantum Break apart from any other video game is the television tie-in: At the end of every act, an interactive TV episode would play before you got back to running and gunning in Joyce's shoes, and it changed depending on which choices you made in-game. A completely novel concept (even predating Black Mirror's Bandersnatch), the Quantum Break show featured electric performances from the likes of Shawn Ashmore, Aidan Gillen and the late, great Lance Reddick.The mix of mediums was released to mixed critical results, but there's no other game that has tried to do what this one has in the years following its release.Release Date: April 5, 2016Platforms: Xbox One, Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Superpowered third-person shooterDeveloper: Remedy Entertainment
$36 at Walmart
$28 at Amazon
MachineGames
Indiana Jones and the Great Circle
The folks at MachineGames are best known for their contributions to the Wolfenstein franchise, which is why they were the perfect people to handle Hollywood's favorite Nazi-punching adventurer. Indiana Jones and the Great Circle is a first-person exploration game packed full of combat and puzzle-solving, immersing players in the vibrant 1930s world our pulp hero inhabits. Donning his iconic fedora and whip, players step into Indy's shoes after a break-in at Marshall College begins to unravel a deeper conspiracy. What follows is a jet-setting journey that'll have you laying out fascists in Vatican City, Giza, Machu Picchu and more dangerous locales as the brilliant archaeologist pieces together the meaning of the Great Circle.Indiana Jones and the Great Circle makes you feel like you're in control of a Spielberg movie, featuring no small number of fun and lovable side characters, puzzles that click perfectly into place and cosmic comeuppance for villains meddling with supernatural forces they don't understand. The game takes pains to include the worldly, emotional grounding that makes fans root for Indy, too. The game takes place between Raiders of the Lost Ark and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, and players will grieve alongside our hero as he runs from his relationship with Marion Ravenwood to his next adventure. Indiana Jones and the Great Circle is a fantastic character study for the titular character -- but it's also just a great cinematic romp around with major action setpieces to experience.Release Date: Dec. 9, 2024Platforms: Xbox Series X/S, PCGenre: Sneaky first-person action adventureDeveloper: MachineGames
$107 at Amazon
Xbox game FAQs
Which Xbox games are coming out?
Microsoft has a slate of new and returning series for 2025 and beyond, with games like Gears of War E-Day and State of Decay 3 set to be released for the Xbox console ecosystem. There are also big new third-party games coming, including Borderlands 4 and Dying Light: The Beast.
Are they still releasing Xbox One games?
No. Microsoft announced in June 2023 that there would be no new first-party releases for the Xbox One, although there are still many games that made this list that are available to play on the console.
Do Xbox One games play better on Xbox Series X?
The Xbox Series X and S are backward-compatible with many Xbox One games. These games often have a higher frame rate, auto HDR and improved screen resolution when played on the Xbox Series X.
What is the bestselling Xbox game in 2024?
According to the research group Circana, the bestselling Xbox game of the year in the US is EA Sports College Football 25.
What is the best Xbox game?
Picking out the best Xbox Series X/S game is subjective and answers will vary according to each gamer's preferences. The author of this article, however, decided that Halo Infinite was the best game on the Xbox overall. The game shows the utmost respect for Xbox's unofficial mascot, Master Chief, sending him on an adventure in an action-packed open world filled with more weapons, tools and vehicles than any previous entry in the Halo franchise.
Recent updates to the listJanuary 2025: Added Indiana Jones and the Great CircleAugust 2025: Added Doom: The Dark Ages, Avowed, Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 and South of Midnight.How we determined CNET's best Xbox gamesWhen creating this list of best Xbox games, we factored in how unique and enjoyable these games are for most players. We evaluated criteria including graphical quality, innovative gameplay mechanics and compelling narratives. The picks we made cover a variety of genres from fantasy to retro platformers to shooters to racing games, and while we favored console-exclusive games you won't find on PlayStation, Switch or PC, we also included some can't-miss games that appear on multiple platforms. If you're looking for help choosing your next game, CNET's top Xbox list is a good place to start narrowing your choices.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.