Law - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Politics
Law
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Luigi Mangione's federal judge orders DOJ to stop making prejudicial pretrial statements after Trump retweets
4 min read
Diddy's kids, mom, and pals come out in force to plead for leniency: 'Please let my father out of jail!'
7 min read
Diddy cites his 'extraordinary life' in long shot bid for freedom next month
Sean "Diddy" Combs is hoping to be sprung at next month's sentencing.
A Manhattan jury convicted the hip-hop mogul of 2 prostitution-related counts.
3 min read
Charlie Javice says she can't fly, requests 2nd delay in JPMorgan Chase fraud sentencing
Charlie Javice can't fly to NYC for her September 29 sentencing for defrauding JPMorgan Chase of $175M. Her judge and prosecutors are asking why.
3 min read
Luigi Mangione calls the death penalty unconstitutional in a court filing critical of Pam Bondi
Mangione filed a 114-page legal attack on the death penalty and US Attorney General Pam Bondi. He is charged in the murder of UHC CEO Brian Thompson.
3 min read
Judge tosses Trump's $15 billion lawsuit against The New York Times, saying it's too long
Trump's defamation lawsuit against the New York Times was "tedious" and could be 45 pages shorter, a federal judge ruled.
3 min read
Newly revealed Epstein secrets could help victims get their hands on more of his fortune
Only about 25% of Jeffrey Epstein's fortune went to his sexual abuse accusers. Congressional investigations into his finances could change that.
5 min read
Justin Baldoni seeks unsealing of a Wayfarer exec's '2 dead bodies' rant against Blake Lively, Ryan Reynolds
A new Blake Lively v. Justin Baldoni scuffle concerns Wayfarer exec Steve Sarowitz's secretly-recorded 2024 rant against Lively and Ryan Reynolds.
3 min read
Exclusive
The billion-dollar rivalry over 'ChatGPT for doctors' just got nastier with dueling lawsuits
Doximity is countersuing hot healthcare startup OpenEvidence after OpenEvidence claimed in June Doximity tried to steal the startup's AI prompts.
6 min read
A 90-year-old Supreme Court precedent protecting Fed independence is on its deathbed
A Supreme Court case called "Humphrey's Executor" has shielded independent agency leaders from political influence. In the Trump era, that's changing.
7 min read
Luigi Mangione's terrorism charges were just dismissed. He still faces a second-degree murder charge.
In a surprise decision in Luigi Mangione's case, New York Supreme Court Justice Gregory Carro dismissed two terrorism charges in the state indictment.
4 min read
Feds tell judge that Charlie Javice should spend 12 years in prison for defrauding JPMorgan Chase
Federal prosecutors say Charlie Javice's apology ahead of her sentencing hearing was "hollow" after the Frank founder was convicted of fraud.
2 min read
Diddy hopes some of his former escorts will help him at sentencing
His legal team intends to argue that some of these "entertainers" gave prosecutors never-revealed interviews that actually help the defense.
4 min read
Mortgage regulator Bill Pulte has posted at least 13 agency orders on his personal X account
Bill Pulte has posted at least 13 agency orders on his personal X account. They don't appear to be posted publicly anywhere else.
5 min read
Charlie Javice takes 'full responsibility,' asks for mercy ahead of JPMorgan Chase fraud sentencing
"There are no excuses, only regret," Javice wrote her judge Friday night, ahead of her sentencing for defrauding JPMorgan Chase out of $175 million
3 min read
Sam Altman is fighting to depose Elon Musk's wealth manager and Shivon Zilis
Sam Altman wants multiple depositions from Jared Birchall, Elon Musk's wealth manager, and Shivon Zilis, mother to four of his children.
3 min read
What Jeffrey Epstein's birthday book tells us about his Wall Street origins
He went from teaching math to managing millions. Letters from Bear Stearns colleagues show how Jeffrey Epstein started his financial ascent.
5 min read
Here's what 8 business titans told Jeffrey Epstein in his birthday book
Leon Black wrote a poem and signed it "love and kisses." Les Wexner doodled a woman's chest. A tech executive sent photos of animals having sex.
10 min read
Frank founder Charlie Javice cites fertility struggles, Holocaust-surviving grandmother, in bid for no prison
Charlie Javice — the young tech entrepreneur convicted of defrauding JPMorgan Chase —wants a no-jail, no-restitution sentence.
4 min read
September is a big month for Luigi Mangione
Who will try Mangione first, NY or the feds? Will his terrorism charges survive? Key decisions this month will set the stage for all that comes next.
5 min read
Anthropic agrees to pay authors over $1.5 billion for using their work to train AI, totaling around $3,000 a book
Anthropic agreed to pay over $1.5 billion to settle a lawsuit brought by authors who say the company used their pirated books to train its AI.
3 min read
Basquiats, Bentleys, and betrayal: legal brawl heats up between art advisors to the stars
Art advisors Barbara Guggenheim and Abigail Asher are suing each other after 37 years with clients like Sony, Coca-Cola, and Steven Spielberg.
5 min read
Trump v. YouTube settlement talks quietly drag on, and a judge demands a public update
Trump's 2021 "censorship" suit against YouTube and Sundar Pichai has been in private settlement talks for months. The judge wants an update.
3 min read
A Jeffrey Epstein accuser says victims will make their own list of people in the sex-trafficker's orbit
Survivors waited for the government to release the "Epstein files." Accuser Lisa Phillips says they're now making their own list.
5 min read
Fed Governor Lisa Cook 'did not ever commit mortgage fraud,' attorneys say
Lawyers for Fed Governor Lisa Cook said the alleged contradictions in her mortgage records were already disclosed to the government.
3 min read
The biggest winners from the Google antitrust decision? Its AI rivals.
Here's how the judge's remedies in the Department of Justice's Google antitrust case could affect Apple, OpenAI, and Perplexity.
5 min read
Trump's DOJ told companies how to avoid getting prosecuted. Here's how one company pulled it off.
The Trump administration made clear it doesn't want to prosecute corporations. Here's how one company got the best-case scenario.
7 min read
Ghislaine Maxwell joins Jen Shah at 'Club Fed.' The 'Real Housewives' star's prison consultant calls it a major upgrade.
Jeffrey Epstein's associate has moved to the same prison camp as Elizabeth Holmes and Jen Shah. It's an improvement, according to a prison consultant.
6 min read
2 companies ruled legal tech for decades. AI is blowing that wide open.
Legal tech used to be a two-horse race. Now, AI makes it anyone's to win.
5 min read
Tony Bennett barred his daughters from managing his money or legacy. It fueled an estate war that's still raging.
Tony Bennett barred his two daughters from any role in managing his money. The decision has ignited a sisters-vs-brothers estate war.
7 min read
Lisa Cook's future at the Federal Reserve remains undecided after round 1 of her legal battle with Donald Trump
Lisa Cook asked a judge to issue a temporary restraining order on President Donald Trump, ensuring she keeps her job at the Federal Reserve.
6 min read
Fed governor Lisa Cook puts the bank's independence front and center as she sues Donald Trump
Lisa Cook's lawsuit over Trump's attempted firing marks the start of a high-stakes legal showdown that will test the Federal Reserve's independence.
6 min read
A Big Law attorney and two techies built an AI that predicts judges' rulings. See the pitch deck they used to raise $5 million.
The team behind Bench IQ, which includes a Kirkland & Ellis veteran attorney, thinks every litigator will want its "cheat sheet for the bench."
4 min read
Fed emphasizes its commitment to 'independence' as Lisa Cook pledges to sue over Trump's 'illegal' firing
President Donald Trump said he was firing Lisa Cook from her position on the Federal Reserve board, but it's unclear if he has the authority to do so.
6 min read
Elon Musk's companies sue Apple and OpenAI, accusing them of an 'anticompetitive scheme'
Two of Elon Musk's companies are suing Apple and OpenAI, accusing them of using market dominance to shut out X and xAI from competing in the AI race.
5 min read
Clio built its empire on small law firms. Now it's spending $1 billion to buy a seat at Big Law's table.
The largest acquisition in legal-tech history could turn a duopoly into the "Big 3."
5 min read
8 takeaways from Ghislaine Maxwell's interview transcript with the Justice Department
In a two-day interview Ghislaine Maxwell was asked about her relationship with Jeffrey Epstein and conspiracy theories surrounding his life and death.
9 min read
I worked at the DOJ for 18 years. Now I run a support network for employees navigating retaliation and job loss.
Stacey Young, a Justice Department civil servant of 18 years, founded Justice Connection to connect employees with alumni.
5 min read
Trump may not have to pay $500 million, but an appeals court still found him liable for fraud
A group of five New York judges struck down the fines issued by the trial court, finding it excessive — but couldn't agree on much else.
6 min read
Elon Musk called on corporations to leave Delaware. Delaware says it's doing just fine.
Elon Musk urged companies to leave Delaware after clashing with its Court of Chancery last year.
4 min read
I was a movie editor. Fighting for workers' rights made me quit the industry and go to law school.
Edward Wardrip saw flaws of the gig economy as a documentary editor. Now he's going to law school with plans to fight for workers.
4 min read
Luigi Mangione's 120-page healthcare history was accidentally shared by Aetna and his own lawyers, prosecutor says
In new finger pointing, Luigi Mangione's NY prosecutor says Aetna and defense lawyers were all sloppy with his private medical records.
4 min read
Mistrial in Tornado Cash developer Roman Storm's money laundering case
A jury could not agree on whether Storm helped launder more than $1B in dirty crypto, including for North Korea. They convicted on one lesser count.
6 min read
Andreessen Horowitz fled Delaware and moved to Nevada. It's more about vibes than substance.
Andreessen Horowitz moved its main business entities to Nevada — but the Delaware laws that a16z critiqued didn't really apply to it.
3 min read
Rupert Murdoch promises to give Trump 'regularly scheduled' health updates while staving off deposition
The deal between Rupert Murdoch and Donald Trump came in a lawsuit the president filed over an article about his relationship with Jeffrey Epstein.
3 min read
Shareholders sue Tesla and Elon Musk on heels of deadly autopilot crash verdict, alleging its robotaxi violates traffic laws
Videos of Tesla robotaxis showed them driving in the wrong lane and exceeding the speed limit. Shareholders weren't happy.
2 min read
Blake Lively demands that Justin Baldoni's lawyer be sanctioned after accusing him of creating a 'media circus'
In the "It Ends With Us" legal war, Blake Lively wants sanctions against Justin Baldoni's lawyer for allegedly leaking to the tabloids.
3 min read
4 people who have seen the Epstein files say nothing suggests he was a spy
Four people who had access to records seized by the FBI say they found nothing to indicate Epstein had any role with US or foreign intelligence.
How beating the casino actually works, according to a former card counter
Mike Aponte is a former MIT blackjack team leader and a major innovator in card-counting strategies.
'It Ends With Us' editor complained 'SMH' about Blake Lively's approval rights for sex scenes, unsealed texts show
"It Ends With Us" film editor expresses frustration over Blake Lively's sex-scene approval demands in texts offering a glimpse at production tensions.
3 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.