Trump cancels meeting with Democrats as prospects for shutdown increase : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Trump cancels meeting with Democrats as prospects for shutdown increase President Trump called off a planned Thursday meeting with top Hill Democrats to discuss a possible deal to avoid a shutdown. He called Democrats' demands "unserious." Democrats say he chickened out.
Politics
Trump cancels meeting with Democrats as prospects for shutdown increase
Updated September 23, 20253:35 PM ET
Originally published September 23, 202512:30 PM ET
Deirdre Walsh
Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., speak at a press conference at the U.S. Capitol on June 11, 2025 in Washington, D.C.
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
President Trump abruptly cancelled a planned Thursday meeting at the White House with top congressional Democratic leaders, increasing the chances of a government shutdown on Oct. 1. Shortly after Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries claimed victory in a joint statement for securing the meeting on Tuesday morning, the president posted on his social media platform that he was calling it off.
Politics
House approves stopgap spending bill but health care fight threatens a shutdown
"After reviewing the details of the unserious and ridiculous demands being made by the Minority Radical Left Democrats in return for their Votes to keep our thriving Country open, I have decided that no meeting with their Congressional Leaders could possibly be productive," the president wrote. He argued that the items in the Democrats' alternative funding proposal like rolling back the Medicaid changes enacted in the president's signature tax bill and extending Affordable Care Act tax credits were nonstarters. "There are consequences to losing Elections but, based on their letter to me, the Democrats haven't figured that out yet," Trump wrote.
Sponsor Message
Jeffries shot back his own response on social media saying "Trump Always Chickens Out," a reference to the "TACO" slogan that some popularized around the president's shifting positions on imposing tariffs. "Our position is not complicated: cancel the cuts, lower the costs, save health care," Jeffries added at a press conference on Tuesday in New York. As a sign the messaging war is only starting about who is to blame in the event of a shutdown next week, Jeffries added, "the extremists want to shut down the government because they are unwilling to address the Republican healthcare crisis that is devastating America." Schumer said in a statement that the president was "running away from the negotiating table before he even gets there." He said the president would "rather throw a tantrum than do his job."
Politics
Republicans release 7-week spending bill as Democrats warn of a potential shutdown
Schumer argued, "Trump and Republicans are holding America hostage. Donald Trump will own the shutdown." On Friday the House narrowly approved a bill extending current funding levels through Nov. 21, but the Senate did not have the 60 votes needed to advance it. An alternative proposal from Democrats also failed. Both chambers are on recess this week, and Senate Majority Leader John Thune indicated he will bring up a straight extension of funding levels on Sept. 29. House leaders cancelled planned votes for next Monday and Tuesday and the chamber isn't scheduled to return until late next week.
Sponsor Message
GOP leaders insist Democrats would bear the blame if there is any interruption in funding, and have dubbed the dynamic "the Schumer shutdown." In a letter to House Democrats, Jeffries said he would hold a virtual meeting with members on Friday afternoon to talk about the next steps. He noted that House GOP leaders change the schedule for next week but that he scheduled a caucus meeting for all House Democrats on Monday evening. "Democrats will be in town and prepared to get the job done."
government shutdown
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor