Still using your ISP’s weak router? Get this TP-Link Wi-Fi 6 router that's an absolute beast as it drops to an all-time low price
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Still using your ISP’s weak router? Get this TP-Link Wi-Fi 6 router that's an absolute beast as it drops to an all-time low price
Source: TP-Link
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 1 day ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
TP-Link Archer AX21
$53
$100
Save $47
The TP-Link Archer AX21 is one of the best-selling Wi-Fi 6 routers, with a low price, solid features, and reliable hardware. It has an AX1800 dual-band connection and easy setup and management with the TP-Link Tether app.
$53 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
While using a free router from your ISP isn't a bad thing, there's a pretty good chance you're losing out on performance and features. And although it used to be fairly costly to upgrade or buy something new, that really isn't the case anymore if you're looking for more modest improvements. That's where this TP-Link Archer AX21 router comes in delivering Wi-Fi 6 speeds and coverage for just $53. We like what this router offers, and we think the newly discounted price that drops it to a record low makes it worth taking a look at.
A cheap router with great performance
Source: TP-Link
This is one of those routers that gets a lot right and doesn't hurt your wallet. It's a dual-band Wi-Fi 6 router with a total bandwidth of up to 1.8Gbps. It's great for all uses, and can even excel with things that require more bandwidth, like streaming and gaming.
The range is good enough for a large home or medium-sized office, and the device can also accommodate multiple devices at once. There's also excellent management and security features, with support for VPN services as well. You can even network multiple TP-Link devices to create a mesh network later down the line if you need more coverage. The best part is that the set up is simple, and only requires the user to download the TP-Link app to a phone or tablet for easy control of all devices on the network.
For most people, this is going to be a great upgrade. You get a router that is easy to set up and use, while also being extremely versatile as well. Those that need more, will want to look through the specifications to see if this router will work for your purposes. But grab it now for just $53 from Amazon.
Networking
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
2 days ago
10 Windows features power users regret ignoring for so long
3 days ago
5 "must-have" motherboard features most gamers don't even think about
2 days ago
This awesome Raspberry Pi project brings the Game Boy Advance back to life
3 days ago
This triple-A open-world FPS with 87% positive reviews is just $4.49 on Steam for a limited time
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
1 hour ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
3 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
Maxon Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer Synapse are all coming to Windows on Arm
I save space on my gaming console's hard drive by doing these 3 things all the time
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.