Best Wi-Fi Extenders of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Home Internet
Best Wi-Fi Extenders of 2025
Looking to improve your internet connection throughout the house? Here are CNET's top picks for Wi-Fi extenders.
Our Experts
Written by
Ry Crist
Article updated on June 15, 2025 at 9:00 PM PDT
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking. Expertise Smart home technology | Wireless connectivity Credentials 10 years product testing experience with the CNET Home team
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Editor's Note: We think you should be aware that TP-Link routers are under investigation by the US government over security concerns and could be banned in the US this year, according to multiple news reports. The TP-Link Archer RE605X was previously named our best overall choice for Wi-Fi extenders. While our evaluation of the hardware hasn't changed, out of extreme caution for our readers, we decided to pause it as our top recommendation until we learn more. Read CNET's reporting for more information. Our Picks
Best overall Wi-Fi extender Linksys RE7310
Jump to details
$155 at Amazon
Jump to details
A close second TP-Link RE605X
Jump to details
$60 at Amazon
Jump to details
The best budget Wi-Fi extender
TP-Link RE220
Jump to details
$13 at Amazon
Jump to details
Wait for a sale for this Wi-Fi extender D-Link DAP-X1870
Jump to details
$81 at Amazon
Jump to details
Solid Wi-Fi 6 extender performance for the price TP-Link RE505X
Jump to details
$74 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Wi-Fi Extenders of 2025
What is the best Wi-Fi extender overall?
Best Wi-Fi extenders
What is a Wi-Fi range extender?
Should I buy a Wi-Fi extender?
How CNET tests Wi-Fi extenders and signal boosters
Wi-Fi extender test results
Affordable Wi-Fi booster picks
Bottom line
Wi-Fi range extender FAQs
Even the newest Wi-Fi routers will struggle to connect every corner of a multi-story home. When that happens, you have two choices: Swap out your router for a mesh system or add a Wi-Fi extender to your existing router. For as little as $20, a Wi-Fi extender can boost your internet signal to a specific area without you having to invest in an entirely new setup. Installation is as simple as plugging the extender into an electrical outlet and connecting it to your Wi-Fi router. If that sounds too good to be true, it kind of is. CNET's testing has found that Wi-Fi extenders can be a passable solution if you're looking to improve the connection in a single room, but you'll likely end up disappointed if you're hoping to boost the speeds to an entire floor or wing of your home. For that, you're better off upgrading to a full-fledged mesh system.If you're looking to bring your Wi-Fi outside the house, be sure to check out our explainer on extending Wi-Fi outdoors, which includes recommendations for Wi-Fi extenders and mesh networks. What is the best Wi-Fi extender overall? If you decide to go the Wi-Fi extender route, our vote for the best Wi-Fi extender is the Linksys RE7310. While it's slightly more expensive than other models at $80, it delivered significant speed boosts in every room we tested and offers full support for Wi-Fi 6 speeds.If you're looking for something more affordable, there are plenty of options for under $50, although not all of them have Wi-Fi 6 support. We've spent the past few years regularly testing them to find the best of the bunch. After countless tests, our data identified the range extenders that reigned supreme. Let's get right to them.
Best Wi-Fi extenders
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best overall Wi-Fi extender
Linksys RE7310
In the CNET Smart Home, where we have a fiber internet plan with uploads and downloads of up to 150Mbps, the RE7310 returned average Wi-Fi 6 downloads throughout the entire multistory house of 132Mbps. As for the uploads, Linksys finished with an average whole-home speed to my Wi-Fi 6 test device of 124Mbps. The RE7310 finished in a virtual tie with the TP-Link RE605X on Wi-Fi 6 devices, but was slightly less impressive with earlier-gen Wi-Fi 5 devices, particularly with respect to upload speeds. Still, the performance was solid across the board, and strong enough to take video calls in the Smart Home's basement dead zones, something we would have struggled with using just the single router we ran our tests on. It's a bit bulky-looking, but the RE7310 is the best Linksys range extender we've tested yet, and it's an especially great pick if you can catch it on sale.  ... Show more
Get it now
$155 at Amazon
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
A close second
TP-Link RE605X
Pros
Excellent upload and download speeds
Cons
More expensive than other budget extenders
TP-Link makes some of the most popular picks in the range extender category, with a fairly wide variety of options to choose from at various price points. If you're buying one in 2025, the TP-Link RE605X should be right at the top of your list (government investigation notwithstanding). At $64, it's far from the most affordable extender on the market (keep reading for the value picks), but with a highly capable AX1800 design, full support for the latest Wi-Fi 6 speeds and features, adjustable antennas and a helpful, easy-to-use control app with strong reviews on both Android and iOS, it's about as well-rounded as range extenders get.The performance is particularly sharp too. In the tests at the CNET Smart Home, an RE605X in the basement was able to extend the router's signal from upstairs just fine, giving our upload and download speeds a significant boost in every room we tested. Throughout the entire 5,800-square-foot-home, among all the extenders we tested, the RE605X delivered the fastest average upload speeds to both Wi-Fi 5 and Wi-Fi 6 devices, the fastest average download speeds to Wi-Fi 6 devices and the second fastest average download speeds to Wi-Fi 5 devices.By default, the extender puts out its own separate network when you first pair it with your router, and that network will use the same password as your original network, and the same SSID with "-EXT" added to the end. That's better than extenders that put out an unsecured network by default -- and if you use the app to delete that "-EXT" bit, it'll automatically sync up with your original network and work invisibly to keep you better connected, which is ideal. All of that makes this extender an easy recommendation.  ... Show more
Get it now
$60 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
$100 at Target
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
The best budget Wi-Fi extender
TP-Link RE220
The TP-Link RE220 was the least expensive range extender during our first run of at-home tests, but that didn't stop it from outperforming everything else we tested at every turn. As Wi-Fi extenders go, it's fast, it's reliable, it works with just about every Wi-Fi router out there, and it's easy to use. And, as of writing this, it costs even less than we paid for it initially -- down to $15 on Amazon.Plug it in and press the WPS button to pair it with your home network, and it'll begin broadcasting its own networks on the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands. Both offered steady Wi-Fi speeds throughout the home, including average download speeds on the 5GHz band of at least 75Mbps in every room access point we tested, along with strong upload speeds. The RE220 never once dropped our connection, and its speeds were consistent across multiple days of tests during both daytime and evening hours.It's a little long in the tooth at this point, and it won't wow you with Wi-Fi 6 speeds, but the strong ease of use and the steady, dependable level of performance it offers mean it's still an absolute steal. It's not as fast as the top models we've tested in the years since, and we haven't had a chance to retest it at the CNET Smart Home just yet -- but it's still a great choice if you want to boost the signal from the Wi-Fi router to a back room that sits beyond the router's reach, but you'd like to pay as little as possible to get the job done.  ... Show more
Get it now
$13 at Amazon
$22 at Walmart
$13 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Wi-Fi Standard
Wi-Fi 5Speed Rating
AC750Range
Up to 1,200 sq. ft.Wireless Networking Security
WPA2Bands
Dual-Band (2.4 and 5GHz)
Learn more
TP-Link RE220 review
Add to compare
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
Wait for a sale for this Wi-Fi extender
D-Link DAP-X1870
Another strong model from our tests, the D-Link DAP-X1870, is an excellent performer that creates a single, unified network as soon as you pair it with your router. That keeps things easy, but at a retail price around $85, it feels a bit too expensive here in 2025.If you're simply looking for the best value pick, we'd probably stick with the $15 TP-Link RE220. However, we'll keep an eye out for any other good sales and update this post as we spot them.  ... Show more
Get it now
$81 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Wi-Fi Standard
Wi-Fi 6Speed Rating
AX1800Range
Up to 2,600 sq. ft.Wireless Networking Security
WPA, WPA2Bands
Dual-Band (2.4 and 5GHz)
Add to compare
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
Solid Wi-Fi 6 extender performance for the price
TP-Link RE505X
Last year's top pick, the RE505X is just a slightly less powerful version of the RE605X that costs a bit less. We haven't been able to retest it at the CNET Smart Home yet, but we'll update this post when we get the chance. For now, performance-minded consumers will be glad they spent up for the better upload speeds of the RE605X or the Linksys RE7310, and value-minded buyers will likely be better served with the less expensive TP-Link RE220.That leaves the RE505X as a bit of a middle child at this point, but it was an extremely capable and consistent performer in our earlier tests. At $57, it's one of the cheaper Wi-Fi 6 extenders you'll find.
... Show more
Get it now
$74 at Amazon
$70 at Walmart
$80 at Best Buy
What is a Wi-Fi range extender?
Also called a Wi-Fi signal booster, a range or Wi-Fi extender is a compact, plug-in device that is simple and hassle-free to implement. Wi-Fi extenders use built-in Wi-Fi radios and antennas to pair wirelessly with your router; no Ethernet" target="_self cable required. Just plug one near the edge of your router's wireless range and pair it with the network, and it'll start rebroadcasting the signal farther out for significantly faster internet speeds throughout your home. Should I buy a Wi-Fi extender?
Wi-Fi extenders are great options when you have a single room that you want to give a speed boost, like an office or a room with a smart TV. Wi-Fi extenders are generally less expensive than upgrading to a full-fledged mesh router with its own mesh Wi-Fi systems and range-extending satellite devices. Plus, they are generally a cinch to set up, they'll work no matter what brand of router you're using, and you can typically use the same SSID and password as your original router. That creates a single, seamless connection that will give you the best Wi-Fi range available with your current setup -- all without you needing to think about it too much.However, signal boosters can't extend your Wi-Fi signal to an entire floor or side of the house like a mesh router can. An extender is only as good as the router it's connected to, which means you won't see huge improvements if your router is failing, outdated or in the wrong spot.
We spent weeks testing these range extenders at the CNET Smart Home. Tristan Rinehart/CNET How CNET tests Wi-Fi extenders and signal boosters
We ran tests at the CNET Smart Home, a 5,800-square-foot multistory home in the outskirts of Louisville, Kentucky" target="_self, that served as a living lab for our product tests. It's a much better environment for testing wireless devices at range than a personal, somewhat cramped, shotgun-style house -- and with more ground to cover, it offered a much bigger challenge for these extenders.
Enlarge Image
This is the control graph, showing you the average speeds in each room we tested with no range extenders in play at all. On its own, a single, entry-level Wi-Fi 6 router in the laundry room was able to deliver decent speeds on the main floor of the home (the first four rooms in this chart), but speeds plummeted in the basement (the last four rooms), especially the upload speeds. Ry Crist/CNETThe CNET Smart Home has a fiber internet connection with matching upload and download speeds of up to 150Mbps. That's a far cry from the gigabit connections" target="_blank more and more of us have access to (not to mention the new, blazing-fast multi-gig internet plans" target="_blank emerging across the country). However, it's in line with the Federal Communication Commission's broadband definition, which makes it a great place to test how home networking products will work for the average consumer.For our purposes, we started by setting up a router in the Smart Home's laundry room, where the modem is set up. We went with the Netgear R6700AX" target="_blank, a perfectly decent model we've reviewed in the past. It offered reliable performance but limited range when we tested it -- and that's exactly what we wanted for these range extender tests.
We ran all of this year's range extender tests with a Netgear R6700AX router running the network. It's a low-power, budget-price Wi-Fi 6 model that offered consistent performance when we first tested it out, making it an ideal control router for these tests. Ry Crist/CNETSure enough, the router delivered strong speeds on the home's main floor, but as soon as we went down to the basement level, speeds started to fall. That includes single-digit upload speeds in the bourbon room and the mud room. (Yes, the Smart Home has a bourbon room that the previous owners used to age their own barrels. We don't have any barrels of our own, but it smells amazing in there. Kentucky, ya'll!)Running the range testWith our control speeds established, it was time to start adding in the range boosters and seeing which ones improved things the best. Pairing each one with the router required us only to plug it in nearby and press the WPS button on both devices -- after that, we relocated them downstairs to the basement rec room, which was the farthest point from the router that still had a decent signal and speeds. Whenever you're using a Wi-Fi range extender, that's typically the best place to put it: just shy of the edge of your router's range, where it will still receive a strong enough signal to put out a strong signal of its own. The best way to find that spot? Grab your phone or laptop and run some speed tests" target="_blank.In the end, we ran at least 96 speed tests for each extender, two rounds of 24 tests to find its average speeds to a Wi-Fi 5 client device (an iPad Air 2 from 2015) and another two rounds of 24 tests to check its speeds to a Wi-Fi 6 client device (a 2021 Lenovo ThinkPad laptop). In each case, we started the first round of tests with a fresh connection in the laundry room, closest to the router, and then started the second round of tests with a fresh connection in the mud room, farthest from the router. With each test, we logged the client device's download speed, its upload speed and the latency of the connection. Aside from our speed tests, we streamed video on each extender's network and made several video calls while connected through each one. We also spent time playing with each extender's settings. You shouldn't expect much, but most will at least make it easy to change the extension network's name or password. Some include app controls with extra features, too.
It's also worth making sure that your range extender includes at least one Ethernet port (almost all of them do). If you can directly connect your wired device (like a smart TV), then you'll enjoy speeds that are as fast as possible. Wi-Fi extender test results
Ready to see how the range extenders did in terms of upload and download speeds? Let's take a look.
Enlarge Image
These graphs show the average download speeds by room (left) and average upload speeds by room (right) for a Wi-Fi 6 laptop connected to each extender. All five models we tested delivered noticeable improvements to the connection, but some did a better job than others. Ry Crist/CNETOn the left, this first set of graphs shows you the average download speeds by room for each extender we tested. On the right, you're looking at the average upload speeds. All of these speeds are to our Wi-Fi 6 test device, a Lenovo ThinkPad laptop from 2021.So what jumps out? First, all five of these extenders did a decent job of boosting speeds in those last four rooms, down in the basement. With all of them, we had a faster connection throughout the house than we had when we connected through the router alone. The D-Link EaglePro AI struggled a bit with upload speeds in the basement, but still kept things above a minimum of 20Mbps or so.That was with a Wi-Fi 6 device, though. How did the performance look with an older Wi-Fi 5 device from several years ago?
Enlarge Image
Again, this is average download speeds by room on the left, average upload speeds on the right -- this time, to an older Wi-Fi 5 device. Ry Crist/CNETThings get interesting here -- you can see a greater gulf between download and upload performance, as well as some more distinct weak spots and dead zones throughout the house. Each of the five extenders struggled to keep uploads speedy in the upstairs dinette, for instance. With Wi-Fi 6, we barely saw any issues there at all, save for the Netgear Nighthawk X4S.Meanwhile, in the basement, our top picks from TP-Link and Linksys (as well as the high-performing Asus RP-AX56) were each able to keep download speeds above 100Mbps, which is great. Uploads were another story, as all of the extenders struggled. None of them failed to deliver a usable upload connection outright, though the D-Link EaglePro AI came close with single-digit upload speeds in the basement's farthest reaches.The TP-Link RE605X makes it easy to tweak settings via TP-Link's Tether app on an Android or iOS device. Again, the features make for slim pickings, but you can check signal strength or turn on High-Speed Mode, which dedicates the 2.4GHz band" target="_self for traffic from the router to the range extender, leaving the 5GHz free for your regular Wi-Fi network traffic. That mode wasn't as fast as sharing the 5GHz band like normal when we tested it out, because those incoming 2.4GHz speeds are limited, but it still might be a helpful option in some situations.
Another key takeaway from these tests is that Wi-Fi 6 delivers some of its most noticeable speed boosts on the upload side of things. If you're looking to make lots of video calls, upload lots of large files to the web or anything else requiring sturdy upload performance, then upgrading to Wi-Fi 6 hardware should be high on your list of priorities (assuming you haven't already made the jump). Affordable Wi-Fi booster picks
For our first batch of range extender tests a few years back, we tested four bargain-priced models to see which one offered the most bang for the buck. It was the start of the pandemic and people were scrambling to bolster their home networks -- we wanted to be sure we could point them to a good, budget-friendly pick that would do the best job as a signal booster offering an extra room's worth of coverage in a pinch.
In the end, the aforementioned TP-Link RE220 was the runaway winner. Currently available for $15, it remains a solid value pick.
We've separated these models from the other six because the test setup was different in our initial tests, and it wouldn't be fair to directly compare those results. You've already read about the TP-Link RE220, but here are our takeaways from the others we tested:
Enlarge Image
With two adjustable external antennas, the D-Link DAP-1620 is pretty powerful for a budget-priced range extender, but it wasn't as consistent as our top pick. Ry Crist/CNETD-Link DAP-1620: This was the only range extender that ever managed to hit triple digits during our tests, with an average speed of 104Mbps in the bedroom during evening hours. The setup was just as simple as what we experienced with TP-Link, too. We could stream HD video, browse the web and make video calls on the extender's network without any issue.
Network speeds were inconsistent, though -- and much slower in daytime hours, with a bigger dropoff than we saw with TP-Link. The device also dropped our connection at one point during our speed tests. On top of that, the app was too finicky for our tastes, refusing to let us log in and tweak settings with the supplied device password, which ultimately forced us to reset the device. That's too much hassle for us to recommend outright, but if you can grab it on sale for less than $30, it could be a decent alternative to the TP-Link RE220.
Enlarge Image
The Netgear EX3700 wasn't powerful enough for the price. Ry Crist/CNETNetgear EX3700: It's a dated-looking device and it wasn't a strong performer in our tests. The 2.4GHz band was able to sustain workable speeds between 30 and 40Mbps throughout most of the home, which was strong enough to stream video with minimal buffering, or to hold a quick video call with a slight delay. But the 5GHz band was surprisingly weak, often dropping into single digits with only a single wall separating the PC or connected device from the range extender.
We also weren't fans of the web interface, as it seemed more interested in getting us to register for the warranty (and opt in to marketing emails) than in actually offering any sort of control over the connection. WPS button-based setup lets you skip all of that, which is helpful, and some outlets now have it listed for less than $30, but even so, this is one you can safely pass by.
Enlarge Image
Most plug-in range extenders only offer basic features at best, but the TP-Link Tether app includes a signal strength tester and a High-Speed Mode in the app. Screenshots by Ry Crist/CNET Bottom line
Before investing in a Wi-Fi extender, evaluate the Wi-Fi problems you're trying to fix. Are you trying to improve internet access in one room or extend the internet to an entire floor? Wi-Fi extenders aren't as effective as mesh Wi-Fi systems in improving signal throughout the house, but they still offer impressive speed boosts in rooms that need them. Our top pick was the Linksys RE7310w, with the TP-Link RE605X coming in as a close second. If you want to stay within a budget, our top competitively priced pick is the TP-Link RE220. Wi-Fi range extender FAQs
How effective are Wi-Fi range extenders?
Plug-in range extenders like these can help boost your speeds when you're connecting far from the router, but they can only do so much. The actual speed boost will depend on a multitude of different factors, including the layout of your home, the type of router you're using, the type of device you're trying to connect with and your internet plan's speeds. If your home's internet connection offers top speeds of 100Mbps or higher, then a decent, well-placed range extender should be able to boost your download speeds in a dead zone or when you're in range by at least 50Mbps, if not 100Mbps. That's enough to browse the web or stream video online. Upload boosts are typically a little lower, but should still be enough to ensure that you can make a video call or upload a file to the cloud.
...Read more
Do Wi-Fi extenders slow down your Wi-Fi?
Most range extenders will put out their own separate network -- usually the name of your original network with "_EXT" added to the end or something like that. Having a separate network like that under the same roof as your main network could potentially cause a small amount of interference, but we haven't seen any noticeable slowdowns on my main network during any of these tests. And, in most cases, you can rename the extender's network and password to match your main network, at which point you'll have a single, seamless network that automatically passes your connection back and forth as you move throughout your home.That said, keep an eye out for client devices (phones, laptops and so on) that automatically connect to whichever network offers the best signal at the time. If you've used a device like that on both your main network and the extender's network, then it's possible that your device will jump from one to the other without you realizing it. For instance, if your laptop is on your main network and you move a bit closer to the extender than the router, then your laptop might lose its connection and jump over to the range extender's network for the stronger signal strength, even though the speeds on that extender network might be slower.
...Read more
What's the difference between a Wi-Fi signal booster and network extender?
There is no functional difference between a Wi-Fi signal booster and a network extender. Manufacturers use different terms to describe the same products, and all of these devices work the same way -- by re-broadcasting your router's signal through a wired connection (your power outlet). A Wi-Fi repeater is slightly different. It connects to your router wirelessly and re-broadcasts the signal in another room.
...Read more
Is a Wi-Fi extender better than a mesh router?
In most cases, no. If you're living in a larger home or if you need speeds that are reliably faster than 100Mbps at range, then it's probably worth it to go ahead and upgrade to a mesh router with its own range-extending satellite devices. You've got more options than ever these days, and just about all of them would likely outperform a stand-alone router paired with a plug-in range extender like the ones tested here.Wi-Fi extenders are better suited for situations where you've just got a single room or maybe two where you'd like speeds to be slightly higher. They won't work miracles, but in a situation like that, they'll get the job done.
...Read more
Where should I put my Wi-Fi extender?
The best approach is to plug the extender in somewhere close to the dead zone you're trying to fix, but not within that dead zone. That's because you need the extender to have a decent connection with your router in order to put out a worthwhile signal of its own.To find a good spot, grab your phone or laptop, connect to your home network and run some internet speed tests in various spots that are adjacent to the dead zone in question. Once you've found a spot near the dead zone that still hits usable upload and download speeds (preferably at least 50% of whatever you're able to hit up close to the router), then you're probably in a good location.
...Read more
How do I set up my Wi-Fi extender?
Setting up a Wi-Fi extender is about as painless as it gets. Most models support Wi-Fi Protected Setup, or WPS, which is a universal protocol that wireless networking devices can use to connect with each other. Just plug the extender in, wait for it to boot up, press the extender's WPS button and then press the WPS button on your router within two minutes. Voila, connected.
...Read more
What's the best budget Wi-Fi extender under $100?
Most Wi-Fi extenders cost well under $100, and our runner-up pick, the TP-Link RE605X, is priced just below that at some retailers. If you're looking for an ultra-affordable model, the TP-Link RE220 costs under $20 and outperformed almost every other extender in our initial tests. It's a little outdated at this point -- you won't get Wi-Fi 6 support, for example -- but it still gets the job done for a very low investment.
...Read more
About the Author
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs
Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking.
Read full bio
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.