iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared the flagship handsets, and there's a winner | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared the flagship handsets, and there's a winner
Which premium phone deserves a spot in your pocket? Based on specs and hands-on experience, here's my early verdict.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 22, 2025 at 4:01 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner and Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.It feels like yesterday when I sat in a Brooklyn warehouse to watch Jimmy Fallon introduce the Google Pixel 10 series to the world. Since then, Apple has joined the fray with the new iPhone 17, and now I've got a few too many new handsets on my mind.Between what Apple and Google announced, the iPhone 17 Pro Max and Google Pixel 10 Pro XL stand out as the best of the best. They're the models that tech enthusiasts drool about, fans wait in lines for, and journalists like me itch to compare before the year-end awards are due.Also: I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this timeIf you're deciding on which of the two phones to buy, I've laid out the biggest differences below, based on specs, hands-on experience, and years of testing both iPhone and Pixel phones.SpecificationsApple iPhone 17 Pro MaxGoogle Pixel 10 Pro XLDisplay6.9" AMOLED with 120Hz, 3000 nits peak6.8" QHD AMOLED 120Hz, 3300 nits peakWeight233 grams232 gramsProcessorApple A19 ProGoogle Tensor G5Dimensions78 x 163.4 x 8.75mm76.6 x 162.8 x 8.5mmStorage256GB, 512GB, 1TB and 2TB256GB, 512GB, 1TBBatteryN/A5,080mAhCamera48MP Fusion / 48MP Ultra Wide / 48MP telephoto / 18MP front50MP wide / 48MP telephoto (5x) / 48MP ultrawide / 42MP frontPrice$1,199$1,199You should buy the iPhone 17 Pro Max if…
Jason Hiner/ZDNET1. You're a video (and selfie) aficionadoThe iPhone 17 Pro Max received several camera upgrades this year, but the two that I'd like to focus on are the ProRes Raw video support and the 18MP Center Stage front sensor.With the former, videographers can record content while bypassing all the usual, automated image processing, like adapting colors and sharpness. The result is footage that's friendlier to edit, can be matched to the tone that you're after, and, perhaps most importantly, appears more consistent with content captured by other cameras.Also: Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I compared both, and here's the winnerApple has also upgraded the front camera, which can now take photos and videos with a wider field of view. It's achieved this by opting for a square-shaped sensor versus a rectangular one, allowing the iPhone to crop in or out (read: take photos in landscape or portrait orientation) without requiring you to rotate the device.2. You know how to make a phone turn hotWhether you're a hardcore mobile gamer or frequently multitasking, the iPhone 17 Pro Max is arguably the better-performing handset of the two. A big reason for the gap is the new A19 Pro chip, which Apple claims offers a 40% improvement in sustained performance compared to the iPhone 16 Pro. (Keep in mind that when we tested last year's model, the performance was already impressive.)Apple has also introduced a new vapor chamber cooling system for the iPhone, which leverages a liquid-filled back panel for heat dissipation. I'm expecting this to keep the iPhone running at peak performance for longer while reducing the toll intense workloads would usually have on the device's battery life.3. You need 2TB of storage on your phone We now live in a reality where you can buy a $2,000 iPhone from the Apple store, thanks to the new 2TB configuration for the iPhone 17 Pro Max. For content creators, photo buffs, and folks who simply download more apps and files than needed, there's now an iPhone geared for you.Also: You can buy Apple's new devices right now: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3, and moreComparatively, the Google Pixel 10 Pro XL maxes out at 1TB of internal storage. That's still plenty for most users, but those with high demands should gravitate toward the iPhone.
Buy the iPhone 17 Pro Max View now at T-MobileYou should buy the Google Pixel 10 Pro XL if…
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET1. You want AI features that promise and deliver There's no denying that the AI features on iPhones are remedial compared to what's on the Pixel. It's been an uphill battle for Apple since the beginning, and the gap has only gotten wider with the launch of the Pixel 10 Pro.Also: I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret itGoogle's latest AI tricks include generative image editing via text and a Magic Cue ticker that populates messages, notes, and even phone calls with relevant information (such as flight information, restaurant bookings, and more). I've found Google's latest AI features subtle, uninvasive, and highly functional, a combination that many others, including Apple, are still trying to match.2. You want the most forgiving camera on the marketWhile the iPhone 17 Pro Max gets my pick for shooting videos, the Google Pixel 10 Pro XL, with its triple lens setup and bounty of computational touch-ups, makes it the most forgiving camera phone right now.One feature that's impressed me the most this year is Pro Res Zoom, which uses generative AI to correct noise and distortion when you're taking pictures of distant subjects. That means shots of buildings and skyscrapers, statues, and even signage that's far away appear more in focus. Also: The secrets that make Pixel 10 Pro the world's smartest phone camera - from inside GoogleYou can also turn on Auto Best Take, which automatically picks out the best facial expressions of subjects and morphs them into a single photo -- effectively removing any chance of imperfections.3. You resonate more with Material 3 ExpressiveThis year, Google and Apple's approaches to software and user interface design diverged significantly. Google focused on unified colors, natural movements, and distinctive visual cues, while Apple's design language emphasized translucency and reflections.Apple's Liquid Glass concept for iOS 26, which makes the UI elements move like water droplets on a glass panel, is brilliant in theory. However, many iPhone beta users have pointed out a lack of contrast and discernment.In contrast, Google's Material 3 Expressive theming has been well-received by Pixel users. It allows for personalizing devices without being distracting.
Buy the Google Pixel 10 Pro XL View now at GoogleWant to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use