Potato Soup Recipe: How to Make Easy Homemade Potato Soup
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
The Best Ever Tomato Soup
Favorite Baked Potato Soup
Homemade Cheesy Potato Soup
Creamy Potato Soup
Cream of Potato Soup
Potato Soup
The Best Creamy Potato Salad
Nacho Potato Soup
Red Potato Soup
Holy Moly Potato Soup
Our Creamiest and Dreamiest Potato Soup Recipes
Veggie Potato Soup
Easy Baked Potato Soup
Potato Cheese Soup
Home-Style Potato Soup
Creamy Potato and Cheese Soup
Zesty Potato Soup
Polly's Perfect Potato Soup
Best Ever Potato Soup Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home SoupsCheese SoupsCheesy Potato Soups
Potato Soup
Best Ever Potato Soup Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4.7 | 177 Reviews
Total Time
Prep/Total Time: 30 min.
By
Lauren Habermehl
Recipe by Coleen Morrissey, Sweet Valley, Pennsylvania
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 26, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This easy homemade potato soup recipe is a staple side for steak dinners at home or an amazing comfort meal on a chilly day.
Anytime I make a potato soup recipe, I’m instantly taken back to my days of waitressing at various steakhouses in my 20s—probably because I ate a cup of potato soup at least four times a week before, after or during my shift. It wasn’t just an affordable option for a college student (like these other budget-friendly soup recipes), it was a filling and tasty one too.
This easy potato soup recipe is just like one you’d find on a steakhouse menu. Its rich and velvety base is loaded with cubes of tender potato, pieces of salty bacon, a healthy dose of melty cheese and a final flourish of green onions for color. Once you learn how to make this potato soup, it will become your go-to comfort food dinner anytime the weather is chilly or you’re feeling a little under the weather.
Potato Soup Ingredients
Bacon: Smoky and salty bacon infuses this recipe for potato soup with tons of umami flavor. Here are the best bacon brands to mix in.
Potatoes: You can use just about any type of potato for the homemade potato soup recipe, depending on the taste, texture and consistency you are hoping to achieve. For chunky potato soups like this one, a red or white waxy potato is best. They’re lower in starch so they hold their shape well throughout the cooking process. For a creamy, pureed potato soup recipe, opt for russets. Their high starch content and low moisture allow them to break down easily and puree super smooth. For the best of both worlds, Yukon Gold potatoes are what you want. They have more moisture than russets, so they’re ideal if you want a potato that will mash easily to thicken the soup while leaving the rest in chunks for texture.
Aromatics: Like many other homemade soups, a simple combination of carrots and chopped onion makes a base and gives the easy potato soup some depth.
Herbs and spices: Parsley provides freshness and color, celery seed lends savoriness and black pepper adds a little bite. Add the salt to taste, depending on how much you like.
Chicken broth: You can use homemade chicken broth if you have some, or buy your favorite chicken broth brand from the store.
Flour: Working with the potatoes, the flour thickens the soup. Here are some of our other favorite ways to thicken sauces, which will also work to thicken soups.
Milk: Use 2% milk to add richness and creaminess to this recipe for potato soup.
Velveeta: If you don’t have Velveeta, cheddar or Colby Jack are good substitutes.
Green onions: Crisp green onions add a light onion flavor that complements the creaminess.
Directions
Step 1: Cook the bacon, aromatics and potatoes
Taste of Home
In a large saucepan, cook the bacon over medium heat until crisp, stirring occasionally. Drain off any excess drippings.
Taste of Home
Add the vegetables, seasonings and broth. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat. Simmer, covered, until the potatoes are tender, 10 to 15 minutes.
Step 2: Thicken with flour and milk
Taste of Home
Whisk together the flour and milk until smooth, then stir it into the soup.
Editor’s Tip: Always whisk the flour and milk together before adding them to the soup (it creates a makeshift roux). Adding dry flour directly to the pot will cause it to clump and will lead to a lumpy potato soup that will not thicken correctly.
Taste of Home
Bring to a boil, stirring constantly, and cook until thickened, about two minutes.
Step 3: Add cheese and serve
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Stir in the cheese until melted. Garnish servings with green onions if desired.
Editor’s Tip: If you wish, load your homemade potato soup with more tasty toppings. Extra crumbled cooked bacon, shredded cheddar cheese or a dollop of sour cream would be wonderful additions. Basically anything you’d put on a baked potato recipe can work here.
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
Recipe Variations
Try it vegetarian: For a vegetarian potato soup recipe, omit the bacon from the recipe and opt for vegetable broth. For smokiness, you can add vegetarian bacon crumbles or add a little smoked cheddar or Gouda to the recipe.
Make it gluten-free: For a gluten-free potato soup, try thickening the soup with cornstarch instead of flour. Start by making a slurry of 2 tablespoons cornstarch mixed with 4 tablespoons water and add it during Step 2 of the potato soup recipe.
Add more seasonings: To jazz up the flavor, you can add other herbs and spices to this soup. Dried thyme, basil or oregano would add lovely herbaceous flavor. For a Cajun potato soup, add 1 to 2 teaspoons Cajun seasoning, or add a pinch of cayenne pepper or crushed red chili flakes.
How to Store Potato Soup
Easy potato soup may be kept refrigerated in an airtight food storage container for four to five days.
Can you freeze potato soup?
While many soups freeze well, homemade potato soup isn’t one of them. Soups containing potatoes and dairy tend to get grainy and to separate once frozen, thawed and reheated. So, we do not recommend freezing potato soup unless this textural change doesn’t bother you. Here are more tips for freezing soup.
How do you reheat potato soup?
The best way to reheat this recipe for potato soup is to do so gently in a saucepan on the stovetop over medium-low heat until heated through. Warming the soup slowly will help prevent the dairy in the soup from curdling. Heating soup recipes that contain milk and cheese too quickly over high heat is a common mistake in soup making and reheating.
Potato Soup Tips
JOSH RINK FOR TASTE OF HOME
How can you thicken potato soup?
If you want to learn how to make potato soup thicker, you can add an additional tablespoon of flour or substitute whole milk or heavy cream for some of the 2% milk. A dollop or two of sour cream or Greek yogurt are also lovely ways to thicken potato soup while also adding a little tang. If you have leftover mashed potatoes on hand, toss them in! They’ll also work wonders at giving this soup a little extra body.
What can you serve with potato soup?
There’s nothing like oven-fresh bread to go with homemade potato soup! Check out this Italian bread, these homemade Parker House rolls or any of our other bread recipes. Then, counter the indulgence of this homemade potato soup recipe with one of these garden salad recipes.
Watch How to Make Best Ever Potato Soup
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Best Ever Potato Soup
Contest Winner
4.7 | 177 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:8 servings (2 quarts)
Prep:10 min
Cook:20 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
6 bacon strips, diced
3 cups cubed peeled potatoes
1 small carrot, grated
1/2 cup chopped onion
1 tablespoon dried parsley flakes
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon pepper
1/2 teaspoon celery seed
1 can (14-1/2 ounces) chicken broth
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 cups 2% milk
8 ounces Velveeta, cubed
2 green onions, thinly sliced, optional
Text Ingredients
Directions
In a large saucepan, cook bacon over medium heat until crisp, stirring occasionally; drain drippings and set bacon aside. Add vegetables, seasonings and broth; bring to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer, covered, until potatoes are tender, 10-15 minutes.
Mix flour and milk until smooth; stir into soup. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly; cook and stir until thickened, about 2 minutes. Stir in cheese and bacon until melted. If desired, top with green onions and additional bacon.
Nutrition Facts
1 cup: 250 calories, 13g fat (7g saturated fat), 35mg cholesterol, 823mg sodium, 22g carbohydrate (8g sugars, 2g fiber), 12g protein.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
You'll be surprised at the taste of this rich and cheesy easy potato soup. It really is the best potato soup recipe, ever. I came up with it after enjoying baked potato soup at one of our favorite restaurants. I added bacon, and we think that makes it even better. —Coleen Morrissey, Sweet Valley, Pennsylvania
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box