ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
GPUs
GeForce RTX 50-series GPUs are finally selling at and below MSRP
Gaming Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops 2025: Tested, benchmarked and reviewed
PC Components
Asus' dual-mode 32-inch dual-mode gaming monitor is on sale for just $500
Gaming Laptops
The Aero X16 gaming laptop has the Nvidia RTX 5060 and latest AMD hardware plus a lenient price point
Gaming Monitors
Snag this 27-inch QHD Asus TUF gaming monitor for just $229 — the lowest price we've ever seen for it
PC Components
This Gigabyte Aero 16X deal is the most affordable RTX 5070-powered laptop at just $1,199
PC Components
Asus ROG Zephyrus G14 gets huge $400 discount at BestBuy, now $1999
Handheld Gaming
Leaked ROG Xbox Ally and ROG Ally X prices hint at a similar price range to existing models
Handheld Gaming
Get $150 off the Asus ROG Ally Z1 Extreme Windows gaming handheld
Handheld Gaming
Intel Lunar Lake-powered gaming handheld with 3D display will sell for $1,699
Handheld Gaming
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
Handheld Gaming
Lenovo Legion Go 2 prototype spotted ahead of launch in China
Retro Gaming
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Tablets
AMD's beastly Ryzen AI Max+ 395 chip to power 14-inch OLED gaming 2-in-1
Video Games
Console Gaming
Handheld Gaming
ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today
News
By
Zhiye Liu
published
25 September 2025
We should finally learn official pricing soon.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Asus)
The Asus ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally have found their way to Best Buy. Although they are not currently available for purchase, preorders are imminent, as reputable leaker billbil-kun has discovered that the latter has already been available for preorder on Amazon Canada.Although Asus announced the two gaming handhelds a month ago, the company omitted two crucial details from the announcement: pricing and the preorder date. As anticipation mounts for the October 16 launch, the ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally have recently appeared in multiple online retailer listings.The upcoming gaming devices, previously listed on Amazon, have price points of $850 for the ROG Xbox Ally X (RC73XA-XB_ALLYX.Z2E.24) and $550 for the ROG Xbox Ally (RC73YA-XB_ALLY.Z2A.16). Given how variable pricing has been with tech these days, it's worth approaching the pricing rumors with a degree of skepticism for the time being. Amazon has since removed the listings, rendering the information inaccessible. While Best Buy has retained its listings, the only definitive detail available is that the consoles are "coming soon."
You may like
Leaked ROG Xbox Ally and ROG Ally X prices hint at a similar price range to existing models
Get $150 off the Asus ROG Ally Z1 Extreme Windows gaming handheld
Intel Lunar Lake-powered gaming handheld with 3D display will sell for $1,699
Asus ROG Xbox Ally: at Best BuyThe ROG Xbox Ally features a 7-inch FHD screen with a 120 Hz refresh rate. The device comes equipped with AMD's Ryzen Z2 A processor, 16GB of memory, and a 512GB SSD.View DealAsus ROG Xbox Ally X: at Best BuyThe ROG Xbox Ally X has the same screen as the non-X variant but comes with more potent hardware. The device features a Ryzen Z2 Extreme chip, 24GB of memory, and a 1TB SSD.View DealThe ROG Xbox Ally, as listed on Amazon Canada, is up for preorder at 799.99 CAD, equivalent to approximately $575. It is important to note that hardware and devices outside the United States tend to be more costly, and manufacturers do not consistently apply the same MSRP across different international markets. Nonetheless, the Amazon Canada listing is up the same alley as the previously removed Amazon listing.The gaming handhelds will not arrive unaccompanied. Asus has already unveiled two official ROG Xbox Ally accessories. The ROG 100W charger dock, priced at $99.99, features one USB Type-C port, one HDMI 2.0 port, and two USB Type-A ports for connecting additional accessories to the ROG Xbox Ally. Furthermore, Asus has prepared a premium 2-in-1 travel case, retailing at $69.99. The hard-shell, water-repellent case includes a stand and a detachable accessory pouch designed to hold a 65W power adapter.Asus ROG Singapore has shared an Instagram story regarding the ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally preorders. The live countdown, titled "preorders dropping soon," indicates approximately six hours remaining, so the preorders and official MSRP are expected to be unveiled around 5 PM PT or 8 PM ET.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (1)
Zhiye LiuNews Editor, RAM Reviewer & SSD TechnicianZhiye Liu is a news editor, memory reviewer, and SSD tester at Tom’s Hardware. Although he loves everything that’s hardware, he has a soft spot for CPUs, GPUs, and RAM.
Read more
Leaked ROG Xbox Ally and ROG Ally X prices hint at a similar price range to existing models
Get $150 off the Asus ROG Ally Z1 Extreme Windows gaming handheld
Intel Lunar Lake-powered gaming handheld with 3D display will sell for $1,699
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
Lenovo Legion Go 2 prototype spotted ahead of launch in China
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Latest in Handheld Gaming
GPD Win 5 handheld soars above the competition with Strix Halo inside
Valve's 256GB LCD Steam Deck is an incredible 20% off — big price drop just in time for the Steam Autumn Sale
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
DIYer creates the PC gaming handheld of your widest dreams
Lenovo’s Legion Go 2 packs Ryzen Z2 Extreme and an OLED display
Latest in News
HighPoint's adapter enables GPUDirect storage — up to 64 GB/s from drive to GPU, bypassing the CPU
Elon Musk's Grok AI to be used by US government at a price of 42 cents per agency
ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
Notton
Just remember kids
Ryzen Z2A is the same chip used in Steam Deck. It's old and uses an 8CU RDNA2 graphics and 4x Zen2 CPU cores.
Ryzen Z2X is the newest chip. It uses 16CU RDNA3.5 and 8x Zen5 CPU cores.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.