c# - Visual Studio 2022 WinForms resources "missing" (but they aren't) - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Visual Studio 2022 WinForms resources "missing" (but they aren't)
Ask Question
Asked
yesterday
Modified
yesterday
Viewed
68 times
0
I used to be a developer and software engineer but I've been retired for 15 years now so I'm a bit rusty and not up to speed on the latest stuff.
Fired up Visual Studio 2022 for the first time in a year to fix some minor issues with a some custom (Winforms) utilities I had written.
It's been a while and they were using .Net 6.0 and framework 4.6.
So the first thing I did was update to Visual Studio v17.14.14, .Net 8.0.317 and framework 4.8.09037
And now NONE of my old (Winforms) programs work!
I'm getting a runtime error in the IDE "System.Resources.MissingManifestResourceException: 'Could not find the resource "UtilORama4.frmList.resources" among the resources "" embedded in the assembly "Channel-O-Rama", nor among the resources in any satellite assemblies for the specified culture. Perhaps the resources were embedded with an incorrect name."
(Note: Util-O-Rama is the name of the utilities suite, and the name of the namespace since many utilities in the suite share code and modules.
Channel-O-Rama is just one of many utilities in that suite, and frmList is the startup form.)
I attempted to roll back to .Net 6 and framework 4.6.0 but the problem still persists.
The projects built and ran just fine last time I opened them, a year ago.
I've googled and googled and copiloted and chatgpt'ed for 2 days now.
Tried every suggestion and diagnostic I could find.
Best as I can determine it is not even building the resource file when I attempt to run it.
frmList.cs, frmList.Designer.cs and frmList.resx are all there, named
as such, in the same folder.
I can open the forms in design mode, and
they include all the graphics and text they should.
I can change the graphics in picture boxes in forms designer. I can open the .resx
file and change things in the resource editor.
The resources are all language neutral.
(en-US)
The Build Action of the resx files is set to Embedded resource.
I can successfully build the projects.
When I run
the exe, no windows appear.
In task manager, the program briefly
shows up, then exits.
I've deleted the obj and bin folders.
I've
cleaned and rebuilt.
I've cranked up the verbosity for the build
logs.
There is no errors or anything concerning in the output other
than the above-mentioned error.
No error or message of concern
proceeds that one
The call stack show the error occurred in the
form's .designer.cs in the InitializeComponent() function where it
first tries to load an image, or more specifically:
this.picAboutIcon.Image =
((System.Drawing.Image)(resources.GetObject("picAboutIcon.Image")));
I've really tried to solve this on my own.
That's how you learn!
But I've run out of options.
What do I check or change next?!?
c#visual-studiowinformsembedded-resource
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked yesterday
DrWizardDrWizard
4166 bronze badges
8
Do you have a file frmList.Designer.cs? Have you changed any of the Designer files manually in any way? See also stackoverflow.com/questions/1327692/…
Charlieface
–
Charlieface
2025-09-14 20:05:44 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
I list my resources before I access them so I know if I'm looking in the right place.
Assembly assembly = Assembly.GetExecutingAssembly(); List<string> names = assembly.GetManifestResourceNames().ToList();
Gerry Schmitz
–
Gerry Schmitz
2025-09-14 20:21:29 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Since recently updated Visual Studio, .NET, and _.NET Framework, you may consider creating a new project for testing. In essence, a minimal, reproducible example to ensure that your installation is working correctly. If this works correctly, then move on to troubleshooting your code.
It all makes cents
–
It all makes cents
2025-09-14 20:29:47 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
When using .NET, one needs to understand that MS may periodically introduce breaking changes. One needs to review the Release Notes for each product that one updates for breaking changes. However, from what you've posted, it's unclear if you're affected by any breaking changes.
It all makes cents
–
It all makes cents
2025-09-14 20:32:19 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Check the Assembly Name and Default Namespace of your project In Solution Explorer, right-click on your project → Properties → go to the Application tab. Verify the values of Assembly name and Default namespace. The resource is being looked for as UtilORama4.frmList.resources, so these values must match the namespaces used in your code and forms. If either the Assembly name or the Default namespace has changed (which can happen after upgrading Visual Studio or .NET), the resource files will be embedded with a different name, and the runtime won’t be able to find them.
Alparslan ŞEN
–
Alparslan ŞEN
2025-09-14 20:34:46 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
|
Show 3 more comments
Related questions
1367
Difference between Build Solution, Rebuild Solution, and Clean Solution in Visual Studio?
1319
.gitignore for Visual Studio Projects and Solutions
1229
How do you auto format code in Visual Studio?
Related questions
1367
Difference between Build Solution, Rebuild Solution, and Clean Solution in Visual Studio?
1319
.gitignore for Visual Studio Projects and Solutions
1229
How do you auto format code in Visual Studio?
922
What are the various "Build action" settings in Visual Studio project properties and what do they do?
843
What are the differences between Visual Studio Code and Visual Studio?
1094
Can you force Visual Studio to always run as an Administrator?
966
How do you count the lines of code in a Visual Studio solution?
780
Writing to output window of Visual Studio
919
How do I add an existing directory tree to a project in Visual Studio?
915
Should I add the Visual Studio .suo and .user files to source control?
Load 7 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
c#visual-studiowinformsembedded-resource
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Linked
183
What does MissingManifestResourceException mean and how to fix it?
Hot Network Questions
Energy Conservation for Quantum Systems
Are Controlled ESR Capacitors Extinct?
Truth value of a sentence giving permission?
1970s-90s story where refugees flee through an escape tunnel and emerge unexpectedly in another world
How to disable all the AI features in Firefox to increase performance?
Does the Hebrew word [עִדָּה found in Isaiah compare the righteousness of a believer to a women’s used mentral rag?
Will gases contained inside a box eventually reach zero temperature?
Explanation of Rebbe (R Yehuda HaNasi) making kiddish after his passing
Voltage across Vce in a common emitter BJT
"But I'll miss the bus for my game!" what is a teacher's legal liability for letting kids out of class without confirmation?
Why are my fluorescent light fixtures and LED replacements turning on intermittently?
Did Trump claim "smart people don't like me"?
A million and one constants
What resources are available for identifying a particular Space Shuttle launch?
Is it OK to pray at breakneck speed?
Could there be a set of vectors that is linearly independent in the usual sense, but becomes linearly dependent if we allow infinite sums?
Insurance company want me to either surrender my totaled car or pay off the negative equity
Is electrolysis of alumina (Al2O3) without cryolite possible to produce pure Aluminum?
Do most people not have a stringent moral system?
What is the least conspicuous way to bring a hidden junction box with MWBC junction to code compliance?
Given two normal distributions X and Y with fixed Spearman Correlation, do they have a well-defined Pearson Correlation (and vice-versa)?
How to kern letters and put them higher or lower depending on the previous letter?
Can Boo steal partially used items in Mario Kart World?
How to cut a tetrahedron in half using only a pencil and a knife?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-cs
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.15.33996