Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ to hit AMC theatres : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Taylor Swift’s ‘The Life of a Showgirl’ to hit AMC theatres The global music icon is celebrating the release of her 12th studio album in theaters next month. Her Eras Tour movie, released with AMC in 2023, is the highest-grossing concert film of all time.
Music News
Taylor Swift upcoming 'The Life of a Showgirl' to hit movie theatres
September 20, 20255:18 PM ET
By
Ava Pukatch
Taylor Swift attends an event at the Toronto International Film Festival on Sept. 9, 2022.
Evan Agostini/Invision/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Evan Agostini/Invision/AP
The showgirl is headed back to the big screen. Global music icon Taylor Swift is bringing her upcoming 12th studio album The Life of a Showgirl to theaters, coinciding with the album's Oct. 3 release date. "I hereby invite you to a *dazzling* soirée, The Official Release Party of a Showgirl: Oct 3 - Oct 5 only in cinemas!" the singer wrote on social media.
I hereby invite you to a *dazzling* soirée, The Official Release Party of a Showgirl: Oct 3 - Oct 5 only in cinemas! You’ll get to see the exclusive world premiere of the music video for my new single “The Fate of Ophelia”, along with never before seen behind-the-scenes footage… pic.twitter.com/4gpA1Or2xT— Taylor Swift (@taylorswift13) September 19, 2025
The 89-minute movie, a nod to Swift's birth year and fifth studio album, is set to include the world premiere of the music video for Swift's new single "The Fate of Ophelia," one of the 12 tracks on the upcoming album. Fans can also expect to see behind the scenes footage from the music video shoot, new lyric videos and "never-before-seen personal reflections" from the singer on songs from the album. "Dancing is optional but very much encouraged," the singer said on social media.
Sponsor Message
Swift is again partnering with AMC Theatres to distribute the release. The Official Release Party of a Showgirl will play in all 540 AMC Theatres locations in North America with other screenings in Cinemark and Regal theatres. AMC said it also plans to screen the show across Mexico, Canada and Europe. AMC said the show will begin at its scheduled showtime, with no trailers or ads. Swift released The Eras Tour concert film with AMC in 2023, which grossed more than $261 million at the global box office, according to AMC, making it the highest-grossing concert film of all time. The Life of a Showgirl is Swift's first new album since announcing she bought back the rights to her master recordings from Shamrock Capital in May. She revealed the album in August during an appearance on the New Heights podcast which is hosted by her fiancé, Kansas City Chief's tight end Travis Kelce, and his brother, retired Philadelphia Eagles player Jason Kelce.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor