Best VPN for iPhone 2025: Improve Your Privacy on the Go - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
Best VPN for iPhone 2025: Improve Your Privacy on the Go
Enhance your privacy while surfing the web, stream foreign Netflix libraries, unblock regional sports streaming games and avoid mobile traffic shaping with the best iPhone VPNs on the market.
Article updated on August 16, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Written by
Rae Hodge
Written by
Sam Dawson
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Rae Hodge Former senior editor Rae Hodge was a senior editor at CNET. She led CNET's coverage of privacy and cybersecurity tools from July 2019 to January 2023. As a data-driven investigative journalist on the software and services team, she reviewed VPNs, password managers, antivirus software, anti-surveillance methods and ethics in tech. Prior to joining CNET in 2019, Rae spent nearly a decade covering politics and protests for the AP, NPR, the BBC and other local and international outlets.
See full bio
Sam Dawson Cybersecurity Expert Sam Dawson is a cybersecurity expert and VPN reviewer. After making the leap from academic research into the world of tech writing, Sam found his advocacy for data privacy was a natural fit for the team at ProPrivacy. He has since gone freelance, working for outlets such as TechRadar, TomsGuide, ITPro, and CNET, as well as continuing to conduct research in everything from VPN obfuscation techniques to dark web data leaks.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
What to consider
Privacy
Look for industry AES 256-bit encryption (over the OpenVPN and IKEv2 VPN protocols) and ChaCha20 (with WireGuard or IKEv2). Additionally, a reliable VPN should have a kill switch, DNS leak protection and an audited no-logs policy. Privacy-critical users may appreciate a VPN provider based in privacy-friendly jurisdiction and advanced features like obfuscated servers, Tor-over-VPN, multi-hop connections and RAM-only server infrastructure.
Speed
All VPNs slow down your internet connection somewhat but the fastest VPNs only reduce your internet download speeds by an average of 25% or less. The best-performing VPNs we benchmarked only dropped our speeds by less than 20%.
Usability
A solid VPN for iPhone should be simple to use, whether you're a newcomer or a seasoned tech user, so that you can easily hop on a server and access different settings.
Device support
In addition to iOS and iPadOS, you may want to consider other devices you want to use a VPN on. Most quality VPN providers also support Windows, MacOS, Linux and Android/Android TV. VPN support for Apple TV is becoming increasingly common. Some VPNs offer Linux GUI apps, which are easier to use than CLI apps for new Linux users. And many VPNs also offer router support for whole-network coverage that lets you use the service with devices that don't have native VPN apps, like game consoles.
Cost
VPN pricing varies but you can expect to pay anywhere from $5 to $15 per month for a monthly VPN subscription plan. You can usually save money by choosing an annual rather than monthly subscription, with prices ranging from $30 to $100 per year. While multi-year bundles often offer the most savings, we typically recommend sticking with an annual plan for the most savings and the least risk.
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best overall VPN for iPhone
Surfshark
Extensive features at a great price
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at Surfshark
8.6
/10
SCORE
Usability
9
Value
9
Speed
8
Privacy
8
Features
9
Pros
Lots of unique privacy features
Split tunneling on iOS
Unlimited simultaneous connections
Great iOS/iPadOS, MacOS, Apple TV and non-Apple apps
Cons
14-Eyes jurisdiction (Netherlands)
Expensive monthly plan
Major renewal price increase
Price
$15.45 a month, $48 for the first 15 months (then $79 a year) or $60 for the first 27 months (then $79 a year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 21% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,200-plus servers in 100 countriesJurisdiction
Netherlands
Why we like it If you’re looking for a cheaper alternative to high-priced VPNs like ExpressVPN and NordVPN, but still want a premium VPN experience, Surfshark is a great choice. Surfshark’s iOS app is slick, packed with useful privacy features and works just as well as its expensive peers. The app connects in a snap and settings are easily accessible with just a few taps. All in all, it’s a top-notch VPN for iPhone that’s fast, user-friendly and excellent for streaming when you’re on the go.Why we like itLike many other VPNs, Surfshark’s iOS app offers standard features like a kill switch, quick-connect and protocol selection (WireGuard, OpenVPN and IKEv2). Like other top VPNs, Surfshark includes standard privacy protections like an audited no-logs policy and DNS leak protection. But Surfshark’s iPhone app includes a few extras like an ad blocker, static IP, Rotating IP that automatically changes your IP address every few minutes and Dynamic Multihop, which allows you to tunnel through any two server locations of your choosing. Notably, Surfshark also offers split-tunneling on its iOS app, a feature that most other VPNs no longer offer for Apple devices. We also like that Surfshark gives you the option to pause your connection instead of disconnecting outright, which can be helpful if you need to take care of a few things while off the VPN but don’t want to forget to turn it back on when you want to protect your privacy. But what really sets Surfshark apart from the competition is its Alternative ID feature that lets you generate a fake persona that includes a full name, physical address and email address that you can use to fill out forms and sign up for stuff online without having to use your actual personal information. Alternative ID features are included with all subscription plans, but an Alternative Number feature is also available for an extra $3 per month, letting you receive calls and communicate via text without having to divulge your actual phone number.
Read more
Surfshark isn’t the fastest VPN, but it’s still relatively speedy and plenty fast enough for general online browsing, as well as more data-heavy activities like streaming and gaming on your iPhone. In our 2025 speed tests, we calculated a total average speed loss of 21%, which is slower than NordVPN’s astounding 3% speed loss but more in line with Proton VPN’s 16% speed loss and ExpressVPN’s 18%. Either way, if your network connection is fast enough to begin with, Surfshark’s speeds still shouldn’t noticeably impact your online activity.In our streaming tests, Surfshark performed exceptionally well on iOS, unblocking content on popular streaming sites like Amazon Prime Video, Disney Plus, Hulu, Netflix and HBO Max -- through various global server locations. And with a massive network of over 3,000 servers in 100 different countries, Surfshark can help give you access to a vast amount of international streaming content on your iPhone whether you’re at home or traveling the world. Surfshark's long-term plans offer a lot of value when compared with ExpressVPN's and NordVPN's pricing, especially considering Surfshark's unlimited simultaneous connection allowance. The annual plan costs $48 for the first year, and the two-year plan costs $60 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $79 annually). However, Surfshark's monthly subscription costs $15.45 per month, which is more expensive than just about any other VPN's monthly rate, so for the best value, we recommend sticking with an annual plan. All subscription plans are backed by a 30-day money-back guarantee in case you're not satisfied with the service.Also nominated in: Best VPN for Amazon Prime Video, Best VPN for Netflix
Photo Gallery 1/1
The best iPhone VPN for beginners
ExpressVPN
Privacy protection and transparency
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
73% off with 2yr plan (+4 free months). Now only $3.49/month
See Price at ExpressVPN
9
/10
SCORE
Usability
10
Value
7
Speed
9
Privacy
10
Features
9
Pros
Streamlined, easy-to-use app across iOS/iPadOS, MacOS and non-Apple platforms alike
Strong privacy and transparency
Forward-thinking security enhancements
Excellent for streaming
Privacy-friendly jurisdiction (British Virgin Islands)
Cons
Extremely expensive
No way to opt-out of potentially unwanted extra features
Only eight simultaneous connections
Price
$13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 per year)Latest Tests
No DNS leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
3,000 plus servers in 105 countriesJurisdiction
British Virgin Islands
Why we like it ExpressVPN is the best iPhone VPN for beginners because its iOS app is a breeze to use and because the service delivers industry-leading privacy protections, fast speeds and excellent streaming capabilities. The app's minimalist interface is simple to navigate and includes all the basic features you'd want in a VPN app, like a kill switch, protocol selection (Lightway, IKEv2) and easy access to servers. You'll also have access to Advanced Protection features that you can set to block ads, malware, trackers and adult sites. Additional tools you'll have on hand include a DNS leak test, WebRTC leak test and IP address checker -- which make it easy to ensure the VPN is working properly when you're on the go. In July 2025, ExpressVPN revealed that it now offers servers in all 50 of the United States, making it a great choice for traveling to and within the US, or streaming regional sports, like NFL and NBA games.Why we like itIf you want to stream your favorite shows and movies on your iPhone, ExpressVPN is an excellent option. The 18% average speed loss we measured in our most recent speed tests means ExpressVPN should be plenty fast for streaming and other data-heavy online activities. During our latest tests with ExpressVPN's iOS app, we were able to access content on popular streaming services like Amazon Prime Video, Disney Plus, Hulu, Netflix and HBO Max.Privacy-focused folks will appreciate ExpressVPN’s forward-thinking privacy initiatives and its strong commitment to transparency. Its post-quantum protections help protect your data from future threats from quantum computers and are built into the Lightway protocol -- so you don’t have to do anything other than connect through Lightway to benefit from post-quantum protections. ShuffleIP is another privacy feature that changes your IP address for every website you visit, making it even more difficult to track you online when using the service. Like ExpressVPN’s post-quantum protections, ShuffleIP works in the background so you don’t need to enable it separately. During our latest tests, the kill switch worked as expected on iOS and we detected no leaks. ExpressVPN's no-logs policy is regularly audited, offering additional peace of mind.
Read more
With ExpressVPN, you'll get the best overall VPN and one of the best iPhone VPNs you can buy. If you’ve got other devices to connect, ExpressVPN lets you link up to eight simultaneously. But with its premium service comes a premium price tag -- one that far outpaces most of the competition. The monthly plan costs $13 per month, which is in the same ballpark as what most VPNs charge per month. But ExpressVPN's longer-term plans are considerably more expensive than many of its competitors, including Surfshark, Proton VPN, NordVPN and Mullvad. The yearly plan costs $100 for the first year and the two-year plan costs $140 for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $117 annually). The yearly and two-year plans include additional identity protection features, which you're essentially forced to pay extra for even if you don't want or need them. However, company representatives tell us that ExpressVPN is working on overhauling its pricing structure to offer more value for budget-conscious users. ExpressVPN offers a seven-day free trial in addition to a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you can give the service a try before committing.Also nominated in: Best VPN for Apple TV, Best VPNs for Streaming
Photo Gallery 1/1
Fastest VPN for iPhone
NordVPN
Perfect for power users
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at NordVPN
8.8
/10
SCORE
Usability
8
Value
8
Speed
10
Privacy
9
Features
9
Pros
User-friendly apps on iOS, iPadOS, MacOS, Apple TV and non-Apple platforms
Blazing-fast internet speeds
Strong privacy
Great for streaming service unblocking
Cons
Inconsistent pricing structure
High renewal pricing
Price
$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 per year)Latest tests
No leaks detected, 3% average internet download speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
7,400-plus servers in 118 countriesJurisdiction
Panama
Why we like it NordVPN is the fastest VPN for iPhones, making it an excellent choice for bandwidth-intensive activities like streaming videos, gaming or hopping on Zoom calls. Its astounding 3% speed loss in our 2025 tests was significantly faster than the rest of the pack. Across the board, from its iOS and iPadOS to MacOS, Windows and Android apps, NordVPN is user-friendly, with a familiar app experience regardless of the platform. In our testing, NordVPN’s iPhone app was slick and intuitive, with easy access to settings like protocol selection (OpenVPN and NordLynx), server selection, specialty servers and Threat Protection. Why we like itIts generous global network of 8,000-plus servers across 126 countries makes NordVPN a solid choice for international travel and streaming service unblocking. We effortlessly unblocked content on many streaming apps, including Amazon Prime Video, Disney Plus, Netflix and BBC iPlayer. Its blazing-fast server speeds make it one of the best VPNs for streaming. While Nord’s superb entertainment support is great for casual VPN users seeking basic privacy or streaming content unblocking, its robust privacy chops make it a compelling choice for folks with serious privacy needs, like concerned torrenters. Its proprietary NordWhisper VPN protocol is designed to mimic standard web traffic, and therefore may slip through school Wi-Fi firewalls and other networks that restrict VPN use. Specialty servers like Tor Over VPN and double hop beef up your privacy, making it even more difficult to trace your web traffic back to your device. And Meshnet is a unique privacy feature that lets you create a virtual network to host remote LAN parties for gaming, seamlessly access streaming services while traveling or avoid CAPTCHAs. NordVPN also includes a strict no-logs policy that's been independently audited, along with DNS leak protection.
Read more
At $13 a month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years, NordVPN is competitively priced, considering its rich privacy feature set and generous 10 simultaneous connection allowance. But the one- and two-year plans rise to an astronomical $140 per year, which is borderline extortionate. You can avoid a pricey auto-renewal by stacking subscriptions, but we’d prefer a more budget-friendly renewal price. But if you want blisteringly fast connectivity, NordVPN is a fantastic choice for streaming on your iPhone, iPad, MacBook or Apple TV. Your purchase is backed by an industry-standard 30-day money-back guarantee.Also nominated in: Fastest VPNs, Best VPNs for Netflix
Photo Gallery 1/1
The most versatile VPN for iPhone
Proton VPN
The only free plan we recommend
Show our expert take
Show our expert take
See Price at Proton VPN
8
/10
SCORE
Security
9
Usability
8
Value
7
Speed
8
Privacy
8
Features
9
Pros
Open-source apps
Fast speeds
Excellent for streaming
Useful privacy features
Impressive server network
Cons
No 24/7 live chat support yet
Latest tests
No leaks detected, 16% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork
12,000-plus servers in 117 countriesJurisdiction
SwitzerlandPrice
$10 a month, $60 for the first year or $108 for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $80 per year)
Why we like it Proton VPN is the best (and only) free VPN that we recommend for iPhone or any other platform. But Proton’s exceptional premium VPN plan is a worthy upgrade -- or alternative to other paid VPN rivals. We particularly like the option to create custom server group profiles and easy access to settings like protocol selection (WireGuard, Stealth), kill switch, NetShield and VPN Accelerator. Why we like itProton VPN's free plan doesn’t sell your user data, limit your monthly use or plaster your screen with ads. But you can’t select a server manually, you’re limited to servers in five countries, and you can only connect on one device at a time. By comparison, its paid plan provides 14,900-plus servers in 122 countries, lets you jump on any server you want and allows for up to 10 simultaneous connections, which is excellent for multi-device users.Where Proton VPN excels is its balance of remaining privacy-forward but great for casual VPN users. It’s fast, outstanding for streaming and prioritizes privacy. The iOS home screen was redesigned in April 2025, making it more user-friendly and easier to access favorite server locations or customize settings. You’ll get some unique privacy features, like its proprietary Stealth VPN protocol that’s designed to bypass VPN blocks. Android users can access guest mode to use Proton VPN without creating an account, and the company said that feature is coming to iOS and iPadOS in 2025. Proton VPN also has an independently audited no-logs policy and DNS leak protection.
Read more
During our tests, Proton unblocked nearly every streaming service we tried, including some tough-to-access ones, like Egypt Netflix libraries -- ExpressVPN and Surfshark were the only other VPNs we tested that were able to load Netflix Egypt. Whether you want to boost your privacy, need to stream geo-protected content or want a generous global server network for travel, Proton VPN is a great choice. While some VPNs like ExpressVPN are slightly more user-friendly, and others like Mullvad may be marginally more private, it’s hard to find a VPN that balances intuitive app design with streaming unblocking as well as Proton does.Proton VPN costs $10 per month, $60 for the first year or $108 total for the first two years combined (the one- and two-year plans renew at $80 annually). Priced in the middle of the value-packed Surfshark and the premium ExpressVPN, Proton VPN is a solid overall investment that provides fast speeds, unique and useful privacy amenities plus excellent streaming service unblocking capabilities. All plans include a 30-day money-back guarantee.Also nominated in: Best Free VPN, Best VPN for Amazon Prime Video
VPN DEALS OF THE WEEK
Norton VPN Plus for 72% Off Your First Year:  $30 (save $80)
Surfshark VPN: $1.99 Per Month + 3 Months Free (87% Off 2 Years Starter Plan):  $2 (save $5)
Norton Secure VPN: $3.33 Per Month for 5 Devices (50% Off 1 Year Plan):  $50 (save $60)
NordVPN: $4.39 Per Month + $20 Amazon Gift Card (70% Off 2 Years Plus Plan):  $4 (save $9)
ExpressVPN: $4.99 Per Month + 4 Months Free (64% Off 2 Years Plan):  $5 (save $8) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best VPN for iPhone 2025: Improve Your Privacy on the Go
The best VPNs for iPhones in 2025
Factors to consider in the best iPhone VPNs
How we test iPhone VPNs
Other iPhone VPNs we tested
What is the best free VPN for iPhone?
What is the best VPN if I only care about streaming?
What to look forward to in 2025
iPhone VPN FAQs
The best VPNs for iPhones in 2025
Screenshot/CNETSurfshark is the best VPN for iPhones overall. We appreciate that Surfshark offers split tunneling on iOS and MacOS, not just on Windows and Android -- a rarity among VPN providers. Despite its relatively wallet-friendly pricing, Surfshark doesn't compromise on features, including advanced privacy settings or speed. You can use Surfshark on as many devices as you want simultaneously, which is great if you have a household full of devices you want to protect, and more generous than most competitors.
Surfshark's app delivers tons of features at a budget-friendly price. Surfshark/Screenshot by CNETExpressVPN is the best iPhone VPN for beginners, thanks to its excellent privacy protection and streamlined, user-friendly mobile interface on iOS and iPadOS (as well as Android and all other platforms for that matter). In July 2025, ExpressVPN announced that its server network included connection options in all 50 of the United States, making it a great choice for travel and for unblocking regional sports, like NFL or WNBA games. It's a great overall VPN, although you'll pay more for that excellence -- ExpressVPN is more expensive than most of its rivals.
Screenshot/CNETNordVPN is the fastest VPN for iPhones, delivering blazing-fast speeds perfect for 4K video streaming or online mobile gaming. Its fast server speeds, coupled with an impressive global roster of 8,000-plus servers in 126 countries, make NordVPN one of the best iPhone VPNs for streaming and travel.
NordVPN offers servers in more locations than most VPNs. NordVPN/Screenshot by CNETProton VPN is the most versatile iPhone VPN, offering an impressive server network alongside customizable settings and features that are great for power users. Proton is privacy-focused and open-source, and it performed well in our latest speed tests, trailing only NordVPN.The Best iPhone VPNs compared
SurfsharkExpressVPNNordVPNProton VPNPrice $15 per month, $48 the first year or $60 for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $79 per year)$13 per month, $100 for the first year or $140 for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $117 per year) $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 for two years (one- and two-year plans auto-renew at $140 per year)$10 per month, $60 for the first year or $108 for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $80 per year) Server network 3,200-plus servers in 100 countries3,000-plus servers in 105 countries8,000-plus servers in 126 countries14,900-plus servers in 122 countriesAverage internet speed loss 21%18%3%16%Simultaneous connections Unlimited81010Supported Apple devices iPhone, iPad, Mac laptops and desktops, Apple TViPhone, iPad, Mac laptops and desktops, Apple TViPhone, iPad, Mac laptops and desktops, Apple TViPhone, iPad, Mac laptops and desktops, Apple TVSupported platforms Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Fire TV, Web browsers, RoutersWindows, MacOS, Linux, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Fire TV, Web browsers, RoutersWindows, MacOS, Linux, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Fire TV, Web browsers, RoutersWindows, MacOS, Linux, Android, Android TV, iOS, iPadOS, Apple TV, Fire TV, Web browsers, Routers
A virtual private network, or VPN, enhances your iPhone's privacy by masking your public IP address, so your ISP or mobile carrier can't see what websites you visit or apps you use. Likewise, apps and websites you use won't be able to tell where you're actually connecting from because your public IP address -- which is like a street address -- is hidden, meaning you can appear like you're in another city, state or even country.Because VPNs can make apps think you're in a different geographical area, you can unblock region-restricted content, such as foreign Netflix libraries or global Amazon Prime Video content. Using a VPN, you can watch Wednesday on Netflix from anywhere around the world, stream Murdoch Mysteries on CBC Gem from outside Canada and unblock regional sports streaming content, like NFL or WNBA games. If your mobile carrier throttles video streaming on a cellular connection, you may even experience faster speeds and therefore better streaming video quality on your phone using a VPN.Our team of experts at CNET has rigorously tested dozens of the top VPN providers on multiple platforms, including iOS and iPadOS. We evaluated each service based on several factors, including privacy features, internet speed loss, user-friendly app design, streaming service content unblocking and overall value for the money. Whether you want to avoid streaming video throttling on a cellular connection, need to unblock geographically restricted streaming movies and shows or are traveling internationally for the summer but need access to content from your home country without grappling with annoying CAPTCHAs, one of the best iPhone VPNs is a great addition to your app arsenal.
Show more
Factors to consider in the best iPhone VPNs
Downloading a VPN app, creating an account, choosing a plan and connecting to your VPN shouldn't take longer than a minute or so. Nelson Aguilar/CNETWith so many iPhone VPN apps available, it can be difficult to choose the right one. Based on our extensive research and hands-on testing of VPNs over the years, these are the factors to look out for when choosing the best VPN for iPhone:PrivacyThe most important factor to consider with any VPN is privacy. You should never use a VPN provider if you can’t trust that it's taking your privacy seriously. Every VPN worth its salt should provide AES 256-bit encryption over either OpenVPN or IKEv2 VPN protocols at the bare minimum. If it also offers ChaCha20 over WireGuard, you’ll get all the protection you expect plus a nice speed boost over most other protocols. Your VPN should also have basic privacy features such as a kill switch, which protects you if your VPN connection unexpectedly goes down, DNS leak protection to stop your ISP from reading your website requests and a solid no-logs policy that is regularly audited. We recommend checking any provider’s privacy policy and reading its audit reports closely, as it’ll give you a good understanding of whether a VPN provider is serious about your privacy. If you notice a mention of data collection or sharing practices in a VPN's privacy policy that don't sit well with you, then it's best to trust your gut and look for a different provider.If your privacy needs are critical, then you’ll need to look for a provider that goes above and beyond the standard privacy considerations. Your VPN should be based in a jurisdiction that has strong privacy laws that don't mandate data retention or logging. Choosing a provider that offers obfuscation is also necessary if you’re in a region or network that restricts or bans VPN use outright because it can help hide the fact that you're using a VPN in the first place. Many of the best VPNs are also rolling out post-quantum protections that help protect against potential future threats from quantum computers, which is essential for privacy-critical users now and in the future. Finally, your provider should offer either a RAM-only server infrastructure or employ full-disk encryption on its hard drives, both of which can help ensure that your data remains secure. There are also some other privacy features that aren’t as vital but still useful, such as ad-blockers, Tor over VPN and multihop connections. Speed Your VPN's connection speeds can have a major influence on the quality of your streaming, downloading, video conferencing, gaming and general web-browsing activities. All VPNs slow down your internet somewhat, simply by nature of encrypting your traffic and routing it through one or more remote servers. To keep things running as smoothly as possible, you'll want a VPN that will have as minimal an impact on your regular internet speeds as possible. Generally, we've found that the best VPNs for iPhone only drop your internet download speed by an average of 25% or less. In our testing, we've seen as low as an average 3% internet download speed loss. For bandwidth-demanding applications like competitive gaming or video streaming, you'll want a fast VPN.
ProviderSpeed loss Surfshark 21%ExpressVPN 18%NordVPN 3%PIA 49%
UsabilityA good VPN for iPhone should run smoothly and be easy to use, regardless of your technical expertise. It should have all of the features you need easily accessible with a tap of your finger. Many of the best iPhone VPN apps also include an easy way to get in touch with support directly from the device, which can be helpful if you need assistance on the go. Basically, your VPN app should be as easy for you to use as your iPhone itself. It should have a large network of servers around the world so you can connect easily and reliably from wherever you may be traveling and be able to help you access geo-restricted content from various regions. Server networkThink about the cities, states and countries you travel to the most, or want to make it look like you're connecting from. Most of our top-rated VPNs feature thousands of servers in 100-plus countries. Large server networks benefit travel, since you can find a server near where you are for the fastest-possible connection -- usually, the closer you are physically to a VPN server, the less speed loss you'll experience. Additionally, a generous VPN server network is great for streaming-service unblocking and bypassing regional content blocks, since you've got a better chance of finding servers in countries you need to make it look like you're in. Plus, more servers may help maintain better internet speeds, because servers overloaded with users may slow down.Alongside the total number of servers and countries, think about specialty servers. Some VPN providers, including ExpressVPN, let you torrent on any servers, whereas other VPN providers, like NordVPN and Proton VPN, have P2P servers optimized for peer-to-peer file-sharing. Certain VPN providers offer servers with beefed-up privacy. For instance, you might find a double VPN, or multihop, VPN servers that feature a second VPN connection to make it even more difficult to trace your web traffic back to its source (your device). Likewise, some VPN companies have Tor over VPN, or Onion over VPN servers, which make it harder to trace your internet traffic back to its source (again, your device). Tor over VPN and double VPN servers tout similar benefits, with the main difference being that multihop relies on a pair of VPN connections, while onion VPN uses a combination of Tor and a VPN connection simultaneously.
Streaming service unblockingThere are many reasons to use a VPN, from privacy for web browsing to travel. Because VPNs route your web traffic through encrypted servers, apps you use and websites you visit will think you're in a different location, which is based on the server you're tunneling through. For instance, if you're in New York City but connected to a server in the UK, apps like Netflix will think you're across the pond. Many streaming services, like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, HBO Max, BBC iPlayer and CBC Gem, rely on your IP address to load content. Depending on your IP address, which contains general geographical information, the content library might vary a lot or you may not be able to access anything at all. But with a VPN, you can bypass regional restrictions to unblock content on Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and other services. Using a VPN for streaming could even help you save money. CostDepending on your budget, you may want to take into account the cost and overall value of your iPhone VPN before making a purchase. VPN pricing can vary greatly from provider to provider but you can typically expect to spend about $5 to $15 per month for a monthly VPN subscription plan. If you want to save some money, you can choose an annual subscription, where prices can range from roughly $30 to $100 per year. You'll want to be careful with free VPNs because you may end up risking your privacy instead of protecting it. Many free VPNs have slow speeds or have unreliable connections that frequently drop because of overloaded servers. Some even actively degrade your privacy, logging any internet activity through the VPN for sale to third parties or injecting ads into your browsing sessions. Even paid VPNs have varying degrees of usability, privacy protections, speeds and streaming capabilities. Proton VPN is currently the only free VPN that CNET recommends. Most premium VPNs offer a money-back guarantee anywhere from a week to 45 days. You can also get a seven-day free trial with many VPNs when you sign up through Apple's App Store, so you have options to try various iPhone VPNs risk-free before you decide whether to fully invest in one. Luckily, there are plenty of ways to save money on your VPN subscription. Device supportWhile you'll want a VPN for iPhone that works well on iOS, you may have other devices that you want to run a VPN on. Most VPNs work on Windows, MacOS, Linux PCs and Android devices. While Android TV and Fire TV apps are common for use on streaming devices, Apple TV apps are still on the rise. Providers like NordVPN, ExpressVPN, Proton VPN, Surfshark, PIA and IPVanish offer Apple TV VPN apps. (Disclosure: IPVanish is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.) Think about the devices you want to install a VPN app on and make sure your desired VPN provider supports those gadgets.
IPVanishSurfsharkPIAProtonVPNExpressVPNNordVPNWindows ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️MacOS ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️Linux ✔️✔️ (with GUI)✔️ (with GUI)✔️ (with GUI)✔️ (with GUI)✔️ (with GUI)Android/AndroidTV ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️iOS/iPadOS ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️Fire TV ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️Smart TV* ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️Apple TV ✔️✔️✔️✔️ ✔️✔️Router ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️Browser plugin** ✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️✔️Simultaneous connections UnlimitedUnlimitedUnlimited10810
James Martin/CNET How we test iPhone VPNs
PIA's apps offer a lot of options for customization. PIA/Screenshot by CNETWhen we evaluate the best iPhone VPNs, we spend weeks testing the features offered on each VPN's iPhone app to see how they compare to the competition. We carefully consider the look and feel of the app and the overall usability of the software, including how easy it is to establish a connection, bearing in mind the generally smooth user experience iPhone users are accustomed to. We test the performance and reliability of the VPN connection on each of the protocols available in the provider's iPhone app, while paying special attention to how the app performs when switching between Wi-Fi and a mobile network. We test for leaks and ensure each service's kill switch is working as it should, in addition to testing the functionality of every other feature available on the VPN's iPhone app. If a provider offers unique features (or includes a rare-to-iPhone feature like split-tunneling) we make sure to call them out and document our experience using them. Many VPNs also offer easy access to customer support directly from their iPhone app, so we test that functionality and evaluate how seamlessly the app is able to connect the user with a support agent as well as the general effectiveness of the support itself. We test each VPN's ability to circumvent geographical restrictions and access content on popular streaming sites on the iPhone, while taking into account previously-tested speed performance and noting any issues with buffering or stream quality. Finally, we evaluate each provider's pricing to determine the service's overall value.
Show more
Other iPhone VPNs we tested
PIAPrivate Internet Access is a decent cheap VPN that undercuts most of its rivals at $12 per month, $40 for the first year (renewing at $50 annually) or $79 every three years. We like its customizable apps and privacy-forward design that includes open-source apps as well as a reader-friendly privacy policy. PIA is one of the few VPN providers that offers split tunneling on MacOS, so Apple aficionados may appreciate the flexibility to route some apps but not others through a VPN. However, PIA’s high 48% average speed loss is about double what you can typically expect from a fast VPN, making it a tough sell for folks with slow or unreliable internet connections. Additionally, we experienced many CAPTCHAs with PIA when trying to access websites like Google. And its app design, while mostly user-friendly, felt outdated compared to most of the competition. While PIA is a good budget VPN, for a little bit more money, you can get a lot more value with a VPN like Surfshark or Proton VPN.Read our PIA review.IPVanishIPVanish's iPhone app is fairly easy to use and includes a prominent "Connect" button on the home screen that'll get you connected quickly. If you navigate to the "locations" screen to select a specific server, you can either connect to the "optimal location" or choose from a list of servers. However, after you've connected, there's no indication of whether you're connected or not unless you navigate back to the home screen. Even if you connect to the optimal location, the Connect button on the locations screen still says "Connect" -- which can lead to some confusion. Although IPVanish's iPhone app isn't as streamlined as the others on this list, it includes split tunneling functionality -- a feature most VPNs don't offer with their iPhone apps. Even so, it's difficult to enthusiastically recommend IPVanish to iPhone users considering that far superior services are available for the same price or cheaper. IPVanish costs $13 per month, $40 for the first year or $53 for the first two years combined. However (as this information is not made sufficiently clear on IPVanish's pricing page), be advised that the price of the annual plan more than doubles to $156 a year on the annual plan, and $312 total for two years of service on the two-year tier after the initial term. Also, IPVanish's 30-day money-back guarantee only applies to the annual and two-year subscription plans, not the monthly plan. (Disclosure: IPVanish is owned by CNET's parent company, Ziff Davis.)  Read our IPVanish review.
Show more
What is the best free VPN for iPhone?
The only free VPN for iPhone that we recommend is Proton VPN. Its free tier employs the same encryption standards as its premium tier, doesn't impose any use or speed limitations and doesn't sell your data. There's no shortage of free VPN options available for iPhone, but we generally don't recommend most free VPNs for a number of reasons. First, many free VPNs make money by collecting your personal data and selling it to third parties -- putting your privacy at risk and defeating the purpose of using a VPN in the first place. Many free VPNs may also inundate you with annoying pop-ups and unwanted advertisements, and some may even contain malware. Additionally, free VPNs impose limitations on use, are burdened by overcrowded servers (which can negatively affect speeds and stability), typically lack streaming support and often employ substandard encryption.
Show more
What is the best VPN if I only care about streaming?
In our testing, ExpressVPN was the VPN that performed the best for streaming on iPhone as well as on every other device we tested. If your main priority is to unblock international streaming content on your iPhone with a VPN, we recommend going with ExpressVPN because it has proven year after year in our tests to be the most reliable service for geo-unblocking content from all over the world.
Show more
What to look forward to in 2025
The best VPNs for iPhone are already highly intuitive and deliver exceptional performance on iOS devices. But you can expect even more refinements throughout 2025 and beyond in terms of performance and features. Specifically, many of the top VPNs have been rolling out additional services such as password managers, antivirus protection, secure email and identity protection features that you can bundle with the VPN service. We've started seeing many of these additional features added to existing VPN apps but we're likely to see them integrated more into a single app for each provider instead of having multiple apps for each of your bundled services. We're also likely to see a greater degree of parity between apps on different platforms (especially with more providers re-implementing split tunneling on iPhone and other Apple apps), so users can have access to the same set of features regardless of which operating system they're using. Additionally, we'll see providers committing to more regular audits, refining their pricing structures and a wider implementation of forward-thinking privacy features such as post-quantum protection.In June 2025, ExpressVPN revealed the completion of a successful audit performed by KPMG LLP, which found no evidence of logging. Proton announced a successful SOC Type II audit in July 2025, which confirmed that the company has strong security in place and moreover, reliably follows that practice. Surfshark revealed in June 2025 that it underwent an audit by Deloitte that found no evidence of logging practices. In February 2025, NordVPN announced that Deloitte audited its no-logging claims, finding no evidence of logging. The company released the results of a successful app assessment handled by Cure53, which concluded that NordVPN had strong VPN features that work as intended.
Show more
iPhone VPN FAQs
What's the best iPhone VPN right now?
Surfshark is our choice for best iPhone VPN, thanks to its suite of useful features, easy-to-use app and the rare ability to enable split tunneling on iOS. ExpressVPN is our runner-up for the best iPhone VPN due to to its reliability, responsiveness and ease of use. NordVPN, is the best VPN for iPhone power users who want best-in-class internet download speeds and exceptional streaming support. ProtonVPN offers the only free VPN plan we recommend and is a versatile VPN for people who enjoy customizing their settings.
Show more
Should you use a VPN on your iPhone?
You should use a VPN on your iPhone if you need to boost your privacy by keeping your internet activity hidden from your ISP, access geographically restricted content like foreign Netflix libraries or circumvent throttling and censorship restrictions. Using a VPN on your iPhone is a great way to protect your privacy when you're on the go.
Show more
Do iPhones come with a built-in VPN?
No, iPhones do not have a built-in VPN app, but there is a built-in VPN client in iOS that lets you connect to a VPN server. But the easiest way to use a VPN on your iPhone or iPad is by downloading your VPN provider's app.
Show more
Do iPhone VPNs leak traffic?
Recent independent research claims that VPNs on iOS devices leak user traffic outside of the VPN tunnel, unencrypted. VPN providers have pointed out that the vulnerability exists on Apple’s side and affects all VPNs on iOS devices. Proton VPN outlined a workaround to the issue in a blog post, advising iOS VPN users to connect to a VPN server, enable Airplane mode (to kill existing internet connections and temporarily disable the VPN) and disable Airplane mode. The VPN should then reconnect with all internet connections running through the VPN tunnel. Proton notes that it’s not a 100% guarantee that the VPN will be rendered leak-free through this process, but it can only help.
Show more
What does my ISP/mobile carrier see when I'm connected to my VPN?
Your internet service provider or mobile carrier can see that you're connected to a VPN, but it won’t be able to see the websites you visit or your browsing history, because your iPhone VPN encrypts your online traffic. Your ISP/mobile carrier will also see things like the IP address of the VPN server you're connected to, the time stamps of when you're connected and the amount of data you've transmitted. If you want to hide the fact that you’re using a VPN altogether, you can connect to an obfuscated server, if offered by your VPN.
Show more
How do I set up a VPN on my iPhone?
The easiest way to set up a VPN on your iPhone is by downloading your VPN provider's app from Apple's App Store. Then, fire up the app, punch in your login credentials and tap "Connect" or "On" -- the exact phrasing may differ -- to enable your VPN. To turn off a VPN on your iPhone, tap the "Disconnect" or "Off" button.
Show more
Can I use my VPN on multiple devices besides my iPhone?
Yes, the best VPNs for iPhone all allow for multiple simultaneous connections, which is great if you want to use a VPN on other devices -- like a MacBook, Windows PC, Android device smart TV or streaming device. Typically, you'll be able to connect at least five to 10 simultaneous devices, with a few services offering unlimited connections.
Show more
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.