AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news feature
article
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
Download PDF
NEWS FEATURE
17 September 2025
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
The complexity of vocal communication in some primates, whales and birds might approach that of human language.
By
Rachel Fieldhouse0
Rachel Fieldhouse
Rachel Fieldhouse is a reporter for Nature in Sydney, Australia.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Illustration: David Parkins
Deep in the rainforests of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Mélissa Berthet found bonobos doing something thought to be uniquely human.How to detect consciousness in people, animals and maybe even AIDuring the six months that Berthet observed the primates, they combined calls in several ways to make complex phrases1. In one example, bonobos (Pan paniscus) that were building nests together added a yelp, meaning ‘let’s do this’, to a grunt that says ‘look at me’. “It’s really a way to say: ‘Look at what I’m doing, and let’s do this all together’,” says Berthet, who studies primates and linguistics at the University of Rennes, France.In another case, a peep that means ‘I would like to do this’ was followed by a whistle signalling ‘let’s stay together’. The bonobos combine the two calls in sensitive social contexts, says Berthet. “I think it’s to bring peace.”The study, reported in April, is one of several examples from the past few years that highlight just how sophisticated vocal communication in non-human animals can be. In some species of primate, whale2 and bird, researchers have identified features and patterns of vocalization that have long been considered defining characteristics of human language. These results challenge ideas about what makes human language special — and even how ‘language’ should be defined.Perhaps unsurprisingly, many scientists turn to artificial intelligence (AI) tools to speed up the detection and interpretation of animal sounds, and to probe aspects of communication that human listeners might miss. “It’s doing something that just wasn’t possible through traditional means,” says David Robinson, an AI researcher at the Earth Species Project, a non-profit organization based in Berkeley, California, that is developing AI systems to decode communication across the animal kingdom.As the research advances, there is increasing interest in using AI tools not only to listen in on animal speech, but also to potentially talk back.Combining callsResearchers studying animal communication ask some of the same types of question that linguists do. How are speech sounds physically produced (phonetics)? How are sounds combined to make meaningful units (morphology)? What rules determine how phrases and sentences are structured (syntax)?Until about a decade ago, researchers thought that only humans used a feature known in linguistics as compositionality. This is the combining of meaningful words, calls or other noises into expressions that have a meaning derived from those of their parts.A human gene makes mice squeak differently — did it contribute to language?But in 2016, a study of Japanese tits (Parus minor) changed how scientists thought about compositionality. The birds looked for predators when they heard an ‘alert’ call and approached a sound’s source after hearing a ‘recruitment’ call. When they heard the calls in that order, they performed both behaviours3. But they didn’t do so when the order was reversed, suggesting compositionality: the combination of calls had its own meaning.A study in 2023 extended that work. By presenting chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) with fake snakes in the wild, scientists showed that the primates similarly combine ‘alarm’ and ‘recruitment’ vocalizations into a message that prompts others to gather around the caller to respond to a threat4.However, humans remained the only species known to use compositionality in more than one way. For instance, by ordering words differently to change the meaning of the phrase, adding endings to words to modify meaning and creating metaphors and idioms to produce a figurative expression.Bonobos in the Democratic Republic of the Congo combine calls into phrases in several ways.Credit: Christian Ziegler/Nature Picture LibraryBut the study by Berthet and her colleagues softened that distinction between humans and other animals. They recorded 700 calls by 30 adult bonobos and found that the animals combined a finite number of calls in four ways1. One — a yelp–grunt combination — the authors considered to have ‘trivial’ compositionality, because the meaning of the individual calls had merely been combined. (For instance, ‘the red car’ describes an object that is both red and a car.) In the three other cases, one call modified the other, resulting in ‘non-trivial’ compositionality. (‘A terrible actor’ describes a person who is bad at acting, not someone who is terrible and an actor.)Evolutionary biologist Cédric Girard-Buttoz at the Lyon Neuroscience Research Center, France, and his colleagues reported in May that chimpanzees also combine a finite number of calls in several ways5. For some vocalizations, the meaning of the combined phrase can’t be determined from the meaning of the individual calls, as is the case for some idioms in human languages. For example, a hoot, used when resting on the ground, followed by a pant, which signifies playing and affiliation, prompted the chimpanzees to climb a tree, make a nest and rest together, even though neither call is typically associated with tree climbing, says Girard-Buttoz. Generating meaning in several ways is a building block of language, he adds.Whales, too, have some notable features of human language. Researchers at Project CETI, a non-profit organization in New York City, have been tracking and recording sperm whales (Physeter macrocephalus) off the coast of the Caribbean island of Dominica to compile a large data set of movements and sounds. By finding patterns that link whale sounds and behaviours, the scientists hope to translate ‘whale speak’.CETI linguist Gašper Beguš has been training generative-AI models to produce sounds and sequences of sounds that mimic those made by sperm whales. Whereas humans create distinct sounds by sending air through vocal folds in the throat, which vibrate at different frequencies, these whales send air through a lip-like structure in their nasal passage, which vibrates and creates clicks. The clicks are grouped into units called codas.Scientists attach sensors that can gather bioacoustic and other data to sperm whales using drones.Credit: Jaime RojoCETI scientists reported last year that sperm whales have their own ‘phonetic alphabet’, with codas varying in characteristics such as tempo and rhythm6. Beguš and his colleagues have since found that whale codas can differ in ways analogous to vowels and diphthongs in human language. Vowels in human speech differ on the basis of the tongue’s position and the shape of the lips, such as for the ‘ee’ in cheese versus the ‘o’ in hot. Diphthongs, or gliding vowels, are created by combining two vowels in a single syllable, such as in ‘pout’, resulting in a frequency change as the lips and tongue move.Beguš’s team identified two codas with distinct sound patterns that the researchers called an a-vowel and i-vowel. They also found that these vowels changed frequency in four ways: they can rise, they can fall, they can fall then rise or they can rise then fall7. The frequency changes could be indicative of diphthongs.What’s in a languageWhether the sophistication of animal communication is enough to qualify it as language depends on how a person defines the term and what they think about how animals think. There are two prevailing views, Beguš says. “One world view says that language and complex thought are intrinsically connected.” According to this view, complex thought came first and language is a way to externalize thoughts. If so, animals can’t have a language unless they are capable of complex thought.The other view holds that language is just one kind of communication, like gestures or facial expressions, and complex thought isn’t required. In this case, animals could have a language with or without complex thought. Experiments that train animals to communicate with humans, such as those with the bonobo Kanzi, who died earlier this year, have hinted that animals might be capable of having a language. But that’s a different question from whether they use language on their own in the wild.“The word is still out on whether we’ll find a full-on language,” says Robinson.For one, some aspects of human language haven’t been found in other species yet. Three of the 16 features — displacement, productivity and duality — on a language checklist created by linguist Charles Hockett haven’t been identified in non-human animals.What do dolphins talk about? One biologist is trying to listen inDisplacement is the ability to talk about abstract concepts, such as the past, the future or things that are distant. This feature hasn’t been seen convincingly in animal communication, although there is anecdotal evidence in some instances, such as dolphins calling the names of other dolphins that had disappeared years ago, and orangutans (Pongo spp.) telling others about a predator that was previously in an area, Berthet says.Productivity is the ability to say things that have never been said or heard before, and be understood by another individual.And duality describes meaningful messages made up of smaller meaningful units, which consist of even smaller, meaningless sounds. Although whales use clicks to create longer codas, scientists haven’t yet shown that clicks are meaningless and codas are meaningful.Recursion is another feature that might be unique to human language. This is when sentences or phrases are embedded in each other to create deeper levels of meaning. By training crows (Corvus corone) to peck at open and closed brackets in the appropriate sequence on a touch screen, Diana Liao, who studies vocal communication and cognition at the University of Tübingen in Germany, and her colleagues found evidence that the animals are mentally capable of recursion8. “They do this even better than macaque monkeys and on par with human toddlers”, Liao says. However, it’s not clear whether crows use it in their communication.It’s also unclear whether animals have grammatical rules that define how vocal communication is structured. And, although primates have been shown to mix and match calls to generate meaning, the number of meanings that they can produce is “really far from what humans can do”, says Girard-Buttoz.AI decodes the calls of the wild
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
Nature 645, 574-576 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02917-9
ReferencesBerthet, M., Surbeck, M. & Townsend, S. W. Science 388, 104–108 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Arnon, I. et al. Science 387, 649–653 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Suzuki, T. N., Wheatcroft, D. & Griesser, M. Nature Commun. 7, 10986 (2016).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Leroux, M. et al. Nature Commun. 14, 2225 (2023).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Girard-Buttoz, C. et al. Sci. Adv. 11, eadq2879 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Sharma, P. et al. Nature Commun. 15, 3617 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Beguš, G., Sprouse, R. L., Leban, A., Silva, M. & Gero, S. Preprint at OSF https://doi.org/10.31219/osf.io/285cs (2023).Liao, D. A., Brecht, K. F., Johnston, M. & Nieder, A. Sci. Adv. 8, eabq3356 (2022).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Rutz, C. et al. Science 381, 152–155 (2023).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Pardo, M. A. et al. Nature Ecol. Evol. 8, 1353–1364 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Oren, G. et al. Science 385, 996–1003 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Kobayashi, K. et al. Preprint at arXiv https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.00344 (2025).Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
A human gene makes mice squeak differently — did it contribute to language?
AI decodes the calls of the wild
How to detect consciousness in people, animals and maybe even AI
What do dolphins talk about? One biologist is trying to listen in
Will humans ever speak wolf? A scientist unravels the complexities of animal chatter
Subjects
Animal behaviour
Machine learning
Language
Evolution
Communication
Latest on:
Animal behaviour
Mysterious mass deaths of an extinct giant deer
News & Views 16 SEP 25
Songs of the striped mouse show who’s friend and who’s foe
Research Highlight 10 SEP 25
Ant queens produce sons of two distinct species
News & Views 03 SEP 25
Machine learning
Bring us your LLMs: why peer review is good for AI models
Editorial 17 SEP 25
People are more likely to cheat when they delegate tasks to AI
News & Views 17 SEP 25
AI can learn to show its workings through trial and error
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Language
AI models are neglecting African languages — scientists want to change that
News 29 JUL 25
Meet Aeneas: the AI that can fill in the gaps of damaged Latin texts
News 23 JUL 25
Scientific jargon can be ‘satisfying’ — but misleading
News & Views 21 JUL 25
Jobs
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry
City University of Hong Kong (CityUHK) is one of the world’s leading universities, known for innovation, creativity and research.  We are now seeki...
Hong Kong (HK)
City University of Hong Kong
Related Articles
A human gene makes mice squeak differently — did it contribute to language?
AI decodes the calls of the wild
How to detect consciousness in people, animals and maybe even AI
What do dolphins talk about? One biologist is trying to listen in
Will humans ever speak wolf? A scientist unravels the complexities of animal chatter
Subjects
Animal behaviour
Machine learning
Language
Evolution
Communication
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited