Movie news - IMDb
MenuMoviesRelease calendarTop 250 moviesMost popular moviesBrowse movies by genreTop box officeShowtimes & ticketsMovie newsIndia movie spotlightTV showsWhat's on TV & streamingTop 250 TV showsMost popular TV showsBrowse TV shows by genreTV newsWatchWhat to watchLatest trailersIMDb OriginalsIMDb PicksIMDb SpotlightFamily entertainment guideIMDb PodcastsAwards & eventsOscarsEmmysToronto Int'l Film FestivalHispanic Heritage MonthIMDb Stars to WatchSTARmeter AwardsAwards CentralFestival CentralAll eventsCelebsBorn todayMost popular celebsCelebrity newsCommunityHelp centerContributor zonePollsFor industry professionalsLanguageEnglish (United States)LanguageFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)AllAllWatchlistSign inENFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)Use app
Movie newsBert Kreischer to Star in College Comedy ‘Homecoming’ From ‘Tag’ Director Jeff Tomsic and Monarch Media (Exclusive)The king of college partying is returning to campus.Bert Kreischer will star in an original comedy movie titled “Homecoming,” directed by “Tag” filmmaker Jeff Tomsic and produced by Monarch Media.“Homecoming” follows divorced dad Bert, who attends his college homecoming in an attempt to reconnect with his eldest daughter, who attends his alma mater. When Bert arrives on campus, he realizes his kids have “parent trapped” him with his ex-wife. From there, “the weekend’s focus turns to competition, debaucherous mayhem — and, perhaps, a chance to reunite his family,” per the logline.The film is written by Randall Green (Pixar’s “Luca”) and produced by Steve Barnett, Alan Powell and Vicky Patel via Monarch; Kreischer and LeeAnn Kreischer through their banner Berty Boy Productions; and Judi Marmel.Before he became a world-touring stand-up comedian, a 24-year-old Kreischer was the subject of a 1997 Rolling Stone article that deemed him “the...See full article at Variety Film + TV9/18/2025by Ethan ShanfeldVariety Film + TV‘Grave Encounters’ Getting a Reboot with Justin Long Starring & Kate Bosworth ProducingThe found footage franchise Grave Encounters is getting a fresh new reboot, Variety reports this afternoon, with real-life couple Justin Long and Kate Bosworth on board.Justin Long will star in Grave Encounters, as well as produce alongside Kate Bosworth.The directors of the original Grave Encounters movie back in 2011, Colin Minihan and Stuart Ortiz, are also on board the project. According to Variety, they will “develop the film.”The untitled reboot will “modernize the concept into a cinematic experience, heightening the dread, claustrophobia, and psychological terror that made the original a fan favorite.”Long and Bosworth both star in Colin Minihan’s new movie Coyotes, releasing this Halloween season,...See full article at bloody-disgusting.com9/18/2025by John Squiresbloody-disgusting.comMatt Reeves Says ‘The Batman 2’ Villain Has ‘Never Really Been Done in a Film Before’Matt Reeves is sharing some new details about “The Batman Part II.”In a red carpet interview with Josh Horowitz, Reeves said the highly anticipated sequel will focus more on the character of Bruce Wayne since “the first is so focused on Batman.” Reeves pointed out that in previous films, the origin story is often the meat of Wayne’s background, but with “The Batman Part II,” fans will see the man behind the mask in new ways.“[In] a lot of the other films, which I love, once you get past the origin tale, which we didn’t quite do, but we did something that referred to his origins, then you start telling the Rogues Gallery story and that character’s sort of arch,” Reeves said. “But I never wanted to lose [Robert Pattinson] at the center of these stories, and so that is really what we set our aim on.See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Jack DunnVariety - Film News‘Camp Rock 3’ Now Filming With Jonas Brothers Starring and Demi Lovato ProducingThis is real. This is “Camp Rock 3.”A third movie in the beloved Disney Channel series “Camp Rock” has entered production in Vancouver, with the Jonas Brothers set to reprise their roles. They will also serve as executive producers alongside Demi Lovato, who starred with them in the original films. The film will air on Disney Channel and stream on Disney+.Per the official logline for “Camp Rock 3,” “Connect 3 loses their opening act for a major reunion tour, returning to their beloved Camp Rock to discover the next big thing. As campers vie for the chance to open for their favorite band,...See full article at Variety - TV News9/17/2025by Selome HailuVariety - TV News‘Summer I Turned Pretty’ Movie Set at Amazon Following Series Finale“The Summer I Turned Pretty” story is not over yet. Amazon Prime Video has officially greenlit a feature film that will conclude the story of the hit YA series.Exact plot details are under wraps, aside from the fact it will continue the story of the series, which just aired the finale for its third and final season. The movie will be written by Jenny Han, who wrote the books on which the show was based and developed them for television. The announcement was made at the series’ finale red carpet celebration in Paris, France.“There is another big milestone left in Belly’s journey, and I thought only a movie could give it its proper due. I’m so grateful to Prime Video for continuing to support my vision for this story and for making it possible to share this final chapter with the fans,” said Han.For a...See full article at Variety Film + TV9/17/2025by Joe OttersonVariety Film + TVOzzy Osbourne Doc ‘No Escape From Now’ Sets October Release Date on Paramount+, Reveals Emotional TrailerOzzy Osbourne documentary “No Escape From Now” has revealed its release date alongside an emotional trailer, featuring one of the late rock icon’s final on-camera interviews.The two-hour film, which chronicles Osbourne’s health struggles and journey to return to the stage over the past six years, will premiere on Paramount+ Oct. 7. It will be available to stream exclusively on the platform internationally, excluding Japan.Directed by BAFTA winner Tania Alexander, the doc was produced in collaboration with the Osbourne family and includes intimate interviews with Ozzy himself, his wife Sharon Osbourne and children Aimee, Kelly and Jack Osbourne. The family discusses at length the fall Ozzy suffered in February 2019 that led to him canceling his two-year farewell tour.“Detailing his numerous corrective surgeries, escalating health issues and the progressive effects of his Parkinson’s diagnosis, ‘Ozzy: No Escape From Now’ delivers a brave, unvarnished and relatable portrait of a man,...See full article at Variety Film + TV9/17/2025by Ellise ShaferVariety Film + TVJulia Roberts Confirms ‘My Best Friend’s Wedding’ Sequel Talks; Luca Guadagnino Would Direct the Project ‘in a Second’Julia Roberts confirmed that she’s been in discussions about possibly starring in a sequel to “My Best Friend’s Wedding.”“They’re talking to me,” Roberts said in Variety‘s cover story on “After the Hunt,” the Luca Guadagnino-directed psychological thriller starring Roberts, Andrew Garfield, Ayo Edebiri and Chloë Sevigny. During the interview, Guadagnino chimed in that he would direct Roberts in a “My Best Friend’s Wedding” sequel “in a second.”News broke in July that a “My Best Friend’s Wedding” sequel was in early development, with “Past Lives” and “Materialists” filmmaker Celine Song attached to pen a screenplay for the project — though she was not in talks to direct. The development news came shortly after Dermot Mulroney, who starred in the 1997 original alongside Roberts, teased to the New York Post that “there is talk of a sequel.”“My Best Friend’s Wedding” starred Julia Roberts as food critic Julianne Potter,...See full article at Variety Film + TV9/18/2025by Michaela ZeeVariety Film + TV‘Conjuring’ Writers Chad and Carey Hayes to Make Directorial Debut With ‘Train,’ Frances O’Connor to Star (Exclusive)Chad and Carey Hayes, the writing team behind “The Conjuring,” are making their first foray into directing with the thriller “Train,” which will star Frances O’Connor.The project reunites the Hayes brothers with O’Connor, who appeared in “The Conjuring 2” as Peggy Hodgson. The Hayes duo created the first “Conjuring” film that launched what has become the top-earning horror franchise in cinema history.Blake Northfield and Michelle Krumm are producing through their banner Bronte Studios. The Australian company recently debuted “Beast of War” at the Melbourne International Film Festival, with the film subsequently screening at Fantastic Fest in Austin.“We’re thrilled to be making our directorial debut with ‘Train,’ in partnership with the incredible team at Bronte Studios,” the Hayes Brothers said in a statement. “After years of writing, developing, and living inside the industry, we’re excited to finally put all that experience behind the camera. This...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Naman RamachandranVariety - Film NewsJoseph Kosinski’s ‘Miami Vice’ Movie Lands August 2027 Release Date, Casting UnderwayDirector Joseph Kosinski’s Miami Vice movie is a go.The Universal Pictures event pic will hit theaters on Aug. 6, 2027, the studio announced Wednesday. Casting is currently underway, with shooting set to begin next year.Kosinski, who is coming off directing back-to back blockbusters — F1: The Movie and Top Gun: Maverick — will explore the glamour and corruption of mid-’80s Miami in a new version of Miami Vice, inspired by the pilot episode and first season of the landmark television series that influenced culture and set the style of everything from fashion to filmmaking.Kosinski will film the movie for Imax, much as he did with F1 and Top Gun, in order to enhance the sights and sounds of the iconic series.Miami Vice began life as the Anthony Yerkovich-created TV series starring Don Johnson and Philip Michael Thomas as two undercover Miami police officers known for their love of pastel suits.See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News9/17/2025by Pamela McClintockThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie NewsUniversal Pushes Colleen Hoover Movie ‘Reminders of Him’ Back a Month to March 2026Fans of Colleen Hoover’s best-selling novel Reminders of Him will have to wait a bit longer to see Universal Pictures’ big screen adaptation of the wildly popular romantic drama.The film is shifting its theatrical release date from Feb. 5, 2026 to March 13, 2026. The new date means it can take advantage of rolling school holidays.Reminders of Him takes the place of an untitled Blumhouse film.Maika Monroe, who hit mainstream success with last year’s horror hit Longlegs, stars in the film, with Vanessa Caswill (Love at First Sight) directing.The movie is described as a “transformative feature film about motherhood, forgiveness and the power of one love to heal even the most shattered heart.”Reminders of Him is the first Hoover adaptation to hit theaters since It Ends With Us turned into a box office blockbuster before becoming the subject of an ongoing legal battle between Blake Lively and Justin Baldoni.See full article at The Hollywood Reporter - Movie News9/18/2025by Pamela McClintockThe Hollywood Reporter - Movie News‘The Secret Agent’ Lead Wagner Moura to Produce and Star in Sandra Delgado’s Fiction Debut ‘The Outsider’ for Maria Farinha Filmes (Exclusive)Renowned Brazilian production company Maria Farinha Filmes announced the development of Sandra Delgado’s fiction feature debut “The Outsider,” executive produced by Cannes best actor winner Wagner Moura. The “Secret Agent” star will also feature in a minor role in the film about the life of Claudia Andujar, the Swiss-born and naturalized Brazilian artist and activist.“The Outsider” will trace Andujar’s life from surviving the Holocaust to her remarkable work as a photographer whose practice is used as a tool for activism with a focus on human rights and sustainability. Andujar’s work has largely focused on historically marginalized populations in Brazil and has contributed to the demarcation of Indigenous lands and vaccination campaigns in the country’s Amazon region. Her work is part of the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Tate in the UK, as well as having a dedicated...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Rafa Sales RossVariety - Film NewsBuena Vista Takes Latin American and U.S. Rights to Lucía Puenzo’s Criminal Epic ‘Pepita’ (Exclusive)Underscoring a renewed appetite for Latin American cinema, Buena Vista has secured Latin American and U.S. rights to “Pepita,” the latest feature from renowned Argentine writer-director Lucía Puenzo.The news was announced to Variety by Puenzo at the South International Series Festival in Cádiz, whose third edition closed Wednesday Sept. 17 with the screening of Puenzo’s “Futuro Desierto,” a Mexican dystopian drama series teaming Gaumont USA, Paramount TV Intl. Studios and Tis Studios.A real life-inspired storyIn post, “Pepita” toplines Argentine star Luisana Lopilato, who also serves as executive producer.Inspired by the notorious real-life figure of Margarita Di Tullio, known as “Pepita La Pistolera,” the film charts her rise from glamorous madame in Mar del Plata’s underworld to infamous legend after a triple homicide in 1985 that cemented her place in Argentina’s criminal mythology.“Pepita” is produced for Buena Vista by Lucas Jinkis’ Zeppelin Studio Latin America,...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Emiliano De PablosVariety - Film NewsIs ‘What Happens at Night’ Finally What Martin Scorsese Is Actually Working on Next?There have probably been five or six “next projects” that Martin Scorsese has been reported to be directing after he did “Killers of the Flower Moon” in 2023, but this one may finally have some real legs to it.Scorsese has committed to directing “What Happens at Night,” which is a creepy ghost story adaptation of a 2020 book by Peter Cameron, an individual with knowledge of the project told IndieWire. Leonardo DiCaprio, naturally, would be starring in the film alongside Jennifer Lawrence. Apple Original Films is also circling the project, with an eye to finance and produce it alongside Studiocanal, which developed the script.What makes “What Happens at Night” seem like this really is the next one is that there’s a pretty-soon start date of January being eyed (though wouldn’t Leo be in the midst of an Oscar campaign for “One Battle After Another?”). Apple though also has...See full article at Indiewire9/19/2025by Brian WelkIndiewireMartin Scorsese, Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lawrence teaming on ghost story for Apple, StudiocanalMartin Scorsese is reported to be reuniting with Leonardo DiCaprio alongside Jennifer Lawrence on the ghost story What Happens At Night, with Apple in talks to produce and finance with Studiocanal.The parties are eying a January production start on the story based on a screenplay Patrick Marber wrote and developed for Studiocanal, adapted from the novel by Peter Cameron.What Happens At Night centres on a couple who visit a snowbound European town in the hopes of adopting a baby and check into a strange hotel where they meet bizarre characters and realise how little they know about themselves.See full article at ScreenDaily9/18/2025ScreenDailyTim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim Writing Horror Script: ‘Sicker Than Most People Are Going to Want to Watch’Tim Heidecker and Eric Wareheim, the alternative comedy duo behind Adult Swim’s “Tim and Eric Awesome Show, Great Job!” are experimenting in a new genre. Heidecker revealed at the premiere of “Him” on Wednesday that he and Wareheim are currently writing a horror script — and that their foray into the field may prove just as shocking as their comedy.When asked if there were any future “Tim and Eric” projects in the pipeline, Heidecker replied, “We’re actually writing a horror movie that is going to be much sicker than most people are going to want to watch.”Considering that Tim and Eric are known for off-key, irreverent and, indeed, sometimes sick senses of humor, it makes sense that their efforts in a different genre will also press boundaries. Heidecker was sparse on details regarding the project, providing no further comment on the plot, tone, or development stage, but candidly noting,...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Andrew McGowanVariety - Film NewsMartin Scorsese to Direct Leonardo DiCaprio and Jennifer Lawrence in ‘What Happens at Night’ With
Apple CirclingOscar winner Martin Scorsese has set his next directorial job: an adaptation of the ghost story novel “What Happens at Night” starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Jennifer Lawrence.Apple Original Films is in talks to finance and produce the movie with Studiocanal. Studiocanal acquired the rights to Peter Cameron’s acclaimed novel in 2023, with Scorsese on board to produce and Patrick Marber (Oscar nominee for “Notes on a Scandal”) adapting the screenplay. Adding Oscar winners DiCaprio and Lawrence only raises the project’s blue-chip pedigree.Cameron’s story follows an American couple who travel to a strange, snowy European city to adopt a baby.“It’s a difficult journey that leaves the wife, who is struggling with cancer, desperately weak, and her husband worries that her illness will prevent the orphanage from releasing their child,” a synopsis for the book explains. “On arrival, the couple checks into the cavernous and eerily deserted Borgarfjaroasysla Grand Imperial Hotel,...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Angelique JacksonVariety - Film NewsWill Zach Cregger's Resident Evil Movie Be Set In The Game Universe? Here's How They're ConnectedAs of this writing, there have been seven live-action feature films based on Capcom's popular series of zombie-based video games. The "Resident Evil" films released from 2002 to 2016 were all part of the same (bugnuts crazy) continuity, following the state of the world after the release of a deadly mutagenic virus that can turn people into zombies, Hulk-like mutants, or vampires (?). The film series was rebooted in 2021 with the release of Johannes Roberts' "Resident Evil: Welcome to Raccoon City," a film that attempted to re-insert horror elements into a film series that had gone off the rails. All the while, Capcom kept releasing "Resident Evil" video games. From 2002 to 2021, 20 games...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Witney SeiboldSlash FilmOne Battle After Another Looks To End Warner Bros.' Hot Streak At The Box OfficeLeonardo DiCaprio is one of the biggest stars in the world. Even though he's never been part of a big franchise, he's one of the top-grossing actors ever at the box office, thanks to starring in massive hits such as Christopher Nolan's "Inception" ($839 million worldwide) and his Oscar-winning role in "The Revenant" ($533 million worldwide). So, can DiCaprio help keep the hot streak alive for Warner Bros. this year when "One Battle After Another" hits theaters? Even for him, that's going to be a tall order.Directed by Paul Thomas Anderson ("Boogie Nights"), "One Battle After Another" is currently expected to pull in between $20 and $30 million in its opening domestically when it debuts next weekend,...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Ryan ScottSlash FilmEverything Coming to Hulu and Disney+ in OctoberFall TV is in full swing already and is only picking up momentum by October. “Huluween” is still very much celebrated among TV fans, and Disney+ will get in on the action with new “Wizards of Waverly Place” and “Vampirina: Teenage Vampire.” Plenty of new Hulu originals will make their way to the streamer, including the star-studded “Murdaugh: Death in the Family,” the Korean drama “Tempest,” and the final season of “Solar Opposites.”And if you’ve paused or not yet started either subscription, new network TV is the perfect excuse to do so (“Abbott Elementary” returns October 2!) — as well as plenty of other films and movies coming to both Hulu and Disney+ in October.Top Pick: “Murdaugh: Death in the Family” (Hulu)Maggie (Patricia Arquette) and Alex Murdaugh (Jason Clarke) are the couple at the head of an esteemed South Carolina family whose life is turned upside down when...See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Proma KhoslaIndiewireTwo Of A24's Best 2025 Movies Have Taken Over HBO Max's Top Streaming ChartsWhat do A24's 2025 movies "Friendship" and "Warfare" have in common, besides the fact that they both bear titles that are weirdly hard to Google? They're both crushing it right now on HBO Max.According to reports on FlixPatrol, "Warfare" is currently occupying the top spot for movies on HBO Max's charts, with "Friendship" coming in at number two. Besides the fact that they both come from A24, these two movies frankly couldn't be more different. Still, this is great news for the independent production company, which has been releasing hit after hit after hit for years now.In case you're unfamiliar with A24 — or you like their movies...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Nina StarnerSlash FilmSylvester Stallone Pitched AI De-Aging ‘Rambo’ Prequel: The Tech Is ‘Sophisticated Enough’ to Make Me ’18 Years Old’Sylvester Stallone has a new memoir coming next year. In the meantime, he’s making the rounds ahead of the Season 3 premiere of “Tulsa King” and weighing in on some of his classic films.A “John Rambo” origin story movie is already in the works with Noah Centineo. But although Stallone wasn’t involved in the plans for that one, he told The Playlist’s Bingeworthy podcast that he previously had his own idea for a “Rambo” prequel.He had pitched it as an AI experiment that would de-age him back to a teenager, he told the podcast. “Everyone thought I was crazy,” he remembered. “AI is sophisticated enough to go through Saigon to see him at 18 years old and basically use the same image. So it isn’t as big a stretch.”Playing John Rambo won’t be easy for any other actor, Stallone predicted, because he has become so identified with the role.See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Pat SapersteinVariety - Film NewsKimmel Isn’t Roseanne or Gina Carano — This Time, Disney Hurt Its Own WalletABC’s decision to suspend “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” indefinitely is a statement about the limits of speech in a media landscape that already feels precarious. By pulling him off the air over an unverified claim about Charlie Kirk’s killer, the network turned a late-night quip into a referendum on who gets to define acceptable commentary. For Hollywood, and anyone who sees free expression as more than a brand slogan, the message lands with force.ABC’s voluntary move to program a rerun of “Celebrity Family Feud” at 11:35pm came after verbal threats from FCC Chairman Brendan Carr and ongoing threats from President Donald Trump that the network should pull “Jimmy Kimmel Live!” The next morning, the chilling effect was so profound that Kimmel wasn’t even mentioned on ABC’s “The View.”Comedians have long complained that “political correctness” from the left limited what they could say, but...See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Christian BlauveltIndiewire‘Swiped’ Review: A Thin, Glossy Account of the Brief Fall and Unstoppable Rise of an Og GirlbossIt doesn’t say much for our modern world that, when presented with the cheerful, empowering origin story of a billionairess, one’s first reaction may not be to come away cheered or empowered, but to feel certain its broad trajectory, arcing upward like a big smile, is glossing over darker truths. But it doesn’t say much for “Swiped” either, that this overly sunny biopic of dating-app entrepreneur Whitney Wolfe, directed by Rachel Lee Goldenberg (“Unpregnant”), should provide so little substance beneath its shiny surface. Wolfe’s particular genius seems to have been for marketing. Maybe it’s appropriate that a movie about her plays like a marketing exercise: simplified, sanitized, suspect.We meet Wolfe (Lily James) as she is gatecrashing some beachside tech event, anxious to pitch an app that connects volunteers with orphanages across the globe. That goes down exactly as you might expect with a bunch...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Jessica KiangVariety - Film NewsFans Are Saying The Same Thing About Sabrina Carpenter's Muppets Show Special On Disney+Back in 2004, Disney purchased the rights to a majority of the Muppet film and television library. However, in the years since, they've had more stumbles than successes with Jim Henson's beloved, fuzzy characters. While "The Muppets" movie in 2011 with Jason Segel was a blockbuster hit, the sequel that followed wasn't quite up to snuff, and there have been various false starts on television here and there, ranging from a canceled ABC workplace sitcom akin to "The Office" to a streaming debut on Disney+.However, it sounds like Disney is gearing up to bring the Muppets back into the spotlight in a big way. The Hollywood Reporter has news that...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Ethan AndertonSlash Film‘In Whose Name?’ Review: An Intimate Yet Frustrating Look Inside the Wild World of Kanye WestAt the end of “In Whose Name?,” the Nico Ballesteros-directed documentary spanning six years of Kanye West’s life, the rapper breaks from the narrative to confront the challenges of assembling the film. “We don’t know if we glued together the story,” West says in a voiceover. “If you’re documenting every almost waking moment and sometimes sleeping moments of my life and you don’t understand the throughline, then the world’s not going to understand the throughline. It’s just going to look crazy or it’s going to be one antic to the next antic, the way the media words it.”There isn’t much of a throughline, though, for “In Whose Name?,” other than its linearity. The film attempts to thread more than 3,000 hours of footage collected between 2018 and 2024 into an unflinching portrayal of West, a perennial lightning rod for controversy usually sparked by his own hand.See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Steven J. HorowitzVariety - Film News‘Depeche Mode: M’ Trailer: Synth-Pop Legends Embrace Mortality in Mexico City Concert DocDepeche Mode has made a career out of using synth-pop anthems to illustrate the darkest aspects of the human experience, but the band’s new concert film sees them confronting death like never before.“Depeche Mode: M” follows the band of Essex natives on their 2023-2024 world tour in support of their album “Memento Mori,” which was notable for being their first release following the 2022 death of founding member Andy Fletcher. As the title suggests, the album places ideas about death and mortality front and center — but in true Depeche Mode fashion, the songs still manage to find joy and inspiration within the darkness.The tour spanned 112 shows around the world, but the new film focuses on three nights that the band played at Foro Sol Stadium in Mexico City. Mexican director Fernando Frías captures the sold-out performances in a film that promises to infuse the band’s legacy with...See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Christian ZilkoIndiewire‘Materialists’ Is First Indie Movie of 2025 to Surpass $100 Million at Global Box OfficeWho says Happily Ever After only happens in the movies? Director Celine Song’s romantic comedy “Materialists” has surpassed a major box office milestone, crossing $100 million in global ticket sales. It’s the first independent movie in 2025 to reach that box office benchmark.So far, the film has grossed $36.5 million domestically and a sizable $64.8 million overseas for a worldwide tally of $101.3 million. A24 backed the $20 million-budgeted “Materialists,” which was produced by Killer Films and released internationally by Sony. The film, led by three movie stars in Dakota Johnson, Pedro Pascal and Chris Evans, follows a New York City matchmaker who finds herself in a love triangle with a wealthy suitor and her ex boyfriend.“Materialists” opened in mid-June to $12 million, the third-biggest domestic debut for A24 following “Civil War” ($25.5 million) and “Hereditary” ($13.5 million). Part of the success was because A24 positioned the movie as a star-driven romantic comedy of yesteryear rather than typical indie fare.See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Rebecca RubinVariety - Film NewsRob Reiner on Scorsese, ‘The Bear,’ and Why He Loves Being on Other Directors’ SetsIn “Spinal Tap II: The End Continues,” director Rob Reiner returns to the world of his debut feature “This Is Spinal Tap” to see what the title characters — the world’s self-described loudest rock band — are up to 41 years later. Once again, Reiner adopts a “mockumentary” format, which was achieved by creating an environment on set in which the actors actually felt as though they were in a documentary, with no marks, no pre-written dialogue, and no preconceived blocking or camera moves.While the “Spinal Tap” movies represent an extreme form of this methodology and stand in stark contrast to the more precise visual design of Reiner classics like “Misery” and “The American President,” the director told IndieWire’s Filmmaker Toolkit podcast that he likes to create a sense of looseness even on his most elaborate and stylized productions. “You try to set up an atmosphere where [the actors] feel completely safe and comfortable,...See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Jim HemphillIndiewireListen: Inside Variety’s Cover Story as Julia Roberts Gets Provocative in ‘After the Hunt’; Revisiting Lilith Fair in Hulu DocumentaryIn Hollywood, there are great actors and luminous movie stars — and then there’s Julia Roberts.La Roberts once again is showing the film world how it’s done with her buzzy appearance last month at the Venice Film Festival to launch her latest film, Luca Guadagnino’s “After the Hunt.” On the latest episode of “Daily Variety” podcast, Ramin Setoodeh, Variety co-Editor in Chief, details for our cover story his sit down interview with Roberts, Guadagnino and other key cast members from the Amazon MGM Studios film, which bows in theaters Oct. 17.Variety’s Sept. 18 print magazine cover Xavi Gordo for VarietyAlthough the film’s subject matter is difficult — revolving around the fallout from an accusation of sexual assault on a college campus — Setoodeh said it was apparent from the camaraderie among the cast members that “After the Hunt” troupe had a great time working together. Roberts and...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Cynthia LittletonVariety - Film NewsAn Underrated Jason Statham Action Movie Is Blowing Up On Paramount+Having defeated a giant prehistoric shark twice now, I think it's fair to say there's nothing that can stop Jason Statham. There's certainly nothing that can stop him making movies, anyway, as the action maestro is still pumping out high-adrenaline actioners with impressive regularity. As such, several of his better films often get lost in the ever-expanding Statham catalog. But 2011's "The Mechanic" is fighting its way back into the public consciousness, charting in the Paramount+ Top 10 and reminding us all that not every Statham movie has to be as generic as his recent "John Wick" knockoff "A Working Man."One of the best Jason Statham movies, "The Mechanic" is...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Joe RobertsSlash Film‘Hamnet’ to close Tokyo film festival as gala, animation line-ups revealedChloe Zhao’s Hamnet has been set as the closing film of the 38th Tokyo International Film Festival, which has also revealed its gala and animation selections.The period drama is fresh from winning the People’s Choice Award at Toronto, which Zhao previously won in 2020 with Nomadland.The Beijing-born filmmaker was already set to attend Tokyo to accept the festival’s prestigious Kurosawa Akira Award. Her latest feature is based on Maggie O’Farrell’s 2020 novel and stars Jessie Buckley as the wife of William Shakespeare, played by Paul Mescal, as they grieve the loss of their child.The festival,...See full article at ScreenDaily9/18/2025ScreenDailyWhat Lilly Singh Does Is Not ‘Niche’Lilly Singh is talking about sex a lot lately.A promo reel for her comedy “Doin’ It” features the writer, comedian, and internet juggernaut saying sexual things directly into camera — but there’s one word she can’t stand that has nothing to do with the film’s raunchy subject matter: niche.“I feel like I want to tell stories that every exec is gonna be like, ‘No, that’s too niche,'” Singh told IndieWire during a recent interview. “The word niche triggers me, because we’re not niche. We’re not at all niche, and that’s just a word that’s used against us.”Sara Zandieh’s “Doin’ It” is explicitly a sex comedy from the South Asian perspective, starring Singh as thirty-something virgin Maya — who not only has never had sex, but even a sex talk — and is suddenly tasked with teaching sex education to teens.See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Proma KhoslaIndiewireLionsgate to implement further redundanciesLionsgate will implement further redundancies and reduce its company-wide headcount by 5% or approximately 50 people.The move is expected to happen soon and marks further cost-cutting after staff lay-offs amounting to roughly 8% earlier this year.Across Hollywood, companies have been cutting costs to meet the challengesof industry shifts. Speaking in July after the Skydance-Paramountmerger closed, CEODavid Ellisonsaid the transaction would involve $2bn in cost cuts.In a memo to staff obtained by Screen, Lionsgate CEO Jon Feltheimer wrote: ”Though we may continue to fine-tune the organisational structure of individual departments from time to time, today’s headcount reduction will substantially completeour...See full article at ScreenDaily9/18/2025ScreenDailyAnna Wintour Keeps Her Sunglasses On as She Talks Meeting Trump Twice, ‘Devil Wears Prada 2’ and Vogue World HollywoodEarlier this summer, Anna Wintour stepped down from her role as editor-in-chief of Vogue. But she’s still calling the shots at Conde Nast as chief content officer, overseeing all the storied publisher’s magazines (except for the New Yorker). As we speak, Wintour has been toiling behind the scenes to put on her annual fall event known as Vogue World, set in Los Angeles for its fourth edition.And Wintour, who turns 76 next month, has been trying to keep the magazine business afloat. Intrigue over the inner-workings of Condé Nast have been high in recent months. Her successor as U.S. editor of Vogue, Chloe Malle, made waves when she said that the fashion magazine might be printing less than monthly. And her appointment of Mark Guiducci, a former Vogue employee, as the new head of Vanity Fair created controversy (numerous reports suggested that the 36-year-old got the job...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Matt DonnellyVariety - Film NewsFifth Season Enters First-Look Deal With Jonathan Levine’s Megamix (Exclusive)Fifth Season has inked a first-look film and television deal with “Long Shot” director Jonathan Levine and Gillian Bohrer’s Megamix.The deal marks a continuation of the studio’s partnership with Levine, who executive produced and directed both seasons of the Nicole Kidman Hulu vehicle “Nine Perfect Strangers.”“Jonathan is a multitalented creator and producer with proven success across film and television. Partnering with Jonathan and Gillian builds on our recent fruitful collaboration and reflects our commitment to expand our slate of diversified premium content and to be the preeminent creative home for the industry’s most exciting storytellers,” said Noah Greenshner, Fifth Season’s executive vice president of TV development and production.Added president of film Christopher Slager: “And I’m just a fan.”Director-writer-producer Levine is best known for helming the comedy movies “Long Shot,” “50/50” and “The Night Before,” each starring Seth Rogen. The filmmaker made...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Ethan ShanfeldVariety - Film NewsThere’s Never Been a Better Time to Own the Full ‘Bluey’ Blu-ray CollectionIt’s no secret that the IndieWire team loves physical media. We are continually wheedling permission from our editors to talk about the companies still painstakingly creating great bonus features, about the labels restoring beloved animated series, about exciting new releases from the Criterion Collection to well beyond.As so many of our film and TV viewing habits have transitioned to streaming, we can all forget sometimes that there are still a lot of physical media releases, new and old, out there; not nearly everything and not nearly enough, but beloved properties one might assume only lives on a platform can still be found out in the real world. This is important not just for nerds like us, but for anyone who, for whatever reason, may not want to be sending $12-$15 to a streamer this month.Like Disney+, just for instance. Let’s say you’re ready to cancel your Disney+ subscription.See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Sarah ShachatIndiewireGen V Stars Share Season 2's Nastiest Location (And It's Not What You'd Think) [Exclusive]"Gen V" is a lovely show, but it's also a gross one. It's a series that takes its characters into gore-filled medical labs and blood-soaked dorm rooms. In a recent interview with /Film's own Bj Colangelo, two of the "Gen V" cast members shed some light on what was perhaps the most "disgusting" location they filmed at in all of season 2: that fraternity house the characters party it up at in the premiere."It was disgusting. ... It smelled weird," said Lizze Broadway, who plays the size-shifting supe Emma Meyer. She later added, "It was a real frat house. I think someone was sleeping upstairs at one point." Asa Germann,...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Michael BoyleSlash FilmOne Big Thing Sets Primitive War's Dinosaurs Apart From The Ones In Jurassic Park"Jurassic Park" is pretty much the undisputed greatest dinosaur movie of all time. It spawned a massive franchise that currently consists of seven movies and, in all likelihood, will soon gain an eighth after the success of this summer's "Jurassic World Rebirth." But one thing that the "Jurassic" movies largely haven't had, despite almost having a monopoly on the genre, is scientifically accurate dinosaurs. That's what helps director Luke Sparke's "Primitive War" stand out.Based on Ethan Pettus' novel of the same name, "Primitive War" arrived in select theaters over the summer and soon won over audiences. Despite having a fairly limited budget, Sparke managed to cram this movie full of dinosaurs,...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Ryan ScottSlash FilmStephen King: ‘The Texas Chain Saw Massacre’ Haunted Me Because ‘It Just Looks F—ing Real’ (Exclusive)The 1974 film “The Texas Chain Saw Massacre” was a turning point in horror, so scary and influential that it holds the #1 spot on Variety‘s 100 Best Horror Movies of All Time. “Chain Reactions,” a new documentary opening in New York City on Sept. 19 via Dark Sky, is a documentary from Alexandre O. Philippe about the film’s impact on five creatives: Author Stephen King, comedian Patton Oswalt, director Takashi Miike, horror critic Alexandra Heller-Nicholas and filmmaker Karyn Kusama.King, no stranger to horror, says that although he was late to the film, it shook him because of the gritty look and feel.“I should say that I never saw ‘Texas Chain Saw Massacre’ when it came out,” King says. “I saw it in 1982 in Colorado. I was a young father and I was writing to stay ahead of the bill collectors. I was in the theater almost by myself. That...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by William EarlVariety - Film News‘Black Rabbit’ Review: Jason Bateman and Jude Law Shoulder an Unbearably Bleak Netflix ThrillerEditor’s note: This review was originally published on Sunday, September 7, when the series premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival. All eight episodes will be released Thursday, September 18 on Netflix.“Black Rabbit” opens in media res, while Jake (Jude Law) is giving a celebratory speech at his trendy Manhattan restaurant. Toasting the culmination of his team’s hard work, the co-owner of the swanky three-story pub tells the polite crowd of casual diners and social climbers that they “never wanted [this] to be just a restaurant. We wanted to build a home for our family, our friends, our people. A place you could come for a drink, a smoke, for the best burger in New York — a place where the night could go anywhere.”And then two masked men burst through the back doors, demand everyone hands over their valuables, and stick a gun in Jake’s face.While surely...See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Ben TraversIndiewireMrBeast, Salish Matter Join ‘Angry Birds Movie 3’ CastThe “Angry Birds” franchise is joining the creator economy.Jimmy Donaldson, better known as MrBeast, and Salish Matter, an influencer and the co-founder of “Sincerely Yours,” have joined the voice cast of “The Angry Birds Movie 3.” In addition, Paramount announced that the animated sequel, which was previously dated for Jan. 29, 2027, has been moved up to Dec. 23, 2026. The goal is to capitalize on the holidays when kids will be out of school and eager to see some ornery avians.Donaldson may be new to studio animation, but he is one of the most popular entertainers currently working having created the most subscribed YouTube channel in the world. His MrBeast platform has 436 million subscribers, nearly 1 billion followers across social media and over 2 billion monthly views. He is the founder of Beast Industries and also launched Amazon Prime Video’s most watched unscripted series ever, “Beast Games.”The 15-year-old Matter is also...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Brent LangVariety - Film NewsWhy Kathryn Bigelow’s ‘A House of Dynamite’ Could Ignite an Explosive Oscars ComebackKathryn Bigelow is back, baby — and she didn’t come quietly.The Oscar-winning filmmaker, who rewrote history as the first woman to claim best director with “The Hurt Locker” (2009), has assembled what can only be described as a masterclass in tension. A ticking-clock thriller that exposes just how precariously our global order balances on nothing more than fragile trust between nations. When that trust shatters, it might explode right in our own backyard.This is the reassertion of Bigelow’s cinematic authority.“A House of Dynamite” weaves together an intricate tapestry of perspectives across three chapters, all compressed into a heart-stopping 18-minute window where U.S. government officials scramble to respond to an incoming nuclear missile from a foreign power. The ensemble cast reads like a who’s who of powerhouse talent: Idris Elba, Rebecca Ferguson, Gabriel Basso, Jared Harris, Tracy Letts, Anthony Ramos, Moses Ingram, Jonah Hauer-King, Greta Lee, Jason Clarke,...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Clayton DavisVariety - Film NewsThe Real Reason Dave Bautista Turned Down Peacemaker Before John CenaWe may receive a commission on purchases made from links.John Cena is one of the most accomplished wrestlers-turned-actors to ever do it. A big turning point for Cena came when he was cast as Peacemaker in director James Gunn's 2021 film "The Suicide Squad." That, in turn, led to a spin-off series, aptly titled "Peacemaker," which has since returned for a second season. But before the role was offered to Cena, another wrestler-turned-actor — in the form of Dave Bautista — was meant to play the part. So, why didn't he?In an interview with ComicBook.com, the man known best for playing Drax in Gunn's "Guardians of the Galaxy" films...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Ryan ScottSlash FilmOne Format After Another: How, Where, and Why to Watch Paul Thomas Anderson’s Latest Film in Every WayWhen the rise of television threatened movie attendance in the 1950s, Hollywood responded by introducing several new exhibition formats designed to bring people back to theaters with the promise of widescreen images and stereophonic sound. CinemaScope, Cinerama, and VistaVision were just a few of these processes, which dazzled audiences and yielded films like “The Robe,” “The Bridge on the River Kwai,” and “Around the World in 80 Days,” attracting customers in droves.Now, as exhibitors struggle with the rise of streaming and declining theater attendance, one of America’s greatest living filmmakers has revived one of the greatest of all widescreen formats, giving today’s audiences the same reason to get off their couches that Alfred Hitchcock, Michael Curtiz, and other premier directors of their era gave in the 1950s. The glorious return of VistaVision began last year when Brady Corbet shot “The Brutalist” in the format and exhibited the...See full article at Indiewire9/18/2025by Jim HemphillIndiewireBert Kreischer to Star in College Comedy ‘Homecoming’ From ‘Tag’ Director Jeff Tomsic and Monarch Media (Exclusive)The king of college partying is returning to campus.Bert Kreischer will star in an original comedy movie titled “Homecoming,” directed by “Tag” filmmaker Jeff Tomsic and produced by Monarch Media.“Homecoming” follows divorced dad Bert, who attends his college homecoming in an attempt to reconnect with his eldest daughter, who attends his alma mater. When Bert arrives on campus, he realizes his kids have “parent trapped” him with his ex-wife. From there, “the weekend’s focus turns to competition, debaucherous mayhem — and, perhaps, a chance to reunite his family,” per the logline.The film is written by Randall Green (Pixar’s “Luca”) and produced by Steve Barnett, Alan Powell and Vicky Patel via Monarch; Kreischer and LeeAnn Kreischer through their banner Berty Boy Productions; and Judi Marmel.Before he became a world-touring stand-up comedian, a 24-year-old Kreischer was the subject of a 1997 Rolling Stone article that deemed him “the...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Ethan ShanfeldVariety - Film NewsProduction Designer Hannah Beachler to Be Honored With Variety’s Creative Impact Award at Scad Savannah Film FestivalOscar-winning production designer Hannah Beachler will be honored with Variety’s Creative Impact in Production Design Award at the Scad Savannah Film Festival.Beachler made history when she became the first African American to take home a trophy in the production design category for her work on “Black Panther.” She has been Ryan Coogler’s go-to, with the two working on “Fruitvale Station,” “Creed,” “Black Panther: Wakanda Forever” and “Sinners” together.“Scad is delighted to partner again with Variety to present the Creative Impact Award to the extraordinary production designer, Hannah Beachler,” said Christina Routhier, senior executive director of the Scad Savannah Film Festival. “Her work on ‘Sinners’—from the haunting juke joint to the textures of the Mississippi Delta—roots the film in authenticity while elevating the story into something otherworldly. The choices she made demonstrate the power of production design to shape narrative and deepen the cinematic experience.See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Jazz TangcayVariety - Film NewsLionsgate Hit With Layoffs as 50 Staffers CutLionsgate was hit with layoffs on Thursday as 50 staffers, or approximately 5% of its workforce, were let go.The company had endured layoffs earlier this year as 5% of workers were notified their jobs were eliminated, representing a total headcount reduction of 13% over the past nine months. These additional layoffs are part of corporate cost-cutting measures amid an “industry environment characterized by unprecedented change and disruption,” Lionsgate’s CEO Jon Feltheimer said in a note to staff.“We are continuing to adapt our organization to these changes in order to compete successfully,” Feltheimer wrote in the memo. “As part of this process, we separated Lionsgate and Starz into independent standalone companies earlier this year, and we are continuing to monetize non-core assets, re-allocate our resources to growth areas of the business and reduce costs.”He added, “These are difficult decisions impacting colleagues with whom we have collaborated for years and who have...See full article at Variety - Film News9/18/2025by Rebecca RubinVariety - Film NewsMarvel Officially Reveals The Fate Of Daredevil: Born Again Ahead Of Season 2Daredevil fans have much to look forward to. Not only is "Daredevil: Born Again" season 2 currently in production and set to be released on Disney+ next year, but it also looks like Marvel Studios has no interest in letting Charlie Cox's Matt Murdock leave the Marvel Cinematic Universe any time soon. That's because the show has already been renewed for a season 3, well ahead of the season 2 premiere.Speaking with IGN, Brad Winderbaum, the head of streaming, television, and animation at Marvel Studios, revealed that "Born Again" season 3 has been given the green light. Winderbaum was promoting the release of the upcoming "Marvel Zombies" animated series, but he had...See full article at Slash Film9/18/2025by Ryan ScottSlash FilmOscars best international feature 2026: Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Montenegro, Nepal join raceEntriesforthe2026Oscar forbest international feature areunderway, andScreenisprofilingeachtitle onthispage.The 98th Academy Awards is set to take place on March 15, 2026 at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles.Aninternational feature film is defined as a feature-length motion picture (over 40 minutes) produced outside the US with a predominantly (more than 50%) non-English dialogue track and can include animated and documentary features.Submitted films must have been released theatrically in their respective countries between October 1, 2024, and September 30, 2025. The deadline for submissions to the Academyis October 1, 2025.Ashortlistof 15finalistsisscheduledtobeannouncedonDecember 16, 2025, with the final five nominees announced on January 22, 2026.The2024 awards saw 89 submissionswiththefivenominatedfilmscomprising Denmark’sThe Girl With The Needle,...See full article at ScreenDaily9/18/2025ScreenDaily‘I’m a hustler, a grinder’: Teyana Taylor on music, motherhood and One Battle After AnotherShe was discovered by Pharrell Williams, signed by Kanye West and worked with Beyoncé – all by her early 20s. Now the star of Paul Thomas Anderson’s latest film is creating a buzz in HollywoodTeyana Taylor is – as she often says to interviewers – the entertainment equivalent of “a Glade plug-in” air freshener: put her in “any socket” and she will make “every room smell good”. And, at 34, she has the CV to prove it. After kicking off her career at 15 as a choreographer for Beyoncé (she later showcased her own moves to millions in the headline-grabbing video for Kanye West’s 2016 single Fade), the New York native began making her own critically acclaimed,...See full article at The Guardian - Film News9/18/2025by Rachel AroestiThe Guardian - Film News50 moreIMDb.com, Inc. takes no responsibility for the content or accuracy of the above news articles, Tweets, or blog posts. This content is published for the entertainment of our users only. The news articles, Tweets, and blog posts do not represent IMDb's opinions nor can we guarantee that the reporting therein is completely factual. Please visit the source responsible for the item in question to report any concerns you may have regarding content or accuracy.
More to exploreRecently viewedYou have no recently viewed pages
Get the IMDb AppSign in for more accessSign in for more accessFollow IMDb on socialGet the IMDb AppFor Android and iOSHelpSite IndexIMDbProBox Office MojoLicense IMDb DataPress RoomAdvertisingJobsConditions of UsePrivacy PolicyYour Ads Privacy ChoicesIMDb, an Amazon company© 1990-2025 by IMDb.com, Inc.Back to top