Best Cellphone Plans 2025 | Compare Top Mobile Phone Plans and Carriers - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechMobile Wireless Plans
Best Cellphone Plans of 2025: Our Top Picks
We're here to make sense of the top postpaid and prepaid plans from AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon, Mint Mobile, US Mobile and others.
Our Experts
Written by
Jeff Carlson
Article updated on August 29, 2025 at 3:29 AM PDT
Jeff Carlson Senior Writer Jeff Carlson writes about mobile technology for CNET. He is also the author of dozens of how-to books covering a wide spectrum ranging from Apple devices and cameras to photo editing software and PalmPilots. He drinks a lot of coffee in Seattle. Expertise mobile technology, apple devices, generative ai, photography
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Phone plans are complex; there's no getting around it. A plan that's great for one person might not be as good for an entire family. Or maybe you're looking for perks like streaming video to save a few bucks versus subscribing separately. We've put together recommendations from major carriers like AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon, as well as smaller services such as Mint Mobile and Google Fi Wireless. For most of our picks, we've included both types of plans: Postpaid plans, where you pay at the end of the month for the data and any other additional charges, and prepaid plans, where you pay a fixed amount at the beginning of a monthly period and no more. Our Picks
Best value for a single line (postpaid) T-Mobile Essentials Saver
Jump to details
$50 at T-Mobile
Jump to details
Best value for a single line (prepaid) US Mobile Unlimited Flex
Jump to details
$17.50 at US Mobile
Jump to details
Best for value with multiple lines T-Mobile Essentials
Jump to details
$90 (3 lines) at T-Mobile
Jump to details
Best value for a family of four (prepaid) Google Fi Wireless Unlimited Standard
Jump to details
$100 (4 lines) at Google Fi
Jump to details
Best phone plan for 15GB of data or less Mint Mobile 15GB
Jump to details
$20 at Mint Mobile
Jump to details
Best budget plan without data TextNow Essential Data
Jump to details
Free at TextNow
Jump to details
Best phone plan for perks Verizon Unlimited Welcome
Jump to details
$120 (3 lines) at Verizon
Jump to details
Best phone plan for seniors T-Mobile Essentials Choice 55
Jump to details
$45 at T-Mobile
Jump to details
Best phone plan for international travel Verizon Unlimited Ultimate
Jump to details
$90 at Verizon
Jump to details
Show 4 more
Featured Deal What is this?
Unlimited premium data and a 5-year price guarantee T-Mobile Experience Beyond
See at T-Mobile
MOBILE DEALS OF THE WEEK
iPhone 17 Pro (With Trade-in and 24-Month Plan):  $0 (save $1,100)
Samsung Galaxy S25 128GB With Unlimited Plan for $30 Per Month ($720 Upfront):  $360 (save $440)
Google Pixel 9a 128GB Unlocked Phone With Gemini (Obsidian):  $449 (save $50)
OnePlus 13R 256GB Unlocked Phone (Nebula Noir):  $550 (save $50)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Cellphone Plans of 2025: Our Top Picks
What is the best phone plan overall?
Best value phone plans for a single line
Best value for a single line (postpaid)
Best value for a single line (prepaid)
Best for value with multiple lines
Best value for a family of four (prepaid)
Best phone plan for 15GB of data or less
Best budget plan without data
Best phone plan for perks
Best phone plan for seniors
Best phone plan for international travel
Unlimited premium data and a 5-year price guarantee
Best cellphone plans compared
Recent updates
Factors to consider
How we test
Phone plan FAQs
What is the best phone plan overall?Would that it were so simple. People have all sorts of needs for talk, text and data usage on their phones, which is why we've made recommendations in multiple categories.As you evaluate phone plans, think about how you use your phone. Are you mostly at home or another location where there's plentiful Wi-Fi? You may be fine with an inexpensive plan with a small amount of cellular high-speed data. Or, if you frequently travel or are out and about all day, having unlimited, unrestricted data and high speeds is likely more important.For this guide, we're leaning more toward value than seeing how many features we can pack into an expensive plan. You can always look at our picks and then move up the list of what the companies offer to find the mix of features and monthly cost that's the most comfortable for you.Best value phone plans for a single line
T-Mobile/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
T-Mobile/CNET
Best value for a single line (postpaid)
T-Mobile Essentials Saver
Pros
T-Mobile's 5G network is generally robust
Plan includes 50GB of high-speed data in the US
Phone can be used as a hotspot
Unlimited calls, texts and data in Canada and Mexico
Cons
Data in Canada and Mexico limited to very slow 2G speeds
Hotspot is limited to 3G speeds
No five-year price guarantee
Everyone must be on the same plan
Taxes and fees aren't included in monthly cost
The T-Mobile Essentials Saver plan offers unlimited data usage and includes 50GB of "Premium" data, which is the fastest-capable 5G rate available in your area. After 50GB, speeds are reduced to 3G levels for the remainder of the month. However, that Premium may not always be so premium: T-Mobile notes in the fine print that "Essentials customers may notice speeds lower than other customers and further reduction if using >50GB/month, due to data prioritization."You can use your phone as a mobile hotspot, also with unlimited data, but at 3G speeds. High-speed hotspot access is available as an add-on. Internationally, calls, text and data are unlimited when in Canada and Mexico, but the data is restricted to 2G speeds. Elsewhere, calls cost 25 cents per minute and texts are unlimited at no extra charge when you're in roughly 215 countries.As for other T-Mobile features, you'll have to look further up the plan menu. Essentials Saver and Essentials don't carry the five-year price guarantee found in the Experience plans, nor do they include T-Satellite texting access, but you can add the Starlink-based service as an optional add-on when it launches on July 23. Perks are also reserved for the costlier plans, which means no included Netflix, Apple TV Plus or Hulu streaming thrown in.The Essentials Saver plan costs $50 a month for a single line, $80 for two lines and $100 for three lines, the maximum number allowed on this plan. If you need three or more lines, the Essentials plan is a better value.Why we like itProviders want to push you toward their more expensive offerings, but they also know there's a place for cost-conscious people who want just the basics. Essentials Saver includes 50GB of fast data before the data rate slows down. And even though the hotspot feature is especially pokey at 3G speeds, it's still there in a pinch if needed.Who it's best forThe Essentials Saver plan is great for individuals or pairs who don't want to spend much for a cellular plan and aren't looking for perks or fast data.Who shouldn't get itThe plan isn't for people seeking features such as larger amounts of premium data, regular hotspot access or included perks, or folks who need to set up a family or group with three or more lines.Customer service options• Online: T-Mobile• Phone: 1-855-315-6244• Store: Store locator• App: T-Life app  ... Show more
Get it now
$50 at T-Mobile
Specs & Configurations
High-speed data
50GBHotspot data
Unlimited 3GMax number of lines
3Streaming resolution
480p (SD)
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best value for a single line (prepaid)
US Mobile Unlimited Flex
Pros
Runs on Verizon's network for "Warp" service, AT&T's for its "Dark Star" or T-Mobile's for "Light Speed"
10GB high-speed data, then unlimited at slower speed
Taxes and fees are included in the sticker price
5GB of hotspot data
Cons
Limited times you can switch networks for free
The Multi-Network add-on is available only in the Unlimited Premium plan
Phone data slows to 1Mbps after high-speed data is used up
Cheapest rate requires annual purchase
With the three major carriers in the US, you’re using their infrastructure, and if there aren’t any high-speed towers in your area, you’re out of luck. By contrast, US Mobile calls itself a Super Carrier because, without a network of its own, it rides those three networks. They’re given special names -- no doubt to avoid advertising for the competition -- and they break down like this: Dark Star is AT&T, Warp is Verizon and Light Speed is T-Mobile.That sounds convoluted, but it means you can switch to a better network for your area if needed without transitioning to an entirely new carrier. You still need to choose one, but you get two free network transfers and then pay $2 per transfer if you want to switch again after that -- it’s a good way to see which one works best in your area.OK, to be fair, it can get more convoluted, depending on the network. Dark Star data speeds are at a reduced priority (dubbed QCI 9) in times of network congestion; for an additional $12 a month you can bump that up to a higher priority (QCI 8). With the Warp level, data speeds are at QCI 9 as of Aug. 18, 2025, with the ability to pay more for a QCI-8 add-on; plans in place before then are grandfathered at the QCI 8 speed. The Light Speed level is even higher priority at QCI 7.The Unlimited Flex plan gives you 10GB of high-speed data, then unlimited at 1Mbps, for just $17.50 a month if you purchase an annual plan (otherwise it’s $25 a month). Hotspot data is 5GB and then unlimited but throttled to 8Mbps and then 600Kbps if you use more than 200GB within a month. International calls and texts from inside the US are included, but if you’re traveling you’ll need to buy add-on roaming packages costing either $15 (1GB, 150 minutes, 150 texts) or $30 (5GB, 500 minutes, 500 texts).Why we like itIt’s an inexpensive plan with taxes and fees rolled into the price, plus you get the ability to surf among the major carrier networks to find the one that works best for your area.Who it’s best forSomeone looking for a simple phone line who doesn’t expect to use much data.Who shouldn’t get itIf you’re frequently away from Wi-Fi, that data could go by in a hurry. It’s also not a great option if you need consistently high speeds, or you don’t want the complexity of choosing one of the three networks.Customer service options• Online: US Mobile • Phone: 878-205-0088 • Store: n/a • App: US Mobile iOS, Android  ... Show more
Get it now
$17.50 at US Mobile
Specs & Configurations
High-speed data
10GB then unlimited at 1MbpsHotspot data
5GB then unlimited throttled to 8Mbps or 600KbpsMax number of lines
UnlimitedStreaming resolution
480p (SD)
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
camera lens James Martin/CNET
Best for value with multiple lines
T-Mobile Essentials
Pros
T-Mobile's 5G network is generally robust
Plan includes 50GB of high-speed data in the US
Phone can be used as a hotspot
Unlimited calls, texts and data in Canada and Mexico
Can have up to six lines on an account
Third line free is a better deal than Essentials Saver
Cons
Data in Canada and Mexico limited to very slow 2G speeds
Hotspot is limited to 3G speeds
No five-year price guarantee
Everyone must be on the same plan
Taxes and fees aren't included in monthly cost
If you compare the specifics of T-Mobile's Essentials and Essentials Saver plans, you might think the company forgot to update one or the other -- they're Essential-ly the same. With both, you get 50GB of fast Premium 5G data (depending on the network capabilities in your area), which drops to 3G speeds of still-unlimited data after that allotment is used up. You can use your phone as a mobile hotspot with unlimited data, but only at 3G speeds and restricted to paltry 2G speeds when you're in Canada or Mexico. In those two countries, calls, text and data are unlimited, while calls made from around 215 other countries are charged at 25 cents a minute.The Essentials plan also doesn't include perks such as streaming video from Netflix or Apple TV Plus, nor the five-year price guarantee found on the Experience More and Experience Beyond plans. T-Satellite service is also not included, though it can be added for $10 a month.Where Essentials comes out ahead of Essentials Saver is the number of lines you can have on your account. Essentials Saver is limited to just three, but Essentials can accommodate six lines. In fact, a trio of people will save money going with Essentials due to a free third-line deal, paying $90 a month (plus taxes and fees) for a $10 savings over Essentials Saver.However, if you need just one or two lines, Essentials Saver is still the better deal. A single line on Saver is still the better offer at $50 a month compared with $60 for the same features on Essentials, and two lines on Saver costs $80 a month compared with $90 for Essentials.Why we like itYou get a solid level of basic phone service, with unlimited calls, texts and data, 50GB of premium higher-speed data and better pricing than the Essentials Saver plan for three or more lines (up to six).Who it's best forEssentials is great for a cost-conscious family of three or more that wants unlimited everything, even at some slower speeds.Who shouldn't get itThis plan isn’t for people who want features such as larger amounts of premium data, regular hotspot access or included perks, or folks who need to set up a family or group with three or more lines.Customer service options• Online: T-Mobile• Phone: 1-855-315-6244• Store: Store locator• App: T-Life app  ... Show more
Get it now
$90 (3 lines) at T-Mobile
Specs & Configurations
High-speed data
50GBHotspot data
Unlimited 3GMax number of lines
6Streaming resolution
480p (SD)
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best value for a family of four (prepaid)
Google Fi Wireless Unlimited Standard
Pros
Runs on T-Mobile's network
Can add Samsung or Google cellular smartwatches at no extra charge
Includes hotspot data
Free international calls to Mexico and Canada
Cons
High-speed hotspot data counts toward monthly high-speed data usage
Taxes and fees not included
No international data
Looking at the Google Fi Wireless plans, the Ultimate Essentials stands out for a group of four lines by coming in at $90, or just $23 per person for a month (plus taxes and fees). That's the inexpensive pick, but not necessarily the value choice. For just $10 more at $100 for four lines, the Unlimited Standard plan includes 50GB of high-speed data, 25GB of hotspot tethering and free calls to Canada and Mexico for each line. On compatible phones, you get 5G access for unlimited talk and text, which is largely carried by T-Mobile's network.Not so great is the drop-off of data speeds after you’ve exhausted the 50GB of high-speed data -- then the service crawls at 256kbps for the rest of the month. You can pony up $10 per gigabyte to get back into the fast lane if needed, but that can get expensive real quick. Also, that 25GB of high-speed hotspot data counts toward the 50GB of fast data.Why we like itCompared with similarly priced prepaid plans by Metro or Cricket, Google Fi Wireless comes out ahead at the same price with its 50GB of high-speed data and hotspot feature.Who it's best forIt's an affordable plan for a family with average data needs.Who shouldn't get itPeople who frequently stream video or primarily use cellular data instead of local Wi-Fi.Customer service options• Online: Google Fi Wireless• Phone: 844-825-5234• Store: n/a• App: Google Fi  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 (4 lines) at Google Fi
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best phone plan for 15GB of data or less
Mint Mobile 15GB
Pros
Runs on T-Mobile's network
More data than some comparably priced plans from other prepaid rivals
Free calling to Canada, Mexico and the UK
Cons
Best pricing often requires a full year commitment or is limited to new customers
Hotspot data comes out of monthly allotment
Despite the fact that we think most everyone can benefit from having an unlimited data plan, sometimes that's just too much data, and too much expense. When you aren't streaming movies or checking social media frequently (away from Wi-Fi), a limited amount of data on a plan can be just the right amount.Mint Mobile’s 15GB Plan costs as little as $20 a month when you pay up front for a year or take advantage of a three-month new customer offer. For that price you get unlimited talk and text using T-Mobile's 5G/4G LTE network and the 15GB of high-speed data (then slower unlimited data if you blow past that allotment). It also includes free calling to Canada, Mexico and the UK, as well as 10GB of hotspot data (which comes out of the 15GB total).Why we like itWith T-Mobile's network as the backbone, Mint Mobile's plan offers many of the same features as the larger carrier, but at a reduced, affordable prepaid scale.Who it's best forPeople who want the features of most mobile plans but won't use much data.Who shouldn't get itSomeone who obsesses over data usage or is concerned about hitting the 15GB limit.Customer service options• Online: Mint Mobile Help Center• Phone: 800-683-7392• Store: n/a• App: Mint Mobile  ... Show more
Get it now
$20 at Mint Mobile
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best budget plan without data
TextNow Essential Data
Pros
Runs on T-Mobile's network
Free talk and text
Cons
Need to use the TextNow app to call and text
App has ads
Minimal cellular data
No access to services like WhatsApp, iMessage or FaceTime over cellular
Adding data is pricey
Today’s phones are so data-consuming that it's hard to imagine not using any data at all. And yet that's pretty close to what you'd be using with TextNow's Essential Data plan, which includes just 350MB (yes, megabytes) and costs... nothing. Well, there's a $5 fee for purchasing a SIM, but otherwise the service is free.The catch is that calls and texts happen inside the TextNow app, not in the phone, messages, WhatsApp or other communications app that uses data. And because you're locked into the app, you're also served ads. TextNow uses T-Mobile’s network for wireless access. If you do need data access, TextNow has "passes" you can purchase, like a 99-cent hour pass that includes 300MB of high-speed data and then unlimited at 2G speeds, or a $5 day pass with 2GB of high-speed data and then unlimited 2G data. There's also a $40 month pass with 10GB of high-speed data and no ads, but if you're spending that much, it makes sense to go with a cheaper plan from another provider with more options.Why we like itAside from the fee for purchasing a SIM and putting up with ads, it's hard to beat free.Who it's best forSomeone who rarely needs to use a phone, or has a basic phone as a backup or burner.Who shouldn't get itIn reality, most people will avoid this plan because much of how we use phones these days centers around data.Customer service options• Online: TextNow Help • Phone: n/a• Store: n/a• App: TextNow app  ... Show more
Get it now
Free at TextNow
Specs & Configurations
High-speed data
350MBHotspot data
n/aMax number of lines
n/aStreaming resolution
n/a
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best phone plan for perks
Verizon Unlimited Welcome
Pros
Verizon's 4G LTE network is a strong backbone
Can still get perks
Can mix and match plans
Three-year price guarantee
Cons
No access to Verizon's fastest 5G networks
No hotspot data included
Verizon's Unlimited Welcome sounds like the happiest greeter at your favorite store or restaurant. And if you're looking for a bare-bones plan with just the basics, it has some compelling features. At the top of that pros list is just how modular Verizon's plans are. Each person on an account can pick a different plan that suits them (unlike T-Mobile and AT&T, which require everyone to share the same plan at this comparative entry level). Whereas other providers reserve perks such as streaming services for the higher-tier plans, you can add them piecemeal to customize what you need -- typically for $10 a month for each, depending on the service. That includes a Disney Plus, Hulu and ESPN Plus bundle (with Ads); Netflix and Max bundle (with Ads); and a family subscription to Apple One (for $20). Although it feels like annoying upselling, you get to pick and choose which ones you want. All perks can be turned on or off at will, or you could forgo them entirely. You can even go with multiple perks on a single line if you want. That add-on approach applies to mobile hotspot data, too. By itself, the plan offers no way to wirelessly share your cellular connection from your phone, but for an additional $10 you can add 100GB of data.International options include unlimited talk and text in Canada and Mexico and 2GB of high-speed data before ratcheting down to unlimited data at 3G speeds.However, the Unlimited Welcome plan isn't as welcome when it comes to 5G data speeds. It can only tap into regular low-band 5G. Even if you had a capable device and were within range of a midband or millimeter wave 5G signal, you wouldn't be able to take advantage of Verizon's fastest 5G Ultra Wideband ("5G UW" or "5G UWB") speeds.Why we like itThere's no set amount of high-speed data before a line is throttled, so you don't need to keep an eye on your data usage -- but at the same time, this plan only supports 5G, not 5G Ultra Wideband. We also like that each person on a Verizon account can have their own plan with different perks. In a family, for example, an adult could add hotspot data (for an extra $10), but it can be left off for a child who doesn’t need it.Who it's best forFamilies who want to keep costs low but still have options for some perks.Who shouldn't get itAnyone who wants to connect at higher 5G speeds and take advantage of the 5G connectivity capabilities they paid for when buying a phone.Customer service optionsOnline: VerizonPhone: 800-922-0204Store: Store locatorApp: My Verizon  ... Show more
Get it now
$120 (3 lines) at Verizon
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best phone plan for seniors
T-Mobile Essentials Choice 55
Pros
5G connectivity and 50GB of high-speed data in the US
An affordable plan for seniors who just want to use their phone for basic apps and tasks without watching much video
Cons
The plan allows a maximum of only two lines
The 480p video quality is very low
The 3G tethering speed is too slow for much more than checking email
The plan lacks bundled extras like streaming service subscriptions
For one or two people who just want to stay connected at reasonable speeds but don't need a lot of extra features (or don't want to pay too much), T-Mobile offers an inexpensive plan for older adults with Essentials Choice 55. This plan includes 5G access and is $45 per month for one line or $60 per month for two lines if you sign up with autopay. It's a good value for one or two people, though they won't be able to expand to three or four lines.The trade-off is in the fine print. With Essentials Choice 55, customers will get lower speeds when they use over 50GB of data in a month or when T-Mobile's network is congested from extensive customer activity, suggesting these customers are less prioritized than others. Video quality also "typically" streams at 480p, and tethering maxes out at 3G speeds (or 2G speeds in Mexico and Canada). The plan does give users access to T-Mobile's Scam Shield, an app service that can auto-block suspected scam calls and let you change your number once a year if the calls get overwhelming. On the other hand, its mobile hotspot data is limited to T-Mobile's older, slower 3G network.Why we like itIt's an affordable plan for one or two seniors, with a good balance of features. The Scam Shield app is a good perk.Who it's best forSomeone who wants fast access to data in their apps but isn't concerned about speedy hotspot tethering.Who shouldn't get itFolks who need more than two lines on an account or who want more overall performance.Customer service options• Online: T-Mobile• Phone: 1-855-315-6244• Store: Store locator• App: T-Life app  ... Show more
Get it now
$45 at T-Mobile
Specs & Configurations
High-speed data
50GBHotspot data
Unlimited at 3G speedsMax number of lines
2Streaming resolution
480p (SD)
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best phone plan for international travel
Verizon Unlimited Ultimate
Pros
Access to Verizon's fastest 5G networks
More hotspot data
Can get perks like the streaming bundles as paid add-ons
Better trade-in offers
Can mix and match plans on the same account
Cons
Plans are pricier than Welcome
Verizon makes the pricing complicated on its website
If you're going to call a plan Unlimited Ultimate, it had better deliver on everything. Verizon's most expensive plan is also the one that won't make you worry about data limits or international roaming charges.It provides access to the highest 5G Ultra Wideband (5G UW/5G UWB) data speeds -- assuming your phone is capable -- with no high-speed limit as on many other value plans. At that data rate, movies can stream at up to 4K resolution, or 1080p when connected to a regular 5G or 4G LTE network. Hotspot data flows at its highest speed for 200GB and then drops to 6Mbps for unlimited data the rest of the month. The Unlimited Ultimate plan also carries Verizon's three-year price lock guarantee.For international travel, you get unlimited talk, text and data while in Canada and Mexico at the top speeds available up to 2GB a day, and then 3G speeds thereafter. In more than 210 other countries, calls and texts are unlimited, with 15GB of high-speed data followed by unlimited data at 1.5Mbps. The plan includes unlimited texting from the US to over 200 countries and territories. If you frequently call friends or family in one of 140 countries, the plan includes up to 300 minutes a month.Why we like itWe like that there are extra benefits when you're in a 5G Ultra Wideband network area, such as higher streaming resolution and optimized video calling.Who it's best forVerizon customers who want all the data and speeds, and are willing to pay for it. It's also a great choice for frequent international travelers.Who shouldn't get itCustomers who are trying to save money, or who don't own a recent phone that can fully take advantage of the 5G Ultra Wideband network areas.Customer service options• Online: Verizon• Phone: 800-922-0204• Store: Store Locator• App: My Verizon  ... Show more
Get it now
$90 at Verizon
Best cellphone plans compared
PlanCost 1 line (autopay)Cost 4 lines (autopay)High-speed dataHotspot data limitPrice guaranteeMax number of linesStreaming resolution T-Mobile Essentials Saver$50n/a50GBUnlimited 3Gn/a3480p (SD)T-Mobile Essentials$60$10550GBUnlimited 3Gn/a6480p (SD)T-Mobile Essentials Choice 55$45n/a50GBUnlimited 3Gn/a2480p (SD)US Mobile Unlimited Flex$17.50n/a10GB5GBn/aUnlimited480p (SD)Google Fi Wireless Unlimited Standard$50$10050GB25GBn/a6480p (SD)Mint Mobile 15GB$20n/a15GB10GBn/an/a480p (SD)TextNow Essential DataFreen/a350MBn/an/an/an/aVerizon Unlimited Welcome$65$120Unlimited 5G (but no access to 5G UW/5G UWB)Not included; 100GB can be added as a perk for $10 per month3 years12480p (SD)Verizon Unlimited Ultimate$90$220Unlimited200GB3 years12Up to 4K
Recent updates
T-Mobile shook up its plans (again) in early 2025, replacing its Go5G Plus and Go5G Next plans with Experience More and Experience Beyond. And yet, the stalwart Essentials and Essentials Saver plans are still in the lineup as lower-cost alternatives to the bells-and-whistles Experience plans. It also announced that the Starlink-based T-Satellite service is included in Experience Beyond and Go5G Next plans, and available as a $10 a month add-on for other plans (even extended to competing carriers).Since we updated this guide, Verizon has added a three-year price guarantee to its plans.Also since the the last update, the Google Fi Wireless Unlimited Standard plan replaced Simply Unlimited, boosting the high-speed data from 35GB to 50GB and the hotspot data from 5GB to 25GB before the speed is throttled.In June 2025 AT&T announced a new plan for seniors, AT&T 55 Plus, which at $40/month for a single line or $70/month for two lines is the cheapest option among the major carriers. However, it's not clear how much high-speed data you'll get -- AT&T says unlimited 5G access is included but that data speeds can be throttled if the network is busy. If you're already an AT&T customer, this could be a good option for reducing your monthly bill. That said, we still think T-Mobile's Essentials Choice 55 plan provides the best overall value.US Mobile changed the network priority level of its Warp (Verizon) level as of Aug. 18, 2025, to QCI 9 instead of the higher-priority QCI 8. However, anyone on Warp before that date keeps the QCI 8 designation. Factors to consider
A wireless carrier saying it offers 5G is like me saying I have a car. Good for me -- but what make and model is it? Does it run reliably? Can it actually get up to the top speed on the speedometer or will it sputter when I try to merge onto the freeway? And could I have gotten the same performance if I'd paid less for a model without extras like heated seats and a TruCoat sealant?As you're evaluating carriers, keep the following things in mind.
Emergency SOS might be one of the most important features to come out on any phone this year. Kevin Heinz/CNETKnow your areaWireless coverage can make or break a plan. If you aren't getting reliably fast connections, or if calls often drop or aren't picked up, then you could be paying for more than you're getting. Fortunately, most areas of the US are blanketed by some type of cellular coverage, so there aren't as many dead zones as there used to be. (And now satellite service is starting to fill those holes.) The major companies are also putting a lot of money and effort into broadening their coverage.On the other hand, even in a dense area, one carrier's network may be stronger than another's, or signals could be reduced due to interference. So the best approach is to ask friends or family members which services they use and if the quality is acceptable. You can also test-drive services to see how your devices work in your area. (See the FAQ below for more on how reliable coverage maps can be.)Know your deals and discountsOne other thing to keep in mind: discounts. All the carriers offer additional discounts you could be eligible for, depending on your employer, military status, student status or age.First responders, military members, veterans, nurses and teachers can get discounts on every major carrier. Verizon has discounts for students, while T-Mobile's Work perk could knock 15% off the monthly price of an Experience More or Experience Beyond plan, with AT&T offering a similar program for its Unlimited Premium PL plan. AT&T also has a promotion for teachers that offers 25% off its latest unlimited plans.If you're 55 or older, you may also be eligible for a discounted plan: T-Mobile offers discounted plans nationwide for as low as $55 a month for two lines. Verizon and AT&T offer similar options, but only for Florida residents. It's also worth noting that some carriers may advertise different rates geared toward switchers on their websites, for example if you bring your own phone (not trade in and finance a new one on an installment plan). Our recommendations reflect the actual rate outside of these very specific promotions. How we test
Picking a wireless plan and carrier is a highly personal process. What works for you and your family's needs may be vastly different from what your friends or neighbors are looking for. Even geographically, some areas have better AT&T coverage, while others work best on Verizon or T-Mobile. The picks we make are based on more than a decade of covering and evaluating wireless carriers, their offerings and overall performance. Specifically, we take into account coverage, price/value, and perks.
Getty ImagesCoverageSince all three major providers cover most of the country with reliable 4G LTE or 5G, this is largely a toss-up on a macro level. It's why we recommend a variety of eSIM options for figuring out what works best for you in your particular location, so you can best decide what's right for you. Looking at coverage maps on each provider's website will likely show that you get good coverage even if your experience isn't full bars or the fastest speeds. Price/valueValue is factoring in the total experience you might get, such as how much high-speed data you get and what's included in the sticker price. We also take into account whether a plan includes typical taxes and fees, or whether those are charged separately, inching your monthly bill up higher.
James Martin/CNETPerksPerks are add-ons beyond the core components of wireless service (talk, text and data). This could range from bundling in or discounting streaming services, to extra hotspot data, or the ability to use your phone internationally. Phone plan FAQs
How reliable are coverage maps?
The three major companies in the US -- AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon -- offer services directly and have robust nationwide networks that offer 4G LTE (fast) and 5G (even faster) data. They all promise coverage that blankets most of the US, and they're actively trying to build up 5G coverage everywhere they can.But maps are one thing and experience is another. That's why it's impossible to say that one carrier is objectively better than another. For example, T-Mobile's service in New York may be excellent, but Verizon is more reliable in rural Iowa. Or you may have basic 5G coverage but not faster millimeter wave 5G.If possible, ask neighbors, friends or family near you about which carriers they use and how fast or reliable the wireless service is. And don't forget to take into consideration not just where you live, but the places you frequent: Your house might get a clear connection, but your workplace could be in a cellular black hole.You may also be able to test-drive a network -- go to a carrier's store and ask if there are free ways to try out the company's service. T-Mobile offers a free three-month Network Pass, Verizon has a 30-day "trial" program, and AT&T has its own 30-day eSIM free trial program.
Show more
What to know about 5G
"5G" is an umbrella term that encompasses the current fifth-generation cellular wireless network technologies. All the major carriers and phones support 5G connections, which can offer faster data speeds than older technologies such as 4G LTE or 3G.Essentially there are three types of 5G: Millimeter-wave (mmWave), which can be fast but has limited range; low-band 5G, which has slower speeds but works on a broader range; and midband, which is a balance between the two that's faster than low-band but also covers a larger range than millimeter-wave. Midband also incorporates C-band, a batch of spectrum auctioned off by the Federal Communications Commission in 2021.Your phone's 5G connection depends on which type blankets the area you're in, as well as other factors, such as population density and infrastructure. For instance, mmWave is super fast, but its signals can be thwarted by buildings, glass, leaves, or by being inside of a structure.When your device is connected to a 5G network, it can show up as several variations such as 5G, 5G Plus, 5G UW or others, depending on the carrier. Here’s a list of icons you see at the top of your phone for the major services:AT&T: 5GE (which isn't actually 5G, but rather a sly marketing name for 4G LTE), 5G (low band), 5G Plus (mmWave, midband)Verizon: 5G (low band, also called "Nationwide 5G"), 5G UW/5G UWB (midband and mmWave, also called "5G Ultra Wideband")T-Mobile: 5G (low band), 5G UC (midband and mmWave, also called "Ultra Capacity 5G")
Show more
What's the difference between 'prepaid' and 'postpaid' plans?
When you're choosing a phone plan, there are generally two main options: a postpaid carrier like AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile (plus cable options like Spectrum Mobile and Xfinity Mobile) and prepaid providers such as Mint Mobile, Metro by T-Mobile, Google Fi Wireless and Cricket. The difference boils down to this: With postpaid, you're paying for your plan after you've used your service, while prepaid lets you buy that allotment in advance. Prepaid providers are generally cheaper than postpaid options, though they're also often (but not always) more limited when it comes to additional streaming perks, hotspot data or device discounts. To get a several-hundred-dollar trade-in credit toward a new iPhone, Pixel or Galaxy, you often will need to commit to a postpaid plan from one of the big three carriers and be willing to stay with that provider for 24 to 36 months. All three of the major wireless carriers also offer various discounts on the plan pricing depending on age, employment, military or veteran status or if you or someone on your family plan is a nurse, teacher or first responder. You can find details here for AT&T, T-Mobile and Verizon.
Show more
Why consider an unlimited plan?
Unlimited plans were once rarities, but now nearly all plans -- especially postpaid plans -- offer unlimited data. If you're on T-Mobile, all your plans are unlimited, and Verizon no longer lets new users sign up for a shared data plan. Only AT&T still offers some tiered data plans where the flow of data stops when you've reached the limit.Though everyone's wireless needs are different, we think unlimited plans are the best option for most phone users, especially when it comes to choosing a new plan. For example, the AT&T 4GB plan isn't great. It has a 4GB per line plan that runs $50 a month for one line ($160 for four lines). Each line here gets 4GB of data, but if you go over that threshold in a month, you're paying $10 for every 2GB. AT&T's plan also doesn't include access to its 5G networks. The company's basic unlimited plan, Unlimited Starter, is $65 a month for one line or $140 for four lines.If you have one or two lines and don't use a lot of data, you may be fine with one of these plans, though if you have just one line, we'd recommend switching over to AT&T's $51 per month Value Plus VL or T-Mobile's Essentials Saver. Two lines of that T-Mobile plan run $80 a month, which is still $10 cheaper than two lines of AT&T's 4GB plan, and you won't have to worry about how much data you're using. For most people, we really do believe that unlimited is the best choice when choosing a new plan.
Show more
About the Author
Jeff Carlson Senior Writer Jeff Carlson Senior Writer
Jeff Carlson writes about mobile technology for CNET. He is also the author of dozens of how-to books covering a wide spectrum ranging from Apple devices and cameras to photo editing software and PalmPilots. He drinks a lot of coffee in Seattle.
Read full bio
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.