Hideo Kojima's Death Stranding anime reveals first trailer and working title
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Death Stranding 2: On the Beach
The anime set in the Death Stranding universe gets a first trailer
Hideo Kojima's foray into anime begins with Death Stranding Mosquito
By
Francesco Cacciatore
Published 7 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Death Stranding 2: On the Beach
Related
Xbox even more expensive after second price hike in 6 months
4 days ago
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
4 days ago
The Mandalorian and Grogu are back in first trailer for their Star Wars movie
1 day ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
add iframe code inside nonscript tag for crwaler
Image: Kojima Productions/ABC ANIMATION via Polygon
Fans of Hideo Kojima must feel truly ecstatic after Kojima Productions' 10th anniversary event on Tuesday. Not only did they get the first full trailer for OD - Knock, the anticipated video game collaboration between Kojima and Jordan Peele, but they were also treated to the trailer for Death Stranding Mosquito (working title), an anime set in the universe of Kojima's Death Stranding games. The anime movie will be directed by Hiroshi Miyamoto (Eiga Precure Dream Stars!, Dragon Ball Super: Super Hero) and produced by ABC ANIMATION STUDIO, with a screenplay by Aaron Guzikowski, who created and wrote the acclaimed (but still prematurely canceled) sci-fi show Raised by Wolves, produced by Ridley Scott.
Not much is known about Death Stranding Mosquito, but the trailer shows that the vibes and visuals will be in line with the eerie and somber atmosphere of the games. Two unnamed characters duke it out in a classic anime martial arts fight for most of the trailer. One seems dressed as a porter, like Sam Porter Bridges. The other has a creepy, elongated mosquito-like mouthpart made of tar, the supernatural, viscous black substance that plays an integral part in the Death Stranding games. Interestingly, this character also seems to be protecting a Beached Thing, further teasing a connection with the Beach. At the moment, there is no release date for Death Stranding Mosquito. A live-action movie adaptation of Death Stranding is also in the works, produced by Hideo Kojima and Hammerstone Studios' Alex Lebovici, and directed by Michael Sarnoski.
Anime
Movies
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
Sylvester Stallone using AI to play an 18-year-old Rambo sounds great
22 hours ago
Your favorite Dropout comedians return in Make Some Noise season 4 next month
5 days ago
The Dragon Prince fans are funding a spinoff series starring Liam O’Brien
1 day ago
I really need Dan Da Dan season 3 to not start with graphic violence
More from our brands
The Best Shonen Anime Of All Time (April 2025)
45 Best Comedy Anime To Watch Right Now
The 8 Best Anime Shows on Hulu Right Now
10 Anime With The Best Animation Streaming On Crunchyroll Right Now
A24's 'Death Stranding' Movie Gets a "Very Positive" Update Following the Video Game Sequel's Success
September 23 is Going to Be a Big Day for Hideo Kojima Fans
Hideo Kojima May Have to Break One of His Coolest Traditions With His Next Game
Most Popular
Weapons is getting an Aunt Gladys prequel — whether you like it or not
PlayStation's next State of Play streams this Wednesday
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
The Mandalorian movie could make up for Star Wars' biggest misfire
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
See More
Trending Now
3 cute, extremely gory stories from the set of Primate
It's official: Demon Slayer Infinity Castle beat Mugen train
New Palworld game is a cozy farming sim, gives Pals chainsaws
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.