Big Tech Employees on H-1B Visas Are Told They Need to Get Stateside
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Exclusive
Big Tech and finance companies are telling H-1B employees to get to the US in under 24 hours
By
Pranav Dixit
Employees at major tech and financial companies said they are getting internal communication not to leave the country or to come back by September 21.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
2025-09-20T07:09:00Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
President Donald Trump's executive order raises H-1B visa fees, affecting tech and finance workers.
The order requires a $100,000 fee for H-1B applications.
Big Tech employees were told to stay put, per employees and internal comms reviewed by Business Insider.
Employees at major tech and financial companies on H-1B visas were told to stay in the US following President Donald Trump's surprise executive order that makes it far more expensive — and potentially impossible — for them to return if they travel abroad.
Amazon, Microsoft, JPMorgan, and Meta are among those companies, per employees and internal communications reviewed by Business Insider.On Friday, Trump signed an executive order requiring companies to pay a $100,000 fee for each H-1B application. It is unclear if the order applies only to new applicants or also to renewals. The order, which takes effect on September 21 at 12:01 a.m. ET, effectively bars H-1B workers from reentering the country after that deadline unless their sponsoring employer pays the fee.
Amazon's internal guidance, posted just before 9 p.m. Pacific on Friday on its HR portal, warned employees: "If you have H-1B status and are in the US: Stay in the country for now, even if you have travel planned for the immediate future."The guidance also said: "If you have H-1B or H-4 status and are outside the US: Try to return before tomorrow's deadline if possible."Amazon's advisory added that anyone who cannot make it back in time should avoid attempting US reentry "until further guidance is provided."
Amazon employed nearly 15,000 workers under H-1B visas in fiscal year 2024, according to federal filings.Amazon did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Business Insider.Within hours of Trump signing the executive order, employees at Microsoft, Meta, and JPMorgan Chase received similar instructions, employees told Business Insider.
Multiple Microsoft employees shared an internal advisory with BI that directed visa holders in the US to stay put "for the foreseeable future" and advised those abroad to make every effort to return before the deadline. "We know this may interrupt your travel plans. But the critical thing is to stay in the US in order to avoid being denied reentry," the guidance said, according to five Microsoft employees.It acknowledged that the sudden order "may not leave much time to make travel arrangements" but encouraged employees to "do your best to return."The memo also sought to address workers' anxiety: "I know these developments are creating uncertainty for many of you. While we don't have all of the answers right now, we ask that you prioritize the recommendations above."
Microsoft declined to comment.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Meta and JPMorgan did not immediately respond to requests for comment. JPMorgan sponsored the most H-1B visas last year — nearly 2,000 — out of all finance firms, largely for workers with "software" in their title, Business Insider previously reported.Massive disruption to techThe urgency of these advisories highlights the massive disruption Trump's move could trigger across the US tech sector, which relies heavily on foreign-born engineers, developers, and other skilled workers on H-1B visas. Big Tech firms, including Amazon, Microsoft, Alphabet, Meta, and Apple, rank among the top sponsors of such visas, using the program to fill specialized technical roles amid fierce competition for talent.
Administration officials said the change is intended to ensure companies only hire foreign workers deemed "very valuable" and to push firms to train Americans instead."Either the person is very valuable to the company and America, or they're going to depart and the company is going to hire an American," Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick said when the order was announced.H-1B visas became a flash point before Trump's second inauguration, with Elon Musk and other tech leaders close to Trump supporting the visa as other Trump backers voiced support for stricter rules.
Trump told the New York Post in December that he has "always liked the visas.""I have many H-1B visas on my properties. I've been a believer in H-1B. I have used it many times. It's a great program," Trump said.Have a tip? Contact Pranav Dixit via email at pranavdixit@protonmail.com or Signal at 1-408-905-9124. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
Visa
Immigration
Meta
More
Amazon
Microsoft
JPMorgan
Exclusive
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account