Nasdaq Sustainability | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Close modal
Pardon our appearance
We are actively working to enhance your experience by translating more content. However, please be aware that the page you are about to visit has not yet been translated.
We appreciate your undertanding and patience as we continue to imporove our services.
Continue
Sustainability
Corporate Sustainability Program
Corporate Sustainability Solutions
More
Corporate Sustainability Program
Corporate Sustainability Solutions
Contact Us
Nasdaq Sustainability
Catalyzing Progress Toward a More Sustainable Tomorrow
At Nasdaq, we are committed to reimagining the capital markets for a better tomorrow, making them more sustainable and inclusive by advancing liquidity, transparency, and integrity throughout the global financial system.​Nasdaq’s approach to sustainability is focused both internally – by managing our businesses’ sustainability-related risks and opportunities and the corresponding impact we have as an organization across our own operations – and externally – by the impact we have on the world through the sustainability-related products and services that support our clients’ objectives, as well as the wider economic and societal impact across other key parts of our business and operations.
The most successful sustainability initiatives are those that can be upheld for the long-term, and the
groundwork we laid in recent years will help us do just that. I am confident that we will continue to build on our momentum — letting our past achievements fuel future successes and delivering even greater impact for our clients and for communities around the world.
Adena T. Friedman, Chair and Chief Executive Officer, Nasdaq
Our Corporate Sustainability Program
We deliver long-term value to stakeholders by solidifying our business resilience and driving sustainable growth through managing and reducing long-term risks and advancing sustainability practices across our organization.
Nasdaq 2024 Sustainability Report
Powering Resilient GrowthBrowse Nasdaq’s 2024 Summary Sustainability Report for a quick overview of our workforce engagement, ethical governance, environmental stewardship, and client and community support efforts. Explore the 2024 Summary Sustainability Report -> For additional details on our sustainability programs download our full 2024 Sustainability and TCFD Report. Download the Full 2024 Sustainability Report and TCFD Report ->
Nasdaq Sustainability Resource Center
Our Sustainability Strategy: Accurate & Transparent Disclosure
Nasdaq Supplier Sustainability
Supporting Suppliers that Align with Our Corporate Mission & Purpose
Enhancing Efficiency to Foster Resilient Growth
We are committed to minimizing our environmental footprint, meeting our net-zero goals, and solidifying our business against long-term climate risks. We aim to implement initiatives to decrease our GHG emissions, while ensuring transparency of our processes and programs that help us reach our long-term targets.
Learn more->
Empowering Our Workforce to Achieve Their Highest Potential
Our people are the driving force behind our success. Nasdaq’s ability to attract and retain top talent depends on fostering growth, engagement, and wellbeing. We invest in our employees by providing meaningful development opportunities, recognizing their contributions, and creating a supportive workplace.
Learn more->
Maintaining Governance Excellence to Power Long-Term Value
Our governance framework focuses on the interests of our shareholders. It is designed to promote governance transparency and ensure our Board has the necessary tools to review and evaluate our business operations and make decisions that are independent of management and in the best interests of our shareholders.
Learn more->
Making an Impact
The Purpose Initiative
Powering stronger economies, creating more equitable opportunities, and contributing to a more sustainable world.
Learn More->
Nasdaq Foundation
Equipping under-resourced communities with the financial knowledge to share in the wealth that markets create.
Learn more->
Inclusion & Belonging
Creating an environment where every employee can contribute meaningfully and feel a sense of belonging.
Learn more->
Nasdaq Goodworks
Identifying philanthropic and employee volunteer opportunities to help make a meaningful difference in our local communities and those around the world.
Learn more->
Our Sustainability Solutions & Services
At the epicenter of the capital markets and technology, Nasdaq is uniquely positioned to empower corporates, investors, and financial institutions with strategic solutions designed to help them achieve their sustainability objectives.
Corporate Solutions
Streamline sustainability and impact journeys
Sustainability & Climate Advisory: Pairing consulting engagement with sustainability and climate expertise to help companies analyze, assess, and action best-practice strategy with the goals of attracting long-term capital and enhancing value.Nasdaq Metrio™: A scalable sustainability reporting SaaS solution that enables corporates to collect, measure, disclose, and communicate investor-grade, auditable sustainability data efficiently across dozens of raters, rankers, and framework organizations to drive strategic outcomes and attract investors.Nasdaq Sustainable Lens®: Shaped by experts, powered by AI. Spend more time focused on strategic work by leveraging software to instantly answer questions, assess competitive positioning across any number of companies, monitor emerging trends, and ensure decision making is deeply evidence-based.
Streamline sustainability and impact journeys
Corporate Solutions
Sustainability & Climate Advisory: Pairing consulting engagement with sustainability and climate expertise to help companies analyze, assess, and action best-practice strategy with the goals of attracting long-term capital and enhancing value.Nasdaq Metrio™: A scalable sustainability reporting SaaS solution that enables corporates to collect, measure, disclose, and communicate investor-grade, auditable sustainability data efficiently across dozens of raters, rankers, and framework organizations to drive strategic outcomes and attract investors.Nasdaq Sustainable Lens®: Shaped by experts, powered by AI. Spend more time focused on strategic work by leveraging software to instantly answer questions, assess competitive positioning across any number of companies, monitor emerging trends, and ensure decision making is deeply evidence-based.
Investor Solutions
Enable data-driven impact investment decisions
Nasdaq eVestment - ESG Data in Asset Management: Unlock greater transparency for the global institutional market so investors can make better data-driven impact investment decisions​.Sustainability Data Hub: Sustainability Data via Nasdaq Data Link offers investors and other stakeholders easy access to a wide range of comprehensive ESG data sets.Green Equity Indexes: Complete family of environmental indexes.Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network: Access green, social, and sustainability bond data. The Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network connects issuers of sustainable bonds with investors, empowering them to evaluate impact and make informed investment decisions on sustainable bonds.Nasdaq Sustainable Debt Market: Raise debt capital for investment with clear benefits to the environment or social sustainability.Nasdaq Green Designations: Nasdaq Green Designations support equity issuers on Nasdaq European markets with their green business models and strategies.
Enable data-driven impact investment decisions
Investor Solutions
Nasdaq eVestment - ESG Data in Asset Management: Unlock greater transparency for the global institutional market so investors can make better data-driven impact investment decisions​.Sustainability Data Hub: Sustainability Data via Nasdaq Data Link offers investors and other stakeholders easy access to a wide range of comprehensive ESG data sets.Green Equity Indexes: Complete family of environmental indexes.Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network: Access green, social, and sustainability bond data. The Nasdaq Sustainable Bond Network connects issuers of sustainable bonds with investors, empowering them to evaluate impact and make informed investment decisions on sustainable bonds.Nasdaq Sustainable Debt Market: Raise debt capital for investment with clear benefits to the environment or social sustainability.Nasdaq Green Designations: Nasdaq Green Designations support equity issuers on Nasdaq European markets with their green business models and strategies.
Financial Institution Solutions
Capitalize end-to-end, mission-critical capabilities
AxiomSL: In 2024, Nasdaq added multijurisdictional risk and financial regulatory reporting across liquidity, capital and credit, operations, trade, and transaction reporting and ESG to help firms adhere to regulatory requirements at scale while also improving transparency and overall capital, liquidity, and credit management.Carbon Registry and Trading: Trade, issue, settle, and take custody of carbon credits with Nasdaq's cloud-based technology custom build for carbon markets.Puro.earth: A crediting platform for engineered carbon removal.
Capitalize end-to-end, mission-critical capabilities
Financial Institution Solutions
AxiomSL: In 2024, Nasdaq added multijurisdictional risk and financial regulatory reporting across liquidity, capital and credit, operations, trade, and transaction reporting and ESG to help firms adhere to regulatory requirements at scale while also improving transparency and overall capital, liquidity, and credit management.Carbon Registry and Trading: Trade, issue, settle, and take custody of carbon credits with Nasdaq's cloud-based technology custom build for carbon markets.Puro.earth: A crediting platform for engineered carbon removal.
Driving Real Impact and Creating Sustainable Markets
Contact us to learn more about our Sustainability Solutions & Services
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
My Quotes
My Quotes
My European Quotes
Watchlist
Portfolio
Add/Edit Symbols
View as Table
Add symbols now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Stocks, Funds, ETFs and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Instruments
View as Table
Add instruments now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Shares, Indexes, ETP and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Symbols
Edit Watchlist
Your Watchlist is empty.
Add/Edit Symbols
Create your Watchlist to save your favorite quotes on Nasdaq.com. Log in or create a free account to get started.
/
Outsmart the market with Smart Portfolio analytical tools powered by TipRanks. Go to Smart Portfolio
Back
Add a symbol to your watchlist
Most Active
Data is currently not available
Edit My Quotes
Add up to 25 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to My Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Edit My European Quotes
Add up to 25 instruments
To add instruments:
Type a instrument or company name. When the instrument you want to add appears, add it to My European Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple instruments separated by spaces.
These instruments will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Your symbols have been updated
You'll now be able to see real-time price and activity for your symbols on the My Quotes of Nasdaq.com.
Continue
Data is currently not available
Edit Watchlist
Add up to 20 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to Watchlist by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Opt in to Smart Portfolio
We are currently experiencing technical difficulties, please try again.
Smart Portfolio is supported by our partner TipRanks. By connecting my portfolio to TipRanks Smart Portfolio I agree to their Terms of Use.
Submit
Cancel
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies