Want to buy Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses? How to book a demo first (before it's too late) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Glasses
Want to buy Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses? How to book a demo first (before it's too late)
Booking a slot at Best Buy, LensCrafters, Sunglass Hut, and Ray-Ban stores will be the only way to purchase Meta Ray-Ban Display at launch on Sep. 30. And delays have already set in.
Written by
Jason Hiner, Editor in ChiefEditor in Chief
Sept. 20, 2025 at 3:15 a.m. PT
Here's pair of Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses and Neural Band in the Sand color. Kerry Wan/ZDNETMeta officially unveiled its first AI smart glasses with a built-in screen, the Meta Ray-Ban Display, at Meta Connect 2025. The company also revealed that the glasses will be available to purchase starting on September 30. However, if you want to buy a pair of the $799 smart glasses, you can't just pre-order them online. Instead, you'll have to book a demo at one of Meta's retail partners, such as Best Buy, LensCrafters, Sunglass Hut, or Ray-Ban stores. And not every store will be offering demos of Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses at launch. So you have to check the scheduling tool to find a store near you and then see what appointments they have available. The LensCrafters site says that appointments take 20 minutes.Also: I used the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they offer 2 breakthroughs to take us beyond smartphonesIf you were hoping to purchase a pair on launch day, you may already be out of luck. When I checked for demos in my area -- where there are multiple Best Buy, Sunglass Hut, and LensCrafter retail stores -- there was only one Best Buy offering demos and the earliest timeslot available to book was October 11. When I typed in various zip codes in New York, Chicago, San Francisco, and Los Angeles, there were a lot more stores offering demos but the earliest open slot I found was October 8. The vast majority of the available time slots were in mid to late October. Some stores are already booking into November.When you book a slot, it says, "You'll be guided through a hands-on demo" and "Associates will help you find the right style." To secure your slot, you also have to click an acknowledgement that says, "I understand that if I need prescription lenses, I must know my prescription details or wear my contact lenses to properly experience the demo. Demo glasses have a prescription range of -4.00 to +4.00 total power, single vision only. Availability may vary."
The Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses come with the Neural Band and a folding case for $799. Jason Hiner/ZDNETOnly those who get the demo will be able to purchase the glasses. This is likely one way that Meta is dealing with the constrained supply of its next-generation product, which integrates several breakthrough technologies, including a monocular LCOS display and an EMG wristband for neural input. Supply chain analyst Ming Chi Kuo has stated that Meta only plans to manufacture 150,000-200,000 units of the glasses over the next two years. Also: Meta Connect 2025 live updates: Reactions to Ray-Ban Display, Oakley Vanguard glasses, moreThe day after the official announcement of the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth did a Q&A on Instagram, explaining why Meta is taking this approach to sales of its new flagship glasses at launch. "We decided to put the [Meta Ray-Ban] Display on sale in retail stores first -- and people are setting up demos," said Bosworth. "A thing that happens with tech products is that they get purchased by people who just want to try them out [and then return them]. And we wanted to make sure that they're [bought by] ... people who really wanted them. But it's just a temporary thing." Bosworth added, "Of course, over time, we plan to have them available online through meta.com and other retailers."It makes sense that Meta doesn't want to have a large number of returns of a product that is difficult to manufacture and in such short supply at launch. Meta does a brisk business in refurbished units of the classic Meta Ray-Bans, which ZDNET has recommended as a great way to pick up a pair of the smart glasses at a discount. But refurbishing the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses with their expensive components and more complex technology could be a much bigger challenge while the product is first coming to market.Aside from the booking challenge, ZDNET recommends that most people who are interested in the Meta Ray-Ban Display book a demo to get a look at the technology. However, if you want to purchase a pair of smart glasses, then go with the newly updated Meta Ray-Bans Gen 2, Meta Oakley HSTN, or Meta Oakley Vanguard to get started in the ecosystem and see where smart glasses can fit into your work and lifestyle.  ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Should you buy the new Meta Ray-Bans? I tested every model, and here's how to decide
5 Meta Ray-Ban upgrades that have me truly hyped for September 17
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they got me excited for the post-smartphone era
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use