media queries Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
media queries
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
33 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article color-gamut
color media queries
color-gamut
The color-gamut media feature is used to apply CSS styles depending on whether or not your browser and device support a specific color gamut.
Sunkanmi Fafowora
on
Apr 25, 2025
Direct link to the article @media
media queries
@media
The CSS @media at-rule lets us target browsers by certain characteristics, features, and user preferences, then apply styles or run other code based on those things.
/* When the browser is at least 600px and above */
@media screen and …
Andrés Galante
on
Dec 20, 2024
Direct link to the article “Smart” Layouts With Container Queries
container-queries media queries rem
“Smart” Layouts With Container Queries
Modern CSS keeps giving us a lot of new, easier ways to solve old problems, but often the new features we’re getting don’t only solve old problems, they open up new possibilities as well.
Container queries are one of those …
Kevin Powell
on
Aug 14, 2024
Direct link to the article The New CSS Media Query Range Syntax
media queries responsive
The New CSS Media Query Range Syntax
The Media Queries Level 4 specification has introduced a new syntax for targeting a range of viewport widths using common mathematical comparison operators, like <, >, and =, that make more sense syntactically while writing less code for responsive web design.
Preethi Selvam
on
Oct 31, 2022
Direct link to the article Responsive Layouts, Fewer Media Queries
clamp flexbox grid media queries responsive
Responsive Layouts, Fewer Media Queries
We cannot talk about web development without talking about Responsive Design. It’s just a given these days and has been for many years. Media queries are a part of Responsive Design and they aren’t going anywhere. Since the introduction of …
Temani Afif
on
Jul 6, 2023
Direct link to the article Proposal for CSS @when
@when media queries
Proposal for CSS @when
CSS is on a tear lately. Again, I’ve heard of a brand new thing I’ve never seen before, and again it’s via Miriam: CSS Conditionals. …
Chris Coyier
on
Dec 27, 2021
Direct link to the article Can we have custom media queries, please?
media queries
Can we have custom media queries, please?
Stefan Judis notes that there is a spec for custom media queries, but seemingly no momentum on it at the moment. That lack of movement is unfortunate, as it’s almost guaranteed front-end developers all over would start using it as …
Chris Coyier
on
Sep 8, 2021
Direct link to the article Detecting Media Query Support in CSS and JavaScript
@supports media queries
Detecting Media Query Support in CSS and JavaScript
You can’t just do @media (prefers-reduced-data: no-preference) alone because, as Kilian Valkhof says:
[…] that would be false if either there was no support (since the browser wouldn’t understand the media query) or if it was supported but the …
Chris Coyier
on
Aug 23, 2021
Direct link to the article Are we in a new era of web design? What do we call it?
container-queries intrinsic design media queries responsive
Are we in a new era of web design? What do we call it?
Una is calling it the new responsive. A nod to the era we were most certainly in, the era of responsive design. Where responsive design was fluid grids, flexible media, and media queries, the new responsive is those things …
Chris Coyier
on
Jun 22, 2021
1
2
3
...
4
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top