javascript - What is the standard protocol for logging out a user in a React app? How to properly reset Redux and other state? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
What is the standard protocol for logging out a user in a React app? How to properly reset Redux and other state?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
50 times
-1
I'm building a React single-page application with authentication and Redux for state management. I need to ensure that when a user logs out, all app state—including Redux state, React Context, and local component state—is fully reset.
One approach I've seen (and tested) is:
window.location.reload();
This effectively resets the entire app, but it feels heavy-handed, causes a full page reload, and doesn’t allow for fine-grained control over cleanup.
My questions are:
Is calling window.location.reload() considered standard or acceptable for logging out in modern React apps, especially when using Redux?
What are the recommended alternatives to fully reset app state, including Redux state, React Context, and any internal component state, without reloading the page?
Are there common patterns or pitfalls for implementing a “soft logout” that ensures a clean slate for the next user session?
I’m looking for guidance on best practices in the React ecosystem for handling logout properly while ensuring all app state is cleared.
javascriptreactjsredux
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 55 mins ago
Drew Reese
206k1919 gold badges269269 silver badges289289 bronze badges
asked 2 hours ago
Bear Bile Farming is TortureBear Bile Farming is Torture
5,40788 gold badges4545 silver badges131131 bronze badges
2
Do you really need all of that? As user I think reload after logout is fine, it does feel like the app is "cleaned". Besides, your questions are mostly opinion-based, it's not a good fit here (The downvote isn't from me)
Lã Ngọc Hải
–
Lã Ngọc Hải
2025-09-18 03:23:33 +00:00
Commented
1 hour ago
Your post needs more focus, but... (1) Standard? No. Acceptable? Depends. This is subjective and off-topic. (2) This is also subjective and off-topic. (3) This one needs more details/explanation/clarification what exactly you are asking. Also, just generally asking for "best practices" is also considered subjective and off-topic. Each post should only contain a single specific and clearly defined programming/software-development question/problem to answer/solve. Feel free to review Help/How to Ask and the tour and revise your post to align with site standards.
Drew Reese
–
Drew Reese
2025-09-18 04:13:38 +00:00
Commented
51 mins ago
Add a comment
|
Related questions
652
How to reset the state of a Redux store?
794
What is the difference between state and props in React?
2
React router rerenders whole app and resets redux state tree?
Related questions
652
How to reset the state of a Redux store?
794
What is the difference between state and props in React?
2
React router rerenders whole app and resets redux state tree?
173
Is using Redux with Next.js an anti-pattern?
96
React with Redux? What about the 'context' issue?
5
How can I initialize Redux state for React component on its creation?
7
Redux state resets itself on route change (I think)
3
At what nesting the Context Provider should be wrapped while using react-router and redux?
0
Component not detecting state change using Redux and React without refreshing the component
Load 6 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
javascriptreactjsredux
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Featured on Meta
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Drawing vertical and horizontal vectors along a Bézier curve (without local rotation)
Why do we use こちら when introducing someone?
What is a resource on encodings for Turing machines?
My pure mathematics PhD dissertation will likely be very short. I have until the last day of January 2026 to remedy this. What can I do?
Why do complex questions lead to simple elegant answers?
What is a Pasted Word™?
Road trip movie about the young son of a millionaire who is sent on vacation to Spain
Multiply the input by 2
How to fix excessive dust / lint problem inside the house
Can a non-spellcaster use an Enspelled Weapon to cast its spell?
9/16/25 operations challenge
When do cartographers draw a line for the coast and when do they not?
Beyond first place?
Does a "Minimal" Grothendieck Universe Avoid Russell-Style Paradoxes?
Book about two ships that leave Earth decades apart but the later ship has FTL technology
Scalars, Vectors, Tensors: are they all?
What is a "mob" character in the context of Isekai works?
Is electrolysis of alumina (Al2O3) without cryolite possible to produce pure aluminum?
Energy Conservation for Quantum Systems
Can every closed connected manifold be the boundary of another manifold?
What was the "shear wedge" used on the Tethered Satellite System?
Is this alternating current Peltier device possible?
Define counters using a loop
Why is the Bonferroni correction needed?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-js
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093