Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityCloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
By Bill Toulas
September 23, 2025
11:58 AM
4
Cloudflare has mitigated a distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attack that peaked at a record-breaking 22.2 terabits per second (Tbps) and 10.6 billion packets per second (Bpps).
DDoS attacks typically exhaust either system or network resources, aiming to make services slow or unavailable to legitimate users.
Record-breaking DDoS attacks are becoming more frequent, as just three weeks ago, Cloudflare disclosed that it mitigated a massive 11.5 Tbps and 5.1 Bpps attack, the largest publicly announced at the time.
Two months before that, the company dealt with another ecord attack that peaked at 7.3 Tbps. In April, the internet giant warned that it was dealing with a record number of DDoS attacks this year.
The latest DDoS incident, also volumentric, lasted 40 seconds and is by far the largest ever mitigated.
Diagram of the record-breaking attackSource: Cloudflare
Despite the short assault period, the volume of traffic directed at the victim was enormous, roughly equivalent to streaming one million 4K videos simultaneously.
The packet rate of 10.6 Bpps can be translated to roughly 1.3 web page refreshes per second from every person on the planet.
The large volume of packets makes it particularly difficult for firewalls, routers, and load balancers to process the requests, even if the total bandwidth is manageable.
Although Cloudflare has not shared many details about the last two DDoS attacks, XLab research division at Chinese cybersecurity company Qi'anxin attributed an 11.5 Tb DDoS attack to the AISURU botnet.
According to the researchers, AISURU has infected more than 300,000 devices worldwide, with a sudden increase occuring in April 2025 after the compromise of a Totolink router firmware update server.
The botnet also targets vulnerabilities in IP cameras, DVRs/NVRs, Realtek chips, and routers from T-Mobile, Zyxel, D-Link, and Linksys.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
DDoS defender targeted in 1.5 Bpps denial-of-service attackCloudflare blocks largest recorded DDoS attack peaking at 11.5 Tbps“Rapper Bot” malware seized, alleged developer identified and chargedUK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptionsBoyd Gaming discloses data breach after suffering a cyberattack
Cloudflare
Cyberattack
DDoS
Distributed Denial-of-Service
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
Surfernaut
-
2 days ago
Back in 1999 I saw a huge influx of cyber attacks coming from China. Sent router log files to the FBI cyber crime page but nothing was ever done or addressed. I'm sure the majority of these attacks originate from the communist reds.
Drags
-
1 day ago
"Back in 1999 I saw a huge influx of cyber attacks coming from China. Sent router log files to the FBI cyber crime page but nothing was ever done or addressed. I'm sure the majority of these attacks originate from the communist reds."
and yet, when checking into traffic origin of those attacks, a majority will be US traffic due to lax security from the US of A. Would still love to see the data to back up your "I'm sure the majority" claim.
jacklim
-
1 day ago
Amazing Post
ZdejPoham
-
1 day ago
... 10.6 billion packets per second (Bpps)...
Normal billion (10^12) or american billion (10^9)? And how many school buses would that be?
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
CISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploit
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, Wi-Fi enhancements
Sponsor Posts
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT