GIS, geospatial solutions for health, Geographic Information System, Storymap, GIS Center
Skip to main content
World Health Organization
Global
Regions
World Health Organization
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
WHO GIS Centre for Health
Timely and reliable decisions save lives
Home/
Data/
GIS Centre for health
Geospatial technology in the form of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) enables spatial representation of data to support better public health planning and decision-making. The global health and medical applications of GIS are numerous and many countries currently lack the benefits of GIS to strengthen their health information system. By connecting maps, apps, data and people the WHO GIS Centre is dedicated to support countries and partners to make informed public health decisions faster and to extend the reach of geospatial information across the organization. By continuing to expand its collaboration with partners the WHO GIS Centre aims at bridging inequalities within and across countries.Geospatial data and techniques are also an effective tool to monitor progress and provide a strong basis for policy making to achieve the SDGs and deliver the GPW 13 Triple Billion targets.
Story maps
See all
Features
Geospatialanalytics
Supporting geospatial data and analytics to improve compliance and stewardship with WHO Standard Operating Procedures for maps and Web GIS applications.
Capacitybuilding
By increasing the efficient use of GIS by Member States and partners and strengthening country data, regional data, analytics and health information systems' capacity to meet demands.
Partnerships andcollaboration
By augmenting timely assistance and expertise through a network of UN agencies and trusted geospatial partners.
Geospatialculture
By promoting a geospatial culture and community of practice; providing training and technical expertise in innovative technology.
GISinfrastructure
The
GIS infrastructure is based on ArcGIS Enterprise (ArcGIS Web Adaptor, Portal
for ArcGIS, ArcGIS Server and ArcGIS Data Store). The Esri
Enterprise Agreement with WHO renders licenses available at all three levels of
the organization.  Additionally, Esri provides grants to Ministries of Health from low
resource countries for ease of collaboration.
Rationale
Dating back to 1854, the seminal work of John Snow illustrates the power of mapping and geographic systems to respond to the cholera outbreak. WHO has an established history of using GIS and mapping to analyze spatial distribution and risk factor patterns, to identify, prevent and control diseases, and to improve the impact of public health interventions. Using GIS to intersect between spatial representation and public health planning enables timely and reliable decisions that can save many lives.To name a few, 15 out of 17 health-related SDGs rely on GIS, for example by monitoring air, water quality and sanitation, neglected tropical diseases (malaria, guinea worm, snake bites), Polio, as well as health emergencies.Many countries currently lack the benefits of GIS to strengthen their health information systems. Expanding its collaboration with partners, the WHO GIS Centre for health aims to make an immediate and lasting
public impact. Geospatial solutions for health include advancing the use of GIS in earth observation and remote sensing data for health-related SDGs. It also provides core capacity building
for governments, WHO country offices, and technical departments.There is significant scope for every country to leverage the full benefits of GIS. Specific services include: Supporting geospatial data and analytics to improve compliance and stewardship with WHO Standard Operating Procedures for maps and Web GIS applications; Increasing the efficient use of GIS by the Member States and partners. Strengthening country data, regional data, analytics, and making the health information system more robust; Augmenting timely assistance and expertise through a network of UN agencies and trusted geospatial partners;  Promoting a GIS community of practice through providing training and technical expertise in innovative technology.
Services offered to countries and partners
GIS software hub WHO hosts GIS software (ArcGIS and QGIS) for use by countries, partners and WHO staff. In 2017, WHO signed an Esri Enterprise Agreement to make the ArcGIS software available to WHO staff and provides access to QGIS to all countries and partners. WHO also facilitates the Esri Health and Human Services grant program to provide free software licenses for 2 years to 75 low-and middle-income countries.
Satellite imagery supportMany of the hardest-to-reach populations live in rural areas lacking detailed maps, thus challenging the health care worker outreach. In this case, satellite imagery becomes a critical tool to rapidly discover remote areas often undetected
on the ground. The UN Space Charter provides WHO with unique access to satellite imagery, and WHO supports the processing and delivery of this imagery to countries.
Mobile field data collection toolsMobile GIS tools collect location data and improve data quality through rules and semantic integrity.WHO provides tools ( ODK, Kobo and ArcGIS Survey123) and technical assistance to countries and partners.
Map standards and servicesMaps must be produced in compliance with legal standards. WHO provides support to countries and partners with tailored cartographic maps required for fieldwork, analytics, reports and publications in print and digital formats.
Geolocated Health Facilities Data initiativeMeasuring the availability and the physical access to health services is a prerequisite to understand the performance of health systems and their ability to deliver impact. Up-to-date geospatial databases can
maximize the strategic and accurate location of health facilities, their accessibility to the population in need, and the supply chain of essential services and medicines.Read more
Geospatial datasetsPopulation datasets in relation to geographic boundaries and health facilities are essential for geospatial analytics. For example, this data helps us understand who is living where, various population densities, the number of people in
various age groups, urban/rural settings, economic stratification, and other social and demographic characteristics. WHO supports countries and partners in collating the baseline population.
Volunteered geographic informationVolunteered geographic information is information collected by users roving the surface of the Earth. Often unnoticed, this contribution consists of content in various geographic locations around the world. Mapathons are crowd-sourced
activities to identify built-up structures to support public health responses.
Training and capacity buildingTraining in GIS and remote sensing software is offered to strengthen country and partner capacity. This enables efficient field data collection using GIS apps, storing, management, analysis, reporting and the use of geospatial data.
Publications
BLUEPRINT Geospatial Landscape of the United Nations System
The global geospatial community can play a critical role in leveraging our understanding of mega-trends and global phenomena through innovative technology, data and analysis.
Read More
Improving Immunisation Coverage and Equity through the Effective Use of Geospatial
Technologies and Data
The effective use of geospatial technologies, including geographic information systems (GIS), to collect, manage, analyse, model and visualise geographic data has the potential to improve data-driven decision-making for immunisation programme delivery.
Read More
Leveraging Geospatial Technologies and Data to Strengthen Immunisation Programmes
Leveraging geospatial technologies and data to strengthen immunisation programmes: rapid guidance for investment planning is the result of a team effort with collaborators and technical contributors, as listed below.
Read More
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO