Best CBD Oil For Pain Of 2025 – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
Best of
3.0
Our ratings take into account the card’s rewards, fees, rates along with the card’s category. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.
Why we picked it
Read More
SCROLL TO SITE
SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
CBD
Best CBD Oil For Pain Of 2025
Audited & Verified: Mar 18, 2024, 11:06am
Jennifer Wirth
Contributor
Jennifer Wirth is a professional writer and SEO specialist with a focus on health, wellness, parenting and beauty. She holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and is passionate about providing accurate and engaging content that’s backed by...
See Full Bio
Jennifer Wirth
Contributor
Jennifer Wirth is a professional writer and SEO specialist with a focus on health, wellness, parenting and beauty. She holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and is passionate about providing accurate and engaging content that’s backed by...
See Full Bio
Written By
Jennifer Wirth
Jennifer Wirth
Contributor
Jennifer Wirth is a professional writer and SEO specialist with a focus on health, wellness, parenting and beauty. She holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and is passionate about providing accurate and engaging content that’s backed by...
See Full Bio
Jennifer Wirth
Contributor
Jennifer Wirth is a professional writer and SEO specialist with a focus on health, wellness, parenting and beauty. She holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and is passionate about providing accurate and engaging content that’s backed by...
See Full Bio
Contributor
Gerry McNally, Ph.D.
Consumer Healthcare / OTC Pharmaceuticals / Dietary Supplements
Gerry McNally is the vice president of research and development at NextEvo Naturals and a seasoned consumer health care R&D executive with a track record of leading the conception, development and commercialization of new products in dynamic market-d...
See Full Bio
Gerry McNally, Ph.D.
Consumer Healthcare / OTC Pharmaceuticals / Dietary Supplements
Gerry McNally is the vice president of research and development at NextEvo Naturals and a seasoned consumer health care R&D executive with a track record of leading the conception, development and commercialization of new products in dynamic market-d...
See Full Bio
Gerry McNally, Ph.D.
Gerry McNally, Ph.D.
Consumer Healthcare / OTC Pharmaceuticals / Dietary Supplements
Gerry McNally is the vice president of research and development at NextEvo Naturals and a seasoned consumer health care R&D executive with a track record of leading the conception, development and commercialization of new products in dynamic market-d...
See Full Bio
Gerry McNally, Ph.D.
Consumer Healthcare / OTC Pharmaceuticals / Dietary Supplements
Gerry McNally is the vice president of research and development at NextEvo Naturals and a seasoned consumer health care R&D executive with a track record of leading the conception, development and commercialization of new products in dynamic market-d...
See Full Bio
Medically Reviewed
|
Consumer Healthcare / OTC Pharmaceuticals / Diet...
& 1 other
Audited & Verified: Mar 18, 2024, 11:06am
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Cannabidiol (CBD), one of the two main cannabinoids found in the cannabis plant, is increasingly popular for its wide range of potential health benefits and lack of intoxicatingly psychoactive effects. In fact, many people turn to CBD oil as a natural pain relief aid, according to a Forbes Health survey of 2,000 U.S. adults conducted by OnePoll[1]CBD Statistics, Data and Use (2023). Forbes Health. Accessed 11/16/2023. . But with so many CBD oils on the market, it can be difficult to know which one is right for you.
To choose the best CBD oils for pain, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on over 100 full-spectrum CBD oil products made from plants grown in the U.S. All have a certificate of analysis (COA), are third-party tested by ISO 17025-compliant laboratories, pass tests for pesticides, heavy metals and molds, and contain no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight. From price to potency, see which CBD oil products stand out as our top picks for potential pain relief.
Note: Prices listed are sourced from the manufacturers and are accurate as of the publication date.
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about CBD that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our CBD methodology for the rankings below.
70+ CBD brands considered
150+ CBD oil products evaluated
20 metrics analyzed
Show More
Find The Best CBD Products
Best CBD Oil
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD for Anxiety
Best CBD for Pain
Best CBD for Sleep
Best CBD Creams
CBD Benefits
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services. Enjoy 25% Off Your Order 	Using Code FORBES25	Aspen Green – Relief Organic Full Spectrum CBD OilPhysician Formulated and USDA Certified OrganicFormulated with full-spectrum CBDHelps alleviate aches, pain and discomfort while promoting repair and recoveryBlended with wellness-boosting botanicals to help promote mobility and keep you moving wellFree from toxins, formaldehydes, phthalates, parabens, and sulfates	Shop Now	On Aspen Green's Website
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
5 Best CBD Oils for Pain of 2025
Aspen Green Relief Organic Full Spectrum CBD Oil
Canna River Full Spectrum CBD Classic Tincture (3,000 milligrams)
Batch CBD Gold Reserve Blend
Five CBD Full Spectrum CBD + THC Oil
Lazarus Naturals Full Spectrum, High Potency CBD Oil Tincture
Methodology: How We Picked the Best CBD Oils for Pain
What Does Research Say About CBD for Pain?
Pros and Cons of Using CBD Oil for Pain Management
How to Use CBD Oil for Pain
Safety and Side Effects of CBD Oil
How to Choose the Best CBD Oil for Pain
Summary: Best CBD Oil For Pain in 2025
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
5 Best CBD Oils for Pain of 2025
Aspen Green Relief Organic Full Spectrum CBD Oil
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $149.99133 milligrams of full-spectrum CBD per 1-milliliter serving30 milliliters per container (30 servings)Cost is equivalent to $5 per servingFlavors available: Cherry	Shop Now	On Aspen Green's Website Why We Picked ItAlthough it’s the most expensive CBD oil on our list, Aspen Green Relief Organic Full Spectrum CBD Oil provides 133 milligrams of CBD and 2.5 milligrams of THC per 1-milliliter serving, making it more potent than many competing CBD oils. Additional ingredients include organic cherry flavor, as well as an assortment of botanical ingredients—organic turmeric extract, organic ginger extract, organic chamomile extract, organic black cumin seed extract, organic rosemary extract and organic black pepper essential oil—which have wellness-enhancing properties, according to the company.	Pros & ConsCertified USDA organicVegan-friendly, gluten-free and non-GMOIncludes comprehensive dosing guideCompany accepts returns within 60 days of purchaseFDA-registered facilityCertified toxin-free, according to the companyMore expensive than many CBD oils on the marketOnly one flavor available2.5 milligrams of THC per serving, which may not be ideal for those searching for a THC-free product133 milligrams of CBD per serving may be a large dose for beginners	Editor’s Take“I like that this CBD oil includes chamomile, which contains anti-inflammatory properties and may help to alleviate stomach cramps and relax one’s muscles. I also appreciate that the company offers discounts when purchasing multiple products, free shipping for orders over $74 and a 60-day return policy. However, the 133 milligrams of CBD per serving is quite high and may not be suitable for those who are new to using CBD products.” — Maddie Lloyd, Deputy Editor, Forbes Health
Canna River Full Spectrum CBD Classic Tincture (3,000 milligrams)
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $40100 milligrams of full-spectrum CBD per 1-milliliter serving30 milliliters per container (30 servings)Cost is equivalent to $1.33 per servingFlavors available: Natural, lemon raspberry, mango peach, sweet mint	Shop Now	On Canna River's Website Why We Picked ItCanna River Full Spectrum CBD Classic Tincture is a potent yet affordable option for those looking for a high-quality CBD oil. It’s available in four flavors, including natural, lemon raspberry, mango peach and sweet mint, providing consumers with more options than many other CBD oils on the market. Flavor aside, it contains only two all-natural ingredients: medium chain triglyceride (MCT) oil and full-spectrum hemp distillate.	Pros & ConsHigh potency per serving while remaining affordableHigher potency options (6,000 milligrams and 12,000 milligrams) are still less expensive than competing productsCruelty-free, gluten-free and non-GMOCanna River plants one tree for every purchase, according to the companyOffers 30% discounts for veterans and teachersFree shipping on all ordersNot USDA-certified organic15-milliliter bottle size may not last a full month if users are following the company’s recommended daily serving sizeLemon raspberry, mango peach and sweet mint flavors contain sucralose, which is an artificial sweetenerFree shipping is not available for customers in Alaska or Hawaii	Editor’s Take“I love that this CBD oil has a simple ingredient list and comes at an affordable price point. What’s more, I love the flavor variety this company offers, which is reflected in the positive customer reviews praising the product’s pleasant taste. I also appreciate that the product’s certificate of analysis (COA) is easy to find on the product page. However, I don’t love that the lemon raspberry, mango peach and sweet mint flavors contain artificial flavors and sweeteners.” — Maddie Lloyd, Deputy Editor, Forbes Health
Batch CBD Gold Reserve Blend
4.1
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $149.9967 milligrams of full-spectrum CBD per 1-milliliter serving30 milliliters per container (30 servings)Cost is equivalent to $2.50 per servingFlavors available: Slightly citrus	Shop Now	On BATCH's Website Why We Picked ItBatch CBD Gold Reserve is Batch’s most potent CBD oil, with 4,000 milligrams of CBD, 2,000 milligrams of cannabigerol (CBN) and a proprietary “clarity” terpene blend of limonene, caryophyllene and pinene in each 30-milliliter bottle. With such a high concentration of cannabinoids, it’s likely best suited for consumers who have experience using CBD products.A helpful dosing guide on the product website notes how much CBD and CBG a user ingests at each demarcation line on the product dropper, allowing individuals to better control how much they consume. Although only available in one flavor, the company describes it as a mild taste with a “slightly citrus flavor.”	Pros & ConsMade from hemp that the company claims is 100% organic and grown on the company’s farm in WisconsinGluten-free, vegan-friendly and non-GMOFast shipping within 24 business hours, according to the company30-day “happiness guarantee,” which allows users to return a product for free within 30 days of the purchase date25% discount available for subscribe and save purchasesFree shipping available on all orders $25 and overMore expensive than many competing CBD oilsUnclear whether product is USDA certified organicOnly one potency availableOrders are not shipped on weekends or holidays	Editor’s Take“I love that this CBD oil from Batch includes ingredients like orange and lemon oils to provide a natural citrus flavor. Additionally, I like that this product contains CBG oil, which may offer antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anxiety-reducing effects. I do find the $149.99 price point to be a bit high, but I appreciate the company’s 30-day ‘happiness guarantee’ to ensure user satisfaction.” — Maddie Lloyd, Deputy Editor, Forbes Health
Five CBD Full Spectrum CBD + THC Oil
4.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $49.9950 milligrams of full-spectrum CBD per 1-milliliter serving30 milliliters per container (30 servings)Cost is equivalent to $1.67 per servingFlavors available: Citrus, mint chocolate	Shop Now	On Five's Website Why We Picked ItFive CBD Full Spectrum CBD and THC Oil provides 1,500 milligrams of CBD and 60 milligrams of THC in a 30-milliliter bottle, which doesn’t exceed 0.3% by dry weight (and is therefore accessible in all states). However, the company is upfront that the amount of cannabinoids may vary from what’s noted on the label, which is approximated based on the most recent certificate of analysis (COA). The company uses natural extracts to produce two flavor options: citrus and mint chocolate.	Pros & ConsMore cost effective than many competing CBD oilsVegan-friendly, non-GMO and all naturalCOA easily available on company’s websiteOffers a 30-day risk-free trial for new customersFree shipping on all subscribe and save orders and for orders $75 and overRewards program availableNot USDA-certified organicLimited flavor options may not appeal to all customers50 milligrams of CBD per dose may be high for beginnersFull ingredients list not available on company website	Editor’s Take“I appreciate that Five offers dosing guidelines and up-to-date COAs for its Full Spectrum CBD + THC Oil directly on the product page. What’s more, I like that the company offers a quiz on its website to help a user determine which CBD product may best fit their needs based on factors like desired effects and personal experience using CBD—with a 25% discount reward. I also like that Five offers a rewards program where users can cash in 100 points for a $10 discount.” — Maddie Lloyd, Deputy Editor, Forbes Health
Lazarus Naturals Full Spectrum, High Potency CBD Oil Tincture
3.9
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $4050 milligrams of full-spectrum CBD per 1-milliliter serving30 milliliters per container (30 servings)Cost is equivalent to $1.33 per servingFlavors available: Classic, chocolate mint, strawberry lemonade	Shop Now	On CBD.co Why We Picked ItLazarus Naturals Full Spectrum, High Potency CBD Oil Tincture is made using hemp grown on the company’s own farms. The CBD oil is extracted via an ethanol process and diluted with fractionated coconut oil to ensure accurate CBD potency. Each tincture is then third-party tested for pesticides, heavy metals and potency, and the results are available directly on the company website. The product is available in three flavors: classic, chocolate mint and strawberry lemonade.	Pros & ConsMore cost effective than many competing CBD oilsThree clean ingredients: Organic hempseed oil, coconut MCT oil and hemp extractCertified kosher and USDA-certified organic90-day “stress-free guarantee,” which allows users to return products for free within 90 days of purchaseFree shipping on all orders over $50Offers up to 60% discounts for veterans, people on long-term disability and those with low incomesNot be suitable for people with tree nut allergies (coconut)May not be suitable for people who have been advised against eating grapefruitSome negative reviews report unpleasant taste50 milligrams of CBD per dose may be high for beginners	Our Experience“Although I was somewhat disappointed with my Lazarus Naturals CBD oil experience, I think it was largely due to the fact that I had no idea what to expect. I had never tried CBD oil before, so I assumed I would feel a noticeable difference right away. However, this product seemed to have more of a cumulative effect for me, which could be frustrating if your body reacts similarly.” — Dana Meltzer Zepeda, Forbes Health writer. Read her full review of Lazarus Naturals CBD Oil here.
Methodology: How We Picked the Best CBD Oils for Pain
To determine the best CBD oils for pain, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on over 100 full-spectrum CBD oil products that:
Are made from plants grown in the U.S.
Have a readily available certificate of analysis (COA)
Are third-party tested by ISO 17025-compliant laboratories
Pass all tests for pesticides, heavy metals and molds
Contain no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight.
We then ranked the CBD oil based on price, potency and whether their ingredients are all-natural, organic, gluten-free and/or vegan-friendly.
Serving sizes vary based on the product and its nutritional label. We provided per-serving pricing and full product pricing to help you determine the best daily value and bang for your buck.
Note that all products listed may contain THC that could lead to a positive result on a drug test.
Read more about our CBD review methodology.
Experience the transformative benefits of Relief Organic CBD Oil Full Spectrum
This premium blend harnesses the full spectrum of organic CBD, derived from sustainably sourced hemp, ensuring purity and potency. Ideal for promoting relaxation, alleviating stress, and restoring balance, it's trusted by users for its therapeutic efficacy and quality.
Shop Now
On Aspen Green's Website
What Does Research Say About CBD for Pain?
Limited research explores the efficacy of CBD for pain, explains Daniele Piomelli, Ph.D., the director of the Institute for the Study of Cannabis and a professor in the Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology in the School of Medicine at the University of California, Irvine.
However, some research shows promising results. One 2021 study in the Journal of Cannabis Research examined the effects of CBD on pain following the administration of CBD oil containing 20 to 25 milligrams of CBD and 0.5 to 1 milligram of THC per milliliter. Researchers found participants experiencing moderate to severe pain noticed an improvement in their pain symptoms after using the CBD-THC tincture. Participants with mild pain, on the other hand, didn’t experience these same improvements.
This research is limited in that it relies on a combination of CBD and THC rather than studying CBD exclusively. With that said, these results support why many experts recommend a full-spectrum CBD product (which includes trace amounts of THC) over a broad-spectrum CBD or CBD isolate product when attempting to address pain specifically[2]Rapin L, Gamaoun R, El Hage C, et al. Cannabidiol use and effectiveness: real-world evidence from a Canadian medical cannabis clinic. Journal of Cannabis Research. 2021;3(1):19. .
CBD Type
Amount of THC
Potential Benefits
Full-spectrum CBD
Maximum 0.3% by dry weight
• Reduced anxiety and depression
• Improved sleep
• Pain alleviation
• Reduced inflammation
• Nausea and vomiting relief
• Epilepsy management
Broad-spectrum CBD
None
• Reduced social anxiety
• Improved sleep
• Reduced pain
• Reduced need for pain management medications
CBD isolate
None
• Reduced inflammation
• Reduced nausea and vomiting
• Muscle relaxation
• Improved anxiety symptoms
• Decreased PTSD symptoms
See More See Less
Additional research is needed to fully understand the effectiveness of CBD for pain relief.
Pros and Cons of Using CBD Oil for Pain Management
Before reaching for CBD oil in an effort to manage your pain symptoms, it’s important to understand the potential benefits and drawbacks associated with consuming CBD oil for pain management.
Benefits of Using CBD Oil for Pain Management
There are several potential benefits associated with the use of CBD oil for pain management.
First, CBD can serve as an alternative to conventional pain medications, such as opioids, which can be particularly beneficial for those who wish to avoid potential adverse side effects linked to these medications. On that note, unlike certain pain medications like opioids, CBD is considered to have a lower risk of dependency. Finally, CBD oil is generally well tolerated with minimal side effects.
While these benefits are promising, more extensive research is needed to explore the therapeutic potential of CBD for pain management. Always consult with a health care provider before starting or changing your pain management regimen.
Downsides of Using CBD Oil for Pain Management
While CBD oil offers potential benefits for pain management, it’s crucial to consider its potential drawbacks as well.
Current scientific research on the efficacy and safety of CBD oil for pain management for any period of time is still limited and largely inconclusive. What’s more, the CBD market lacks strict regulation, leading to inconsistency and a lack of transparency regarding product quality. For instance, some products may contain less CBD than advertised at best or unwanted additives and contaminants at worst.
Although generally well-tolerated, CBD can still cause side effects in some individuals, including decreased alertness, irritability or agitation, decreased appetite or gastrointestinal issues like diarrhea. Furthermore, CBD could interact with alcohol or medications, including prescription and over-the-counter drugs. Additional research is needed to explore these possible interactions to provide the proper warnings to at-risk populations.
Before taking CBD oil, weigh the potential risks and benefits, and consider your personal health situation and treatment objectives, recommends Dr. Piomelli.
CBD Oil for Pain Pros
CBD Oil for Pain Cons
Alternative to traditional pain medication
Scientific research on efficacy and safety is limited and inconclusive
Lower risk of dependency
Lacks strict regulation
Well-tolerated in healthy individuals
May interact with alcohol or medications
Minimal side effects
May cause decreased alertness, irritability, decreased appetite or diarrhea
See More See Less
How to Use CBD Oil for Pain
When starting a CBD oil regimen, it’s important to find the correct dose for your body and specific needs. This amount varies from person to person and depends on the CBD product itself, as different CBD oils vary in both formula and potency, explains Paula Williams, M.D., a physician at Apollo Cannabis Clinic in Canada.
“Start low and go slow,” advises Dr. Williams, who recommends starting with the lowest dose based on the product label and your health care provider’s recommendations. “From there, the dose can be increased every few days until [you] start to notice relief,” she says.
She adds that it may be helpful to take CBD oil one to two hours before you expect to experience pain or inflammation, such as in the morning or before bed. You can use a log or tracker to note when your pain flares tend to occur.
Safety and Side Effects of CBD Oil
Research pertaining to the long-term safety and effects of CBD use is limited. With the exception of Epidiolex, a prescription medication used to help people with Dravet syndrome or Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, CBD isn’t approved by the Food and Drug Administration. As a result, beyond the legality of hemp established by the 2018 Farm Bill, there aren’t any federal standards regarding the content, potency or purity of CBD products sold in the U.S., which can lead to variability in products compared to their labels, as well as the potential for undisclosed contaminants in CBD products.
Additionally, while CBD is generally well tolerated, it’s not without its potential side effects, which can include:
Decreased alertness
Changes in mood, such as irritability and agitation
Decreased appetite
Gastrointestinal issues, such as diarrhea
Pregnant and breastfeeding women are advised against using CBD oil due to the lack of research regarding the long-term effects on fetuses and infants. Drug interactions can also pose a large risk to those who are taking other medications, such as blood thinners, as it can alter the effectiveness and/or increase the side effects of other medications, says Dr. Piomelli, who recommends anyone considering CBD to consult with their health care provider.
How to Choose the Best CBD Oil for Pain
“There are myriad CBD producers all who claim to be the best,” explains Dr. Piomelli, adding that it’s up to individual consumers to do their research before purchasing any CBD product. He recommends purchasing from a reputable CBD oil company that completes third-party laboratory testing on its products and making sure the test results are available to consumers via COAs. He also recommends researching consumer reports, as they can provide insight into other consumers’ experiences with various CBD brands and their products.
Pro Tip Reputable CBD brands readily provide Certificates of Analysis (COAs) for each individual product they sell. QR codes on product packaging and/or links on manufacturer websites allow consumers to view these third-party laboratory tests that evaluate CBD products for accurate potency and safety considerations, such as heavy metal and pesticide content.
Summary: Best CBD Oil For Pain in 2025
Aspen Green Relief Organic Full Spectrum CBD Oil
5.0
Shop NowOn Aspen Green's Website
Canna River Full Spectrum CBD Classic Tincture (3,000 milligrams)
5.0
Shop NowOn Canna River's Website
Batch CBD Gold Reserve Blend
4.1
Shop NowOn BATCH's Website
Five CBD Full Spectrum CBD + THC Oil
4.0
Shop NowOn Five's Website
Lazarus Naturals Full Spectrum, High Potency CBD Oil Tincture
3.9
Shop NowOn CBD.co
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATINGS
LEARN MORE
Aspen Green Relief Organic Full Spectrum CBD Oil
5.0
Shop NowOn Aspen Green's Website
Canna River Full Spectrum CBD Classic Tincture (3,000 milligrams)
5.0
Shop NowOn Canna River's Website
Batch CBD Gold Reserve Blend
4.1
Shop NowOn BATCH's Website
Five CBD Full Spectrum CBD + THC Oil
4.0
Shop NowOn Five's Website
Lazarus Naturals Full Spectrum, High Potency CBD Oil Tincture
3.9
Shop NowOn CBD.co
See More See Less
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Which form of CBD is best for pain?
Full-spectrum CBD oil, which typically contains trace amounts of THC and range of other naturally-occurring cannabinoids and terpenes in hemp and cannabis plants, is the most effective for pain management, says Dr. Williams, relating the connection to the body’s endocannabinoid system and how the compounds work more effectively when ingested together, a concept known as the entourage effect.
Is CBD oil good for pain?
Some research suggests CBD oil can be an effective treatment option for pain without many of the risks and side effects associated with conventional pain medications, such as opioids. However, additional research is needed to confirm these findings.
How much CBD is good for pain relief?
The amount of CBD needed for pain relief varies depending on the person and the potency of the CBD product. Experts, including Dr. Williams, recommend starting with a low dose and increasing slowly to find the ideal dose for you and your specific pain management needs.
Sources
Footnotes
CBD Statistics, Data and Use (2023). Forbes Health. Accessed 11/16/2023.
Rapin L, Gamaoun R, El Hage C, et al.
Cannabidiol use and effectiveness: real-world evidence from a Canadian medical cannabis clinic. Journal of Cannabis Research. 2021;3(1):19.
References
Cannabidiol (CBD) - Potential Harms, Side Effects, and Unknowns.
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Accessed 11/16/2023.
Johnson E, Kilgore M, Babalonis S.
Label accuracy of unregulated cannabidiol (CBD) products: measured concentration vs. label claim.
Journal of Cannabis Research. 2022;4(1):28.
Abu-Sawwa R, Stehling C.
Epidiolex (Cannabidiol) Primer: Frequently Asked Questions for Patients and Caregivers.
The Journal of Pediatric Pharmacology and Therapeutics. 2020;25(1):75–77.
Villanueva MRB, Joshaghani N, Villa N, et al.
Efficacy, Safety, and Regulation of Cannabidiol on Chronic Pain: A Systematic Review.
Cureus. 2022;14(7):e26913.
German chamomile.
Mount Sinai. Accessed 3/12/2024.
Sah A, Naseef PP, Kuruniyan MS, et al.
A Comprehensive Study of Therapeutic Applications of Chamomile.
Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2022;15(10):1284.
Calapai F, Cardia L, Esposito E, et al.
Pharmacological Aspects and Biological Effects of Cannabigerol and Its Synthetic Derivatives.
Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2022;2022:3336516.
Next Up In CBD
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD Oils
Best CBD Creams
Best CBD Products For Sleep
Best CBD Products For Anxiety & Stress
Best CBD Products For Pain Management
Aspen Green CBD Review
Cornbread Hemp CBD Review
Lazarus Naturals CBD Review
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Jennifer Wirth
Contributor
Jennifer Wirth is a professional writer and SEO specialist with a focus on health, wellness, parenting and beauty. She holds a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering and is passionate about providing accurate and engaging content that’s backed by scientific research. When Wirth isn’t writing, she enjoys spending time with her husband and three young children.
Gerry McNally, Ph.D.
Consumer Healthcare / OTC Pharmaceuticals / Dietary Supplements
Gerry McNally is the vice president of research and development at NextEvo Naturals and a seasoned consumer health care R&D executive with a track record of leading the conception, development and commercialization of new products in dynamic market-driven environments. He has more than 25 years of experience as an R&D leader in the consumer health care industry, working previously for McNeil Consumer Healthcare and Johnson & Johnson. McNally’s creative talent, over-the-counter industry knowledge and consumer understanding are key to his success in bringing new products and technologies to the consumer health care market. His background in the regulated pharmaceutical industry combined with his experience in consumer health care and patient-centric drug development provides a unique perspective.
Find The Best CBD Products
Best CBD Oil
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD for Anxiety
Best CBD for Pain
Best CBD for Sleep
Best CBD Creams
CBD Benefits
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise