Why It's Better to Use Canned Pumpkin (and Not the Fresh Stuff)
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Pumpkin Bread
The Best Canned Pumpkin for Fall Baking and Beyond
Autumn Pumpkin Chili
Pumpkin Pie
Fresh Pumpkin Pie
Our Best Pumpkin Recipes
20 Easy Pumpkin Recipes That Start with Canned Pumpkin
34 Incredibly Cozy Canned Pumpkin Recipes
Pumpkin Apple Pie
Is Canned Pumpkin or Fresh Better for Pies?
15 Fresh Pumpkin Recipes to Make This Fall
29 Healthy Pumpkin Recipes to Make This Fall
Fresh Pumpkin Soup
55 Canned Pumpkin Recipes for Fall
What Can You Do with Leftover Pumpkin Puree?
Does Pumpkin Pie Need to Be Refrigerated?
3 Easy Substitutions for Canned Pumpkin
14 Baked Pumpkin Recipes to Satisfy Your Savory Fall Cravings
History Lesson: Why Do We Carve Pumpkins?
Pumpkin Puree
Taste of Home
Home
Recipes
Ingredients
Vegetables
Pumpkins
Why It’s Better to Use Canned Pumpkin for Fall Baking
Taste of Home
By
Emma B. Kumer and Lisa A. Kaminski
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Feb. 23, 2024
Save
Saved
Saving
You might think that fresh is always best, but for fall baking, canned pumpkin is king. Find out why our Test Kitchen prefers a can over any pumpkin patch pick.
When it comes to cooking a fantastic meal, we’ve always heard that fresh is better. There’s no denying farmers market strawberries or tomatoes just off the vine add incredible flavor to a dish. However, there’s one exception to this rule: cooking with pumpkin.
Even professional cooks testify that canned pumpkin is superior to fresh puree for cooking. But why is that, exactly? To get to the bottom of this puzzling baking best practice, we asked our Test Kitchen experts to weigh in.
First, Is Canned Pumpkin Actually Pumpkin?
Just like the predictable release of PSLs and new Halloween candy, the annual debate about canned pumpkin always emerges. Some folks insist that canned pumpkin is actually some sort of butternut squash and not the real deal (though you can make a delicious pie with butternut squash).
You can squash this debate easily: Check the label. The ingredient list on the most popular brands of canned pumpkin is short and sweet: pumpkin!
So, Why Used Canned Pumpkin Instead of Fresh?
TASTE OF HOME
“Using fresh pumpkin sounds appealing until you try it once,” says Maggie Knoebel in our Test Kitchen. This might sound harsh, but hear Maggie out!
Canned Pumpkin Saves Time and Effort
“Making pumpkin puree is time-consuming,” says Maggie.
Making a batch of pumpkin puree from scratch can take an hour or more. You have to clean the pumpkin, remove the seeds (don’t toss ’em—make roasted pumpkin seeds instead), roast or steam the squash, puree it, strain it and let it all cool. That’s a lot of work and time! Get to know if you can eat pumpkin seed shells.
With a can of pumpkin, you just have to pop open the top. It makes these quick and easy pumpkin recipes so simple.
Canned Pumpkin Delivers Consistent Results
“Homemade pumpkin puree is consistently inconsistent,” says Catherine Ward in the Test Kitchen. That’s because the amount of water in each pumpkin varies. That means your homemade puree can either yield a perfectly lush pumpkin pie from scratch or one that’s unpleasant and watery.
Because canned pumpkin has the same texture can after can, “you’ll get a consistent result with your recipes every time,” explains Maggie.
Canned Just Tastes Better
When it comes down to pies made with fresh pumpkin versus canned pumpkin, our editors preferred the canned version.
Why? Our pros said that the pie made with canned pumpkin was more flavorful with a perfectly silky texture. Canned pumpkin also tends to have a more vibrant color, which makes all sorts of recipes, including pumpkin bread, look all the more appetizing.
And if the standard can of Libby’s isn’t for you, Maggie says, “our recent Test Kitchen-Preferred pumpkin taste test showed me how many types of puree are out there.” Check out our Libby’s pumpkin pie recipe.
Canned Pumpkin Is Cost-Effective
Maggie explains that opting for canned pumpkin is often better for your baking budget.
A sugar pie pumpkin (that’s the kind you want to use for cooking—not your standard Jack-O-Lantern pumpkin) will often run you around $5 at the pumpkin patch. Depending on the size of the pumpkin, you may need multiple for the right amount of pumpkin puree for your recipe.
In contrast, a can of pumpkin puree costs about $2 and all the prep work is done for you.
Canned Pumpkin Is Readily Available
Lastly, canned pumpkin is readily available at most grocery stores year-round—perfect for when you get a craving for pumpkin muffins in mid-June. If that sounds like you, be sure to stock up on a few extra cans. Canned pumpkin has a long shelf life, much like these other baking staples.
If you can’t find pumpkin at your grocery store, you can try these canned pumpkin substitutes.
Canned Pumpkin FAQs
Taste of Home
Now that you know you should be adding a can or two of pumpkin to your shopping cart, get the answers to a few of your most pressing questions.
What are canned pumpkin ingredients? Check the label! You’ll find that pumpkin is the only ingredient listed. Pumpkin puree is made by steaming and pureeing squash so there are no added ingredients.
Is canned pumpkin cooked? Yes, it’s already been cooked via steaming. It’s safe to eat canned pumpkin straight from the can, but it’s infinitely better baked into a pan of pumpkin bars.
How long is canned pumpkin good for? Unopened, canned pumpkin will last until the expiration date printed on the can. Once opened, leftover pumpkin can be kept in the fridge for up to five days. Use it up with these recipes that call for a partial can.
ⓘ
Author
Emma B. Kumer
Emma has been an intern and freelancer for Taste of Home and a digital visual assistant for Reader’s Digest. She’s currently telling stories digitally at The Washington Post and filling her free time training for and running marathons, setting creative writing goals, birdwatching and spending time with friends.
Read More
Author
Lisa A. Kaminski
Lisa is a former Taste of Home editor. During her six years here, she researched and tested ingredients, kitchen gear and home products, and wrote articles to highlight the best of the best.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box