AnyLogic not releasing a specific quantity of resources when seized from a resource set - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
AnyLogic not releasing a specific quantity of resources when seized from a resource set
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
2 days ago
Viewed
37 times
1
I'm experiencing a strange behavior when releasing resources. I'm trying to model a classic example from Carrie (1992) where a worker has to load one of several loading stations. So I create a ResourcePool for the workers (static, capacity 1) and another pool for the stations (static, capacity 12).
The model logic is Seize (W+S), Delay, Release (W), Delay, Seize (W), Delay, Release (W+S).
The seize use a resource set seizeing the whole set at once (1 worker, 1 station), the release, releases a specified quantity of resources (1 worker). The second seize never seizes the worker because worker has never been released. Its utilization is always 100%.
If I set the first release to release specified resource (list of pools) the everything works as expected.
I've read the help and I can't find any hint on releasing one way or another have any implication (or I don't understand the help correctly).
If I just make a Seize, Delay, Release, Sink (with one seized resource) the simulation throw an exception saying that has 2 seized resources instead of one:
Agent being disposed possesses 2 unreleased resource units
I'm missing something really important or is there a bug? I'm using AnyLogic 8.9.4
anylogic
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 2 days ago
Jaume Figueras i JovéJaume Figueras i Jové
asked Sep 17 at 18:48
Jaume Figueras i JovéJaume Figueras i Jové
5344 bronze badges
3
may be a bug, check with [email protected] to make sure it isn't :)
Benjamin
–
Benjamin
2025-09-18 08:39:02 +00:00
Commented
2 days ago
can you show your seize block properties in the smaller example?
Felipe
–
Felipe
2025-09-18 08:45:40 +00:00
Commented
2 days ago
I Added the seize params,
Jaume Figueras i Jové
–
Jaume Figueras i Jové
2025-09-18 11:22:35 +00:00
Commented
2 days ago
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
2
I'm sorry to answer my own question. After contacting support and getting an answer, AnyLogic has a known bug in the Release block.
Hope they will solve it soon.
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered 2 days ago
Jaume Figueras i JovéJaume Figueras i Jové
5344 bronze badges
3 Comments
Add a comment
EJoshuaS - Stand with Ukraine EJoshuaS - Stand with Ukraine 2 days ago
Why be sorry about answering your own question? The fact that their support confirmed that it's a known bug is potentially valuable information for future readers (which is exactly what Stack Overflow is for). 2025-09-18T16:13:49.343Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
Benjamin Benjamin yesterday
thx for sharing the info :) 2025-09-19T06:50:14.143Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
Tatiana Gomzina Tatiana Gomzina yesterday
In the meantime, a good workaround is to re-order the resources in the "Seize" block so that the "worker" is listed first. After that, the "Release" block should work correctly. Your other method (using the "Specified resource (list of pools)" option) is also a perfectly valid way to handle it. 2025-09-19T14:01:26.42Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
Add a comment
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
anylogic
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Related
2
Anylogic: Release specific resource
0
how can i keep the resource name in the entity agent in anylogic?
0
Manually releasing a seized resource from an agent?
1
Anylogic: how to individually address to resources within a Resource Pool
0
Creating resources for ResourcePool with specific parameters throughout simulation Anylogic
1
Seized resources don't correspond to agent location in workflow
0
Anylogic - Getting Resource Pool from a seized Resource
0
AnyLogic Chat Call Center Model
Hot Network Questions
The unit normal field to an oriented manifold in Munkres “Analysis on Manifolds”
What does, "as having nothing" mean in 2 Corinthians 6:10?
Validity of assuming the integral of a vanishing integrand over an infinitely large surface is equal to zero
Buffering line vectors that only buffer along the length of the line in QGIS
Trilogy set on a very unusual human colony. According to the law, only a certain quota of scientists (perhaps 50) are allowed to live on the planet
Should you publish a new result as an appendum?
why is it impossible to find onto map S to its power set?
How does boss dialogue change if fought at max level?
Scifi story set in a spaceship around a weird star
Number of prime factors modulo residue classes
How to block an entire page with uBlock Origin?
How to completely disable Google Chrome page translate function?
git says Bad key types '+ssh-rsa,ssh-dss' when trying to do git fetch on my MacBook. How do I fix?
If a partition that has always been able to be mounted normally,suddenly cannot be mounted and enters Emergency Mode,what might be the reason?
What is the probe like structure next to the static port on this cessna 172?
What's that 90s short-story? A magazine guess-how-many-objects-fit contest, a computer calculation bug, and prize money delivered as gold
What was the first video game to feature a fake credits sequence?
Was it normal to refer to God as 'the Father' during the time of Jesus?
Making `apt-get` read answers from stdin on graphical Ubuntu
Is "allowed" a past participle or an adjective?
Interpretation of slope coefficient when a variable appears in multiple powers
Update docker service volume
Is there a way to name 1,4-dimethylcyclohexan-1-ol in a way that indicates the methyl groups must be cis?
Application of DCT and an interesting integral.
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211