[Updated] Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project — 'Intel will continue to have GPU product offerings' | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Tech Industry
Intel is not a top 10 chipmaker anymore, according to new CEO Lip-Bu Tan
CPUs
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon
CPUs
Intel promises to keep updating its game-boosting software despite recent delays
CPUs
Teams at Nvidia and Intel have been working in secret on jointly developed processors for a year
CPUs
Intel reportedly prepping supercharged Nova Lake-AX mobile chips for gaming
CPUs
Intel's Arrow Lake refresh doesn't have a new NPU, says tipster, lineup will only rely on clock speed bump
Desktops
AMD calls AI ‘underhyped’ at IFA Berlin
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia responds to reports that H20 is ending production
CPUs
Intel promises sweeping changes to combat stagnation with new foundry strategy, AI focus, and the return of Hyper-Threading
Semiconductors
Intel might axe the 18A process node for foundry customers, essentially leaving TSMC with no rival
GPUs
Nvidia H20 AI GPU inventory is limited
GPUs
Nvidia says its H100/H200 GPUs are not sold out despite CEO saying otherwise in earnings call
CPUs
Intel confirms Arrow Lake refresh set for 2026, Nova Lake later that year
GPUs
Intel Arc A750 prototype spotted with 16GB VRAM and 512-bit memory bus, seemingly made by Gunnir
PC Gaming
Nvidia teases imminent major GeForce Now announcement
Tech Industry
[Updated] Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project — 'Intel will continue to have GPU product offerings'
News
By
Bruno Ferreira
last updated
19 September 2025
A statement commitment doesn't mean much without action to support it.
Comments (14)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Intel)
09/19/2025 update: After publication, an Intel representative reached out with the following statement regarding GPU development: "While we’re not sharing specific roadmaps at this time, everything we discussed aligns with and complements Intel’s existing strategy. This collaboration with NVIDIA enables us to deliver additional custom solutions that accelerate AI workloads and broaden our reach across high-performance computing segments in client and data center.We remain committed to our GPU roadmap. We’ll be collaborating with NVIDIA to serve specific market segments, but we’re also continuing to execute on our own path."The original article follows below.
You may like
Intel is not a top 10 chipmaker anymore, according to new CEO Lip-Bu Tan
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon
Intel promises to keep updating its game-boosting software despite recent delays
All talk in town right now is all about the Intel-Nvidia partnership, and a question on many minds is whether that means Intel might be scrapping its plans for upcoming Arc graphics cards or iGPUs. The company is attempting to assuage those fears, as one of its spokespeople told PCWorld, “We’re not discussing specific roadmaps at this time, but the collaboration is complementary to Intel’s roadmap and Intel will continue to have GPU product offerings."Intel also reiterated that its collaboration with Nvidia is "complementary" to the company's extant roadmap. Both those statements seem clear at face value, but some might find it a little hard to believe, given everything that's happened with Intel in the past year, namely but not only the major cuts to its workforce and a refocusing on profitability. The wording of the statement is also curious, as the company stating it will still have GPUs doesn't clarify what type they will be, or who will design them.Last December, Intel's ex-CEO Pat Gelsinger left abruptly. Shortly after, former CEO of Products Michelle Holthaus stated that Intel remained committed to Arc. In March, Intel named Lip-Bu Tan as its new CEO, who issued more staff cuts and reportedly issued an order that any of Intel's new products have a 50% gross margin. Additionally, Holthaus was ousted recently, after a mere 10 months in charge of Products. The company offered no updates to its Arc roadmap in the meantime.All those events would be enough to question Arc's continued existence, but now the Nvidia partnership has added further concern, especially in light of Intel saying that it intends to use RTX chiplets in mobile and gaming devices, casting a pall over Arc iGPUs. Judging by the latest Steam hardware survey, Intel's share has remained fairly steady over the past couple of years, sitting at 7.9%. If RTX chiplets in mobile devices prove popular, they would certainly eat away at it.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Intel and Nvidia both claim their partnership won't affect existing roadmaps, but some in the enthusiast community fear that a $5 billion cash influx from Nvidia could come with pressure for Intel not to compete with RTX cards — assuming Nvidia is still fully focused on the gaming market, given how it now represents a small fraction of the company's business.We reviewed the Arc B580 in December and found it to have the best value in its price bracket despite some misgivings about its drivers. The $250 price point is hotly contested, and a high volume of sales in this bracket would certainly translate into additional market share for Intel, which has seen the size of its slice remain steady over the past couple of years. The existing Arc roadmap looks promising, but despite Intel's statement, many feel its future is under threat.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.
TOPICS
Intel
Intel Arc
Nvidia
See all comments (14)
Bruno FerreiraContributorBruno Ferreira is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. He has decades of experience with PC hardware and assorted sundries, alongside a career as a developer. He's obsessed with detail and has a tendency to ramble on the topics he loves. When not doing that, he's usually playing games, or at live music shows and festivals.
Read more
Intel is not a top 10 chipmaker anymore, according to new CEO Lip-Bu Tan
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon
Intel promises to keep updating its game-boosting software despite recent delays
Teams at Nvidia and Intel have been working in secret on jointly developed processors for a year
Intel reportedly prepping supercharged Nova Lake-AX mobile chips for gaming
Intel's Arrow Lake refresh doesn't have a new NPU, says tipster, lineup will only rely on clock speed bump
Latest in Tech Industry
OpenAI is reportedly poaching Apple talent to build its first consumer hardware device
$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks
Nvidia drops a cool $900 million on Enfabrica tech and hiring its CEO, report claims
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
xAI's new gas turbine facility gets halfway to Elon Musk's 1-gigawatt 'AI factory' goal
Microsoft announces 'world's most powerful' AI data center
Latest in News
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649
GPU sales skyrocketed 27% last quarter
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon
Asus teases new concept that boosts motherboard GPU slot power to 250W
AMD silently launches RX 7700 non-XT with 16 GB VRAM
GeForce RTX 50-series GPUs are finally selling at and below MSRP
14 Comments
Comment from the forums
atomicWAR
"Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project ."
I want so badly for this to be true but I have so little faith that it is with their joint move with Nvidia.
Reply
vanadiel007
Let's be honest: they are and never were in a position to challenge either Nvidia or AMD.
I don't see many purchase an Arc graphics card...
Reply
palladin9479
The B580 is a really solid entry level GPU, I hope they continue developing their drivers and the next generation product ends up being even better in that segment.
Reply
JarredWaltonGPU
Maybe this will be better than Kaby Lake G? LOL
Reply
Notton
If the Intel+Nvidia partnership remains on track, the earliest we are likely to see a desktop/mobile/handheld chip from them is 2028 with Hammer Lake.
Given Intel's track record, I'd expect 2029 at the earliest (high end SKU) and 2030 for a viable product (for us plebs). And Just because Nvidia joined, it doesn't mean we'll get to see something sooner. Maybe the GPU tile will be fine, but the CPU tile is a big question mark.
So, my guess, Arc dGPU will stick around until at least 2027, but we'll still see an Arc iGPU until 2030-ish. Whether or not they stop at Celestial remains to be seen, though I'd guess they will. There really isn't any incentive to go to D-series or E-series.
The main problem with Arc is the die size, as in they are colossal for the performance they offer.
Still interested to see how well B770 will perform. They're printing box art for it, apparently.
Reply
Penzi
“Last December, Intel's ex-CEO Pat Gelsinger left abruptly.” Ousted is indeed abruptly…
There is nothing in any way certain from Intel, but my hope is that the Arc series gets both a return of its mid-grade flagship (7 series) and a genuine leap in capabilities in the Celestial generation, which is when I expect to replace my 4070… I’d rather not support nVidia next time. Perhaps AMD will keep up the decent work that resulted in the 9070XT… but I’d still rather snag a C770 or whatever it’ll be called. With about a million caveats.
Reply
jlake3
atomicWAR said:"Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project ."
I want so badly for this to be true but I have so little faith that it is with their joint move with Nvidia.I see a lot of room for them to be very weasel-y with how that’s worded and how their products are branded. The Arc branding encompasses monolithic iGPUs, on-package tiles, desktop discrete, and datacenter GPGPU at this point, and Intel didn’t commit to any specific segments or products, only to the “Arc project”.
It feels like Arc could slump back into the same budget/low-power role as Intel HD while Intel technically “remains committed” to maintaining and developing an Arc product line.
Some of the news I’d seen about Celestial and Druid development contained some similar ambiguity, where people want to read statements about the architecture as statements about desktop discrete gaming, but Intel technically never makes that promise.
Reply
bit_user
It's nice to hear phrases like "committed to its existing strategy". However, when that strategy was already highly in doubt, such words really ring hollow.
If Intel really wants to reassure customers and partners, then it should come out and say what its roadmap is, at least through Celestial (Xe 3) dGPUs and ideally Druid (Xe 4) iGPUs. This whole "will they?" / "won't they?" drama has undermined confidence in their efforts, and their messaging on this front has been a lot more limited and fuzzy than when Gelsinger was in charge.
Reply
bit_user
vanadiel007 said:Let's be honest: they are and never were in a position to challenge either Nvidia or AMD.No, they're not going to compete for the flagship crown, but their biggest threat was upsetting the price structure of Nvidia and AMD's offerings. Erosion at the low end of the product stack can work its way up, making even higher-end models slightly less profitable for the companies.
Intel dGPUs have also been a great as non-gaming cards, supporting up to 4 outputs and AV1 encode/decode acceleration. They're getting scarce, but you can score an Intel Arc Pro A40, which does all this and is basically a single-slot, low-profile 50 Watt version of the A380, for under $200.
Also, from the look of it, B770 could be a decent mid-range offering (depending entirely on how it's priced).
Reply
bit_user
Notton said:If the Intel+Nvidia partnership remains on track, the earliest we are likely to see a desktop/mobile/handheld chip from them is 2028 with Hammer Lake.I think it could hit laptops as early as late 2026 or early 2027, but that depends a lot on how long they've been working on the iGPU project. They said these efforts started about 1 year ago, but I'm not sure they necessarily meant the iGPU and not simply the part about making custom Xeons with integrated NVLink.
Notton said:Maybe the GPU tile will be fine, but the CPU tile is a big question mark.IMO, the main problem with Lunar Lake is pricing. CPU-wise, I think it's decent.
Notton said:my guess, Arc dGPU will stick around until at least 2027,Why would they? For a product which is completely validated and in production (e.g. B770), they might go ahead and sell it. At this point, they've already made most of the investment and so there's less of an argument not to just sell the thing and generate some revenue from it.
For anything still requiring further investments in engineering and production, I think they're likely to get stopped in their tracks. Once a company has decided to get out of a market, they will stop dumping money into that hole almost immediately.
Reply
View All 14 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.