Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle part 2 release date rumors debunked by Crunchyroll
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Rumors had claimed sequels to the blockbuster anime would arrive in 2027 and 2029
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle part 2 release date rumors debunked by Crunchyroll
By
Isaac Rouse
Published 1 day ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Infinity Castle
Related
Baby Steps' open world will destroy you in the funniest ways possible
2 days ago
New Palworld game is a cozy farming sim, gives Pals chainsaws
3 days ago
Marvel Zombies finally delivers on the potential of What If...?
1 day ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Ufotable/Aniplex of America
Although online rumors had suggested that the two planned follow-ups to the anime blockbuster Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle would arrive in 2027 and 2029 respectively, Crunchyroll's CEO has confirmed that he does not know when they'll be released. In a Hollywood Reporter interview celebrating Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle Part 1’s record-breaking North American success, Crunchyroll CEO Rahul Purini revealed that Aniplex and Ufotable have not yet set release dates for the upcoming sequels:
Well, we’ve announced that it will be a trilogy of movies, but our partners at Aniplex and Ufotable haven’t decided on dates yet. But look, there’s definitely urgency for all of us to bring more Demon Slayer to fans as soon as we can — because we know the urgency is there among the fanbase.
Aniplex serves as the film franchise's production and distribution company, and Ufotable is its animation studio. Sony handles distribution in the U.S., and Crunchyroll serves as its anime department. Each entity is highly involved in this film trilogy, but they are not yet aligned on a release date. It may be a strategic effort on the part of Aniplex, seeking the optimal moment to capitalize on another sequel. Since 2021, Demon Slayer has delivered at least one new season each year. While a film isn’t the same as a season, that track record suggests Part 2 could land in 2026. Still, if the sequel were only a year away, an official release date probably would have been announced by now. Until all parties involved agree on release dates for Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle Parts 2 and 3, any rumored premiere date is hearsay.
News
Anime
Entertainment
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
The Mandalorian and Grogu are back in first trailer for their Star Wars movie
3 days ago
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
2 days ago
Hamish Linklater needs Midnight Mass showrunner to pick up the phone
2 days ago
It's official: Demon Slayer Infinity Castle beat Mugen train
More from our brands
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle Release Date & Time
What Is Demon Slayer's Age Rating – And Why?
‘Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle’ Movie Trilogy: What You Need To Know About the Anime’s Grand Finale
Devil May Cry Netflix Release Date & Time
Will There Ever Be A Demon Slayer Season 5?
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle Part 2: Latest News & Everything We Know About the Anime Sequel
Demon Slayer: Will The Movies Be Fully Faithful to the Manga?
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
GameStop's shiny Pokémon Scarlet and Violet giveaway is off to a rough start
Final Fantasy Tactics: The Ivalice Chronicles does justice to a cult classic
Even Spaceballs 2's cast reveal is a Star Wars spoof
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.