Kim ready for talks if U.S. gives up denuclearization demand
: NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Kim ready for talks if U.S. gives up denuclearization demand
Kim told North Korea's legislature he's ready to resume talks, adding that he had "good memories" of President Trump, despite ongoing tension over Washington's denuclearization stance.
Asia
North Korea's Kim Jong Un ready to talk if U.S. drops denuclearization demand
September 22, 20256:02 AM ET
Anthony Kuhn
In a photo provided by the North Korean government, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un speaks during a parliament session at the Supreme People's Assembly, held on Sept. 20-21 in Pyongyang, North Korea.
Korean Central News Agency/Korea News Service via AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Korean Central News Agency/Korea News Service via AP
SEOUL, South Korea — North Korean leader Kim Jong Un said there is no reason not to resume stalled negotiations with the United States, if Washington drops its "obsession" with eliminating North Korea's nuclear weapons.
World, reordering
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un meets with Chinese leader Xi Jinping
It would appear to be Kim's clearest message of his willingness to meet with President Trump and revive diplomacy that has been stalled since 2019. "If the U.S. drops its hollow obsession with denuclearization and wants to pursue peaceful coexistence with North Korea based on the recognition of reality, there is no reason for us not to sit down with the U.S.," Kim told a meeting of North Korea's legislature, the Supreme People's Assembly. "Personally, I still have good memories of U.S. President Trump," Kim added.
Sponsor Message
Kim and Trump met in Singapore, Vietnam and the inter-Korean border in 2018 and 2019, during Trump's first administration, but failed to reach a deal on denuclearization in exchange for lifting sanctions on Pyongyang. Kim added that North Korea developed nuclear weapons to ensure its survival, and it has written its irreversible nuclear status into its constitution. "The world already knows well what the United States does after forcing other countries to give up their nuclear weapons and disarm," he said. Kim and North Korean officials have repeatedly cited Iraq and Libya as states that the U.S. has disarmed before backing leadership change. President Trump told visiting South Korean President Lee Jae Myung last month that he would like to meet with Kim Jong Un this year. He has repeatedly referred to North Korea as a "nuclear power." That implies recognizing North Korea as a nuclear state, which is something previous U.S. administrations and foreign governments have consistently opposed.
The Story Behind The Story
The difficulties of covering North Korea
In a meeting in July, Secretary of State Marco Rubio and South Korean Foreign Minister Cho Hyun reaffirmed their governments' intention to realize the denuclearization of North Korea. Should Trump and Kim meet again this year, Trump would find Kim in a far stronger negotiating position, with a larger nuclear arsenal and stronger backing from Russia and China. Kim illustrated this point at a military parade in Beijing this month, where he appeared together for the first time with Russian President Vladimir Putin and China's leader, Xi Jinping.
Sponsor Message
While leaving the door open to the U.S., Kim appeared to slam another one, on South Korea, shut. "We will never unify with a country that entrusts its politics and defense to a foreign power," Kim said, calling inter-Korean unification "unnecessary." Last year, Kim said North Korea was abandoning its long-held goal of eventual reunification with the South, and severed all communications. Since taking office in June, South Korean President Lee Jae Myung has extended olive branches to the North, such as halting propaganda broadcasts into the North, but he has been repeatedly rebuffed. Lee has outlined a plan for denuclearizing North Korea in three steps: freezing, reducing and eventually dismantling the North's nuclear arsenal.
Consider This from NPR
Iran's nuclear sites got bombed. North Korea? It's another story
He says he will persist with his efforts to restore peace and trust with the North, despite Pyongyang's cold shoulder.
North Korea diplomacy
Kim Jong Un
U.S.-North Korea
nuclear weapons
denuclearization
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor