Intel could be working on its own multi-frame generation tech — XeSS MFG name and logo found in Arc graphics driver files | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
GPUs
Intel will retire rarely-used 16x MSAA support on Xe3 GPUs
Tech Industry
According to a Linkedin profile, AMD is working on another chiplet-based GPU
GPUs
AMD FSR 3.1.4 update improves image quality, eases future developer integrations
CPUs
Intel reportedly prepping supercharged Nova Lake-AX mobile chips for gaming
GPU Drivers
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
PC Gaming
Intel releases new tool to measure gaming image quality
GPUs
Intel Arc A750 prototype spotted with 16GB VRAM and 512-bit memory bus, seemingly made by Gunnir
GPUs
Intel Arc Pro B50 is up to 20% slower than the Arc B570 gaming GPU in early Geekbench tests
GPU Drivers
Nvidia driver update finally brings Smooth Motion to RTX 40-series GPUs
CPUs
Intel's rumored 'Nova Lake-AX' allegedly packs insane specs but might never launch
GPUs
RDNA 4's Unreal Engine 4 ray-tracing stutters may not be AMD-specific
GPUs
Input latency is the all-too-frequently missing piece of framegen-enhanced gaming performance analysis
GPUs
AMD accidentally marks FSR 4 open-source — source code reveals potential support for older Radeon GPUs
Tech Industry
Industry news live: the latest news from Nvidia, Intel, and AMD
CPUs
Intel promises to keep updating its game-boosting software despite recent delays
PC Components
GPUs
GPU Drivers
Intel could be working on its own multi-frame generation tech — XeSS MFG name and logo found in Arc graphics driver files
News
By
Hassam Nasir
published
24 September 2025
To compete with AMD and Nvidia.
Comments (5)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Intel)
New code unearthed in Intel's Arc graphics driver files could point to the company's plans to launch its own answer to Nvidia's multi-frame generation tech. Multi-frame generation, or MFG for short, debuted in Nvidia's keynote last year as part of its pitch for the RTX 50 series. Ada Lovelace could already do regular frame gen — inserting an AI-generated frame between two real ones — but Blackwell took it one step further — using up to three interpolated frames created from an actually rendered one. So far, neither Intel nor AMD has an answer to this, though that appears to be changing soon, according to the r/IntelArc subreddit.Scouring through the latest Arc drivers, user u/Organic-Bird-587 stumbled upon a mention of "Multi-Frame Generation (XeSS)" in the files. That was accompanied by an image that could potentially be the new logo for Intel's MFG, suggesting that the chipmaker might be working on its own multi-frame generation tech set to debut soon. Despite Arc facing fresh scrutiny following the recent Nvidia-Intel deal, the company is still believed to be working on Battlemage — its current-gen discrete GPU architecture — and states it remains committed to its Arc graphics project, which could include its fabled B770 card.Driver Built XeSS Frame Generation Might be on the way. from r/IntelArcPairing up the B770 launch with MFG could be a huge win for Intel, netting them an answer to Nvidia's multi-frame tech. AMD currently offers no MFG solution of its own, so this could be the moment to establish a unique selling point for Arc versus AMD graphics cards. Still, it's important to note that this is purely speculative, and finding trinkets of unreleased or unannounced products is commonplace in driver code — until there's confirmation from Intel, take this with a huge grain of salt, although it would make sense given the current landscape.
You may like
Intel will retire rarely-used 16x MSAA support on Xe3 GPUs
According to a Linkedin profile, AMD is working on another chiplet-based GPU
AMD FSR 3.1.4 update improves image quality, eases future developer integrations
Nvidia's historic $5 billion investment into Intel last week seemed to put the company's Arc graphics lineup in jeopardy, especially after the announcement that would see Intel create new chips featuring GPU chiplets from Nvidia. Intel later clarified that Arc will remain in development and that RTX GPUs are "complementary" — a stance that lines up with this news, as MFG is purely Nvidia's play at the moment, so offering a competitor to that almost reinforces hope that Arc is still on the battlefront, fighting to carve out its own space in a crowded market.
(Image credit: Intel)It's important to keep in mind that multi-frame generation is not a revolutionary concept and has its critics. Notably, Borderlands 4's rocky launch and Gearbox CEO Randy Pitchford's insistence that users rely on the tech to make the resource-hungry title playable haven't gone down well with fans.MFG requires a decent baseline framerate to build upon, and it introduces latency in the process. There's also a third-party solution, called Lossless Scaling, that is rising in popularity, promising up to 20x frame generation. It costs $7 but works with most GPUs. Just like XeSS works with every GPU (supporting Shader Model 6.4) after its recent update, if Intel is really working on XeSS MFG as we speak, it has the potential to democratize frame generation and make it as accessible as tweaking a DLL.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See more GPUs News
TOPICS
Intel Arc
See all comments (5)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
Read more
Intel will retire rarely-used 16x MSAA support on Xe3 GPUs
According to a Linkedin profile, AMD is working on another chiplet-based GPU
AMD FSR 3.1.4 update improves image quality, eases future developer integrations
Intel reportedly prepping supercharged Nova Lake-AX mobile chips for gaming
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Intel releases new tool to measure gaming image quality
Latest in GPU Drivers
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
AMD expands FSR 4 with drop-in support for 85 games with latest Radeon driver update
Nvidia App update furthers transition away from the 20-year-old Control Panel
Intel's new "Shared GPU Memory Override" feature allows you to manually allocate VRAM on some Core Ultra iGPUs
Two Chinese nationals arrested in the U.S. over GPU smuggling worth 'tens of millions of dollars'
AMD quietly announces Radeon RX 9060 alongside new Adrenalin driver
Latest in News
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
AMD keeps AM4 platform on life support with 2020-era Zen 3 CPU
Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD
Microsoft develops breakthrough chip cooling method
5 Comments
Comment from the forums
logainofhades
Instead of fake frames, maybe they should work more on driver overhead issues, for real frames.
Reply
Notton
I want to see how well Intel implements MFG.
Nvidia's MFG is trash and requires you already have a high base frame rate that only suffers when you turn MFG on. It's basically useless on the low end GPUs that need it most.
Oh, and I'm still waiting for regular 2x Nvidia FG to fix image artifacts.
Reply
rluker5
logainofhades said:Instead of fake frames, maybe they should work more on driver overhead issues, for real frames.If you are using a CPU slow enough to suffer from the driver overhead, I E a 2600 or 9600k, you likely wouldn't be able to hold 60 fps in many games with an Nvidia GPU so these fake frames are your only option at this point. Reducing driver overhead is simply not enough for old CPUs with the state of games currently.
I would prefer Intel does what they can and these fake frames kill 2 birds with one stone.
Reply
Gururu
Not too excited for this considering not needing it yet. Might change my tune if something too heavy I really want comes out soon.
Reply
Roland Of Gilead
I don't think MFG or anything else will save Intel's dGPU efforts. I wonder will this work on older Arc cards? If it's just driver level and doesn't use any dedicated hardware, then it may not be any use at all. We shall wait and see I guess.
Reply
View All 5 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.