Get Ready for the Holiday Tech Splurge: US Adults Expected to Spend $931 on Devices, CNET Survey Finds - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Tech Mobile
Get Ready for the Holiday Tech Splurge: US Adults Expected to Spend $931 on Devices, CNET Survey Finds
Half of US adults plan to shop for holidays early, mainly during Black Friday sales.
Dashia Milden Editor Dashia is the consumer insights editor for CNET. She specializes in data-driven analysis and news at the intersection of tech, personal finance and consumer sentiment. Dashia investigates economic shifts and everyday challenges to help readers make well-informed decisions, and she covers a range of topics, including technology, security, energy and money. Dashia graduated from the University of South Carolina with a bachelor's degree in journalism. She loves baking, teaching spinning and spending time with her family.
See full bio
Dashia Milden
Sept. 14, 2025
9:01 p.m. PT 9 min read
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty Images
The holidays are still months away, but if you want the best deals on a new laptop or smartphone, you should probably start shopping now. According to a new CNET survey, nearly half of shoppers aren't waiting until Black Friday and Cyber Monday to shop. Instead, they're shopping for tech for the holidays months early to beat potential rising prices and shortages.But is shopping early the best strategy? I spoke with CNET's resident tech and shopping experts to find out.Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source on Chrome.Here's what they say you need to know about navigating early sales, finding the best deals and avoiding common pitfalls, like product shortages and hidden price hikes.
Key takeaways
Many US adults (59%) are interested in purchasing tech devices this holiday season. Smartphones (26%) and laptops (23%) are at the top of shoppers' lists. The average US shopper plans to spend $931.18 on tech devices this holiday season, and millennials plan to spend $139 more. Over half (59%) plan to shop Black Friday sales to save money on holiday tech purchases, followed by comparison shopping (37%). Half of shoppers plan to shop for tech early (August to October), but a quarter plan to shop in November. Nearly 9 in 10 (87%) have shopping concerns about purchasing consumer tech this holiday season, including rising prices and tariffs.
Shoppers plan to spend an average of $931 on tech this holiday seasonCNET found that US shoppers plan to spend an average of $931.18 on tech this holiday season, and a few devices top their shopping lists. The millennial generation expects to spend more, with an average of $1,070.57 on tech this holiday season. Gen X plans to spend the least, with $747.02.
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty ImagesSmartphones and laptops are at the top of holiday tech wish lists Smartphones (26%) and laptops (23%) are the top two tech gadgets most US adults are buying this holiday season. Between new features and popular releases, CNET experts shared why smartphones and laptops are sought after this year and what to know before you buy.
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty ImagesSmartphones New smartphone models, including the Google Pixel 10 and Apple's iPhone 17, are released months before the holidays. Some features, like Apple Intelligence and Gemini Nano, are limited to newer models. David Lumb, CNET's mobile expert and reporter, says that may persuade you to buy a new phone for the holidays. "It's probably the time of year when consumers' old phones start to feel long in the tooth -- and with new iPhones typically released in September, they may be tempted by their extra features and capabilities."But don't expect to see steep discounts on these newly released models in time for the holidays. Lumb says most brand-new phones released within the past few months won't have great holiday deals. Sometimes Samsung doesn't follow this trend, but Apple rarely discounts its phones. You may see a $100 discount on last year's iPhone when the new one is released. When's the best time to buy? If you're still planning to buy a new phone this year, November is the best time to look for one, especially during Black Friday and Cyber Monday week. Retailers will have the best deals then, but don't expect big discounts. Some phone carriers may offer trade-in offers, but comparing deals is still best. "The best way to save money on brand-new premium phones is to look for bundles and deals from carriers and third-party retailers like Best Buy or Amazon," Lumb says. "And make sure you're taking care of your old phone to get the most trade-in value, which can save you hundreds of dollars off a new one when you turn in your old one."There are still a few popular budget-friendly smartphones if you're looking for a good deal but don't need the latest and greatest. "While this year's new iPhone 16E stretches the idea of 'budget' at $600, the $429 iPhone SE released in 2022 remains the most affordable iOS phone," Lumb says. "Android fans have far more options around the same price range, like the $499 Google Pixel 9A or $400 Samsung Galaxy A36, and into true budget territory with the $300 Moto G Power 5G, $250 TCL 60 XE NxtPaper 5G and $200 Samsung Galaxy A16." Laptops Deals are available on several types of laptops, including budget-friendly options and high-performance gaming models. Depending on your needs, you can choose from plenty of laptops, but CNET recommends the M4 MacBook Air or the Microsoft Surface Laptop 7. Before you buy a laptop this holiday season, Josh Goldman, CNET's laptop expert and managing editor, recommends setting a budget and expectations first. "The best move is to set a budget, try to stick to it and look at deals from retailers and direct from the manufacturers," Goldman says. Most importantly, make sure you're getting a laptop with the features and specifications you need now and in the foreseeable future. When's the best time to buy? Goldman says if Amazon follows its usual fall Prime Day sale, you should start to see good deals on computers then. Deals are expected to continue through Black Friday and the week of Cyber Monday. You can find the lowest laptop prices during Black Friday,  but there are sales throughout the year. "Unless you're buying one as a gift or have an urgent need, another sale is always just around the corner," Goldman says.TVs are also on holiday shopping lists One in five (20%) shoppers is considering buying TVs this holiday season. While CNET tracks weekly TV deals and lists the best TVs of this year, it's still a prime time to buy now. When's the best time to buy? David Katzmaier, CNET's resident TV expert and senior editorial director, says the best time to start shopping for one is usually around Black Friday. Deals will continue through the holiday season, leading up to the Super Bowl in February. You may still find deals during the fall Prime Day or other early sales. Katzmaier recommends using a price tracker, like Keepa, for historical pricing and to spot a good deal. Keepa is one of several websites with a browser extension to track Amazon product prices. Experts also recommend CamelCamelCamel. "That way, when it goes on sale, you know how deep the discount really is and you can pounce if it's a good deal. Waiting is usually the best strategy and when the TV hits an all-time low, go for it," Katzmaier says. However, the more substantial discounts are usually on the more expensive TV options because they cost more, but you can still find good offers on other models. "The best deals we find are often midpriced models -- neither super budget nor really high-end -- that go on sale during Black Friday," Katzmaier says. "Those are also the kinds of TVs that do the best in our reviews."Shoppers are concerned about buying tech for the holidays Nearly nine in 10 (87%) of shoppers are worried about purchasing tech this holiday season. By the numbers, over half (52%) are worried about tariffs and rising prices on tech they plan to buy, while 48% worry about finding quality tech at an affordable price. Other concerns include shoppers being able to afford new tech (38%), going into debt or straining their finances to purchase devices (26%) and availability and shortages (23%). The concerns are valid. Holiday tech shopping may not be smooth sailing for some popular tech devices, like video gaming consoles and smartphones. Here's a closer look and what CNET experts are seeing.Over half of shoppers are worried about rising prices and tariffs With over half of shoppers worried about rising prices and tariffs, Russell Holly, CNET's shopping expert and director of commerce, has seen plenty of evidence that suggests tariffs on personal electronics and home tech will affect prices during sales this year. However, you can get ahead of some price hikes on personal and home tech essentials. "Things like AA batteries, replacement batteries for AirTags and even kitchen necessities like dishwasher tabs will reduce possible price gouging later," Holly says. Goldman says that it's less about tariffs for many retailers. There are other economic factors impacting prices."We've seen some small price increases, but several manufacturers we've asked about the impact of tariffs have said the increases are more about general inflation and that sometimes newer tech just costs more, which is true," Goldman says. "Sometimes you have to wait a couple of years for the latest and greatest to become more affordable." Nearly half are worried about finding tech at an affordable priceBridget Carey, CNET's consumer tech expert and editor, advised shopping with caution and not buying the first device you see, especially if you're concerned about finding quality devices at a good price. More paid social media influencers and AI-generated search results are skewing top recommendations, which may not be the best or accurate, she says. That's why she recommends taking an extra few minutes to do your research to save money and frustration from a device you're unhappy with."Before making a large purchase, it's more important this year to find reviews written by independent, trusted sources to weed out the junk -- or just to help you find the right brand for your needs," Carey adds. Expect shortages on popular tech itemsSome popular newly released items may face shortages this holiday shopping season, especially if there's a good deal. That's a concern that nearly 1 in 4 (23%) have. If there's a must-have item on your list, like the highly anticipated iPhone 17 or the Nintendo Switch 2, don't wait to buy it if it's in stock and you can afford it. That's because waiting for lower prices may mean missing out on the item altogether. For example, Carey predicts that the Nintendo Switch 2 may be tighter on supply as December approaches."Nintendo of America president Doug Bowser told CBS there would be a steady supply of Switch 2 units coming throughout the year. But our CNET Switch 2 restock tracker has found stores regularly going out of stock, so I would shop sooner rather than later to avoid disappointment," Carey says. Half of US adults are shopping for tech ahead of the holiday season
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty ImagesThinking about holiday shopping before Halloween may sound odd, but Carey recommends planning your shopping list now. "With the cost of tech increasing, you'll want to be prepared to jump on any sale you see in October and early November. Black Friday isn't just one weekend anymore — it starts in October." But you'll still want to keep an eye out for sales after October and pay attention to return policies just in case you find a better deal. CNET found that half of tech shoppers plan to shop early -- September and October -- to ease some of their shopping concerns. Still, most shoppers (25%) plan to wait until November, and 6% will wait until December. How US adults are trimming costs on consumer tech and servicesClose to nine in 10 (89%) shoppers plan to use various strategies. Shopping on Black Friday is the most popular money-saving method (59%). Other popular methods include comparison shopping (37%), shopping during Fall Prime Day and competing retailer sales (34%), shopping refurbished or pre-owned tech (23%) and shopping earlier (22%).If you're comparing prices, especially during sales, Holly advises making sure you're getting a deal. "Tools like CamelCamelCamel.com will show you the price history of a product, so you know whether the sale is genuine and how tariffs have affected the price over the course of this year," Holly says. "You can also verify discounts through CNET's Deals page, where we actively track discounts to make sure you're getting the lowest price."So when's the best time to buy tech and appliances?Holly adds that Black Friday sales focus on entertainment and popular gifts. It's also a good time to shop for TVs, eBikes and gaming accessories. Fall sales before Black Friday typically focus on home appliances, laptops and emergency preparedness. "The best strategy for making sure you're getting the best deals is to prioritize more practical life improvements first and be ready for entertainment purchases closer to the end of the year," said Holly. Methodology CNET commissioned YouGov Plc to conduct the survey. All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from YouGov Plc. The total sample size was 2,395 US adults, of whom 1,369 were interested in purchasing consumer tech products or services this winter holiday season. Fieldwork was undertaken Aug. 20-22, 2025. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all US adults (aged 18+).
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.