Daily briefing: World’s first AI-designed viruses attack antibiotic-resistant bacteria
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
nature briefing
article
NATURE BRIEFING
22 September 2025
Daily briefing: World’s first AI-designed viruses attack antibiotic-resistant bacteria
Scientists have used Evo1 and Evo2 to design novel genomes for viruses capable of killing E. coli. Plus, a federal research funding is trickling back into Harvard and what drove the rise of complex societies.
By
Flora Graham
Flora Graham
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Sign up for Nature Briefing
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Hello Nature readers, would you like to get this Briefing in your inbox free every day? Sign up here.AI-designed bacteriophages were capable of infecting and killing host bacteria. Credit: Lee D. Simon/Science Photo Library AI helps to design E. coli-killing virusesUsing artificial intelligence (AI), researchers have designed novel viruses capable of killing strains of Escherichia coli. The team used the DNA of a simple bacteriophage called ΦX174 to guide AI models to generate viral genomes with the specific function of infecting antibiotic-resistant strains of E. coli. Researchers used the model’s suggested sequences to select 302 viable phages. When put to the test, 16 of these phages could infect E. coli, and combinations of them could kill three strains of the bacterium, a feat the original ΦX174 couldn’t pull off.Nature | 5 min readReference: bioRxiv preprint (not peer reviewed)US vaccine meeting ends with confusionAn influential panel of US vaccine advisers that became controversial after it was abruptly reconstituted by US health secretary and long-time anti-vaccine activist Robert F. Kennedy Jr has come together, with vague results. The panel stopped short of recommending COVID-19 vaccines, but left room for government programmes and private health insurers to continue covering the shots. The group indefinitely delayed its guidance on hepatitis B vaccination for newborn babies. And it overturned its decision, made just the day before, about free measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccines for under-4s. MMRV doses were to have been made available free to some children, but now they won’t.Nature | 6 min readGrant money trickles back into HarvardHarvard University scored a victory in court two weeks ago, when a US judge ruled that its research grants should be reinstated and its funding unfrozen. Millions from the US National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health are flowing back to the university, but researchers report that the restoration has been patchy and much damage has been done. On Friday, in a joint status update before a judge, both Harvard and the US government asked for more time to “work through implementation issues” of complying fully with the court order.Nature | 6 min readAtomic conveyor could boost quantum techA ‘conveyor belt’ of atoms arranged in orderly rows could resolve a major stumbling block towards developing a large-scale quantum computer. The new approach uses an array of rubidium atoms inside a high-vacuum vessel, with a gas of more rubidium atoms suspended just below it. Using laser beams called ‘optical tweezers’, researchers scooped up atoms from the gas to prepare a second array as a back-up. When the first array loses atoms — an inevitability during quantum calculations — the back-up array can be moved up to interact with and replenish it, which keeps the computer in action.Nature | 4 min readReference: Nature paperA micrograph showing the operation of a ‘conveyor belt’ of atom arrays. At each step, a fresh array is created at the bottom, then brought up to interact with an existing array, which might have lost some atoms while performing quantum computation. The old array is then moved up and discarded.Credit: Neng-Chun Chiu et al/NatureFeatures & opinionHow warfare drove the rise of civilizationsIn The Great Holocene Transformation, complexity scientist Peter Turchin sets out to explain how, over the past 10,000 years, small collectives of farmers and foragers grew into powerhouse societies. His answer, “depressingly and paradoxically, is war”, says science writer Laura Spinney in her review. Turchin has addressed the same question in a previous book, she writes, but “this time, he shows his workings, and he has more data and better tools”. Ironically, this data-driven approach is likely to further repel some of the conventional historians that Turchin has previously failed to win over, Spinney says.Nature | 7 min readRecording tools write daily diary for cellsBy outfitting cells with the molecular equivalent of flight recorders, scientists can now log, in real time, the signals that cells receive, the paths they travel and the developmental decisions they make — all inscribed indelibly in genomic ink. It is early days, but researchers have used these tools to trace the growth of mouse embryos and capture gene activity in animal brains. Scientists are also exploring how to harness these tools for real-time disease monitoring — by engineering cells that patrol the body and log signs of trouble in molecular memory.Nature | 11 min readWhere I workJohannes Huber is a wood scientist and engineer at Luleå University of Technology in Skellefteå, Sweden.Credit: Elin Berge for NatureWood scientist Johannes Huber uses computed tomography (CT) scanning to test the properties of wood samples without breaking them. “Wood has character; no two logs are alike,” he says. Using industrial CT scanners, Huber can create detailed models of the wood’s internal structure. “If we can evaluate it non-destructively, we can optimize how we use this material,” he says. (Nature | 3 min read)Quote of the day“Sometimes they are the end of tubes in the digestive system, sometimes the end of feet and hands, i.e., digits. Therefore, both mark the end of something.”To develop their fingers and toes, tetrapods recycled an ancient region of the genome that was once active in the formation of the rear orifice of fish, says geneticist Aurélie Hintermann, who co-authored a study on the topic. (Science Alert | 4 min read)Reference: Nature paper
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03106-4On Friday, Leif Penguinson was hiding on the shores of the world's highest freshwater lake system — the Gokyo Lakes in Nepal. Did you find the penguin? When you’re ready, here’s the answer.Thanks for reading,Flora Graham, senior editor, Nature BriefingWith contributions by Jacob Smith• Nature Briefing: Careers — insights, advice and award-winning journalism to help you optimize your working life• Nature Briefing: Microbiology — the most abundant living entities on our planet — microorganisms — and the role they play in health, the environment and food systems• Nature Briefing: Anthropocene — climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and geoengineering• Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course• Nature Briefing: Cancer — a weekly newsletter written with cancer researchers in mind• Nature Briefing: Translational Research — covers biotechnology, drug discovery and pharma
Related Articles
Daily briefing: Device senses silent speech without an invasive brain implant
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Jobs
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
The School of Life Science and Technology (SLST) invites applications for numerous tenure-track and tenured positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Daily briefing: Device senses silent speech without an invasive brain implant
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited