Notes Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Notes
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
18 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article On inclusive personas and inclusive user research
accessibility UI/IX Design
On inclusive personas and inclusive user research
A set of notes taken from Eric Bailey's article about the use of inclusive personas and user research.
Sep 19, 2025
Direct link to the article Getting Clarity on Apple’s Liquid Glass
apple design systems Graphic Design UI/IX Design
Getting Clarity on Apple’s Liquid Glass
Gathered notes on Liquid Glass, Apple’s new design language that was introduced at WWDC 2025. These links are a choice selection of posts and resources that I've found helpful for understanding the context of Liquid Glass, as well as techniques for recreating it in code.
Jul 17, 2025
Direct link to the article You can style alt text like any other text
accessibility images
You can style alt text like any other text
Clever, clever that Andy Bell. He shares a technique for displaying image alt text when the image fails to load. Well, more precisely, it's a technique to apply styles to the alt when the image doesn't load, offering a nice UI fallback for what would otherwise be a busted-looking error.
May 22, 2025
Direct link to the article CSS shape() Commands
CSS functions
CSS shape() Commands
The CSS shape() function recently gained support in both Chromium and WebKit browsers. It's a way of drawing complex shapes when clipping elements with the clip-path property.
May 12, 2025
Direct link to the article CSS Carousels
carousel
CSS Carousels
Chrome has prototyped these features and released them in Chrome 135. Adam Argyle has a wonderful explainer over at the Chrome Developer blog. Kevin Powell has an equally wonderful video where he follows the explainer. This post is me taking notes from them.
Apr 9, 2025
Direct link to the article Web Components Demystified
web components
Web Components Demystified
Scott Jehl released a course called Web Components Demystified. This is my full set of notes from Scott's course. You'll still want to take the course on your own, and I encourage you to because Scott is an excellent teacher who makes all of this stuff extremely accessible, even to noobs like me.
Mar 14, 2025
Direct link to the article Functions in CSS?!
functions
Functions in CSS?!
Arguments?! Return values?! What's crazier, you can use functions right now in Chrome Canary! So, after reading and playing around, here are my key insights on what you need to know about CSS Functions.
Mar 3, 2025
Direct link to the article Using & Styling the Details Element
details/summary html elements
Using & Styling the Details Element
Now that we're 5+ years into the details element, we know more about it than ever before. I thought I'd round that information up so it's in one place I can reference in the future without having to search the site — and other sites — to find it.
May 27, 2025
Direct link to the article Alt Text: Not Always Needed
accessibility alt text
Alt Text: Not Always Needed
Most images require description for clarity, there are exceptions. This set of notes looks at different situations and contexts where alt text may not be needed and what to do in those cases.
Nov 25, 2024
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top