eGPUs over Thunderbolt sound great, but they come with limitations
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
eGPUs over Thunderbolt sound great, but be aware of these limitations
By
Joe Rice-Jones
Published 4 days ago
Maker, meme-r, and unabashed geek, Joe has been writing about technology since starting his career in 2018 at KnowTechie. He's covered everything from Apple to apps and crowdfunding and loves getting to the bottom of complicated topics. In that time, he's also written for SlashGear and numerous corporate clients before finding his home at XDA in the spring of 2023.
He was the kid who took apart every toy to see how it worked, even if it didn't exactly go back together afterward. That's given him a solid background for explaining how complex systems work together, and he promises he's gotten better at the putting things back together stage since then.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
External graphics cards have occupied a niche market over the last decade. When Thunderbolt 5 was announced, some of us thought it would make eGPUs viable, but the truth is somewhat complicated. The popularity of PC gaming handhelds gives eGPUs another chance at being relevant, but the slow adoption of Thunderbolt 5 has somewhat limited their effectiveness. For those of you who need the extra GPU grunt, eGPUs still have their place, but it's important to know exactly what you're getting into when you decide to purchase one, as your expectations might not match up with the reality.
Thunderbolt 5 is a step (or two) in the right direction
But adoption of the new standard is predictably slow
Thunderbolt 5 is now available on several computers, but it's seeing slow adoption while many manufacturers are opting for USB4 instead. That's not a complete death knell for Thunderbolt eGPUs as USB4 is compatible and is roughly on par with TB4, but anyone hoping that TB5 would be the savior of the space needs to temper their expectations somewhat. Even with Thunderbolt 5, eGPUs have a performance hit compared to a native GPU installation. That's not unsurprising, as GPUs are used to having sixteen lanes of PCIe connectivity, and Thunderbolt at best enables the equivalent of four lanes of PCIe bandwidth. External GPUs have historically only delivered anywhere between 70% and 90% of their potential desktop performance, and that isn't going to change any time soon. And while Apple has shifted to Thunderbolt 5 on all new Macs, no GPU drivers work on Apple Silicon. That would have been the best place for eGPU use, but now those external enclosures can't use their best asset on Macs. Windows users have issues with drivers causing compatibility concerns, including CPU throttling when a Thunderbolt eGPU is used.
Bandwidth continues to be an issue
Newer Thunderbolt eGPU enclosures promise more bandwidth than previous generations, but I worry that focusing on that specification above all others is missing the big picture. That's not to say Thunderbolt 5 is bad, because it can give you up to three times the bandwidth of TB4, as long as you're using an external monitor with your eGPU.
Thunderbolt 3/4: 40Gbps maximum, which is about the bandwidth of PCIe 3.0 x4
Thunderbolt 5: 80Gbps (120Gbps with boost)
Bandwidth is only part of the problem, as the Thunderbolt controller adds latency to every frame sent. When using an eGPU dock with a laptop or handheld gaming console with an internal display, the latency increases even more, as you send data to the eGPU, then back to the device for use. Even using an external display plugged into the eGPU doesn't remove all the latency, but it is reduced. This could reduce your eGPU performance by a third or more, reducing the impact of the more powerful hardware on your game.
Graphics cards continue to increase in size (and power requirements)
External GPU enclosures are bigger than some PC cases
Source: Razer
Thunderbolt 5 still doesn't have the bandwidth needed for flagship GPU use, which is a shame because high-end graphics cards are what you'd want in an eGPU as a docked solution to add graphical grunt to your laptop or other mobile device. And the increase in power for iGPUs means that external solutions are less necessary, but they'll always have a niche of enthusiasts who like the idea and are willing to live with the trade-offs. There might be a compelling argument for using midrange GPUs with an eGPU enclosure. The reasoning is that midrange GPUs don't have the high bandwidth requirements of flagships, so they can offer an FPS boost much closer to their full potential. I wouldn't go higher than an AMD RX 9060 XT or an Nvidia RTX 5060 Ti, because the performance increase hits a wall shortly afterward, and anything more expensive would be a waste. When you factor in the enclosure cost and the PSU needed for the graphics card, using an eGPU is an expensive alternative to building a desktop PC. It's definitely for enthusiasts or perhaps those users who need the additional computational power for AI or data analysis, and can live with the latency and reduced bandwidth.
Credit: Source: Razer
Razer Core X V2
$350 at Amazon
$350 at Razer
Expand
Collapse
Thunderbolt 5 is good, but things could be better for eGPU users
Thunderbolt isn't the only connection standard for eGPU use. OCuLink is an open standard that runs directly off the PCIe bus, is cheaper to use, but it's never really been supported by laptop and desktop manufacturers. Some handheld consoles support it, and it has its own quirks, like needing a system reboot to enable it. Will there be a new standard for external GPU users that enables more than four lanes of PCIe connectivity at some point? Maybe, but then it's still a niche market and unlikely to get significant funds for developing a better way of doing things.
GPU
eGPU
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 18, 2025
News flash: cable management isn't the nightmare it used to be
7 days ago
Tdarr is the perfect tool to optimize your movie and TV show storage on your NAS
Sep 18, 2025
macOS Tahoe is apparently breaking the Touch Bar Apple seems to have forgotten
7 days ago
5 most dangerous PC hardware myths for novice PC builders
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
5 ‘just-enough’ open-source apps I’m using to finally escape the Google ecosystem
5 reasons my VLANs only separate wired devices from wireless
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.