Why the Switch 2 isn't my most-used handheld
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I love my Switch 2, but this pocketable powerhouse is the console I use most
By
Joe Rice-Jones
Published 1 day ago
Maker, meme-r, and unabashed geek, Joe has been writing about technology since starting his career in 2018 at KnowTechie. He's covered everything from Apple to apps and crowdfunding and loves getting to the bottom of complicated topics. In that time, he's also written for SlashGear and numerous corporate clients before finding his home at XDA in the spring of 2023.
He was the kid who took apart every toy to see how it worked, even if it didn't exactly go back together afterward. That's given him a solid background for explaining how complex systems work together, and he promises he's gotten better at the putting things back together stage since then.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
It's no secret that I love handheld gaming. I've got many of the
PC gaming handhelds so far, that I've modded, added more storage, and tend to use more than my gaming PC. I've got a Nintendo Switch, a Nintendo Switch 2, the ModRetro Chromatic to play Game Boy cartridges, controllers to turn my phone into a handheld, and docks to turn handhelds into TV consoles, and you know what? One retro handheld has got my attention more than any other, and it's not the newest addition to my collection, the Nintendo Switch 2.
It's the imminently pocketable clamshell Anbernic RG35XXSP, which takes more than a dash of design inspiration from the Nintendo Game Boy Advance SP. Maybe that's no surprise because that was my favorite handheld ever made, and the ability to play multiple emulators' worth of retro games is simply amazing.
Sorry, Nintendo, but my princess is in another castle
I love the SP-inspired Anbernic too much to put it down
What's better than a retro-inspired handheld console? Coating it in transparent plastic, like all the best accessories back then. The Anbernic RG35XXSP scratches my retro itch in every way, with the nice-feeling buttons, 640x480 screen, and flip-to-hibernate that makes me feel like I'm playing the best of old cartridge-based consoles. Except it's not cartridge-based, it has two microSD card slots that can each use up to 512GB, which is a staggering amount of retro ROMs if you think about how little space each one takes up. It's the perfect size for long gaming sessions, revisiting my youth, and it doesn't fatigue like the larger gaming handhelds of recent years. While it has emulators for several consoles that use analog joysticks, the console doesn't have any, so I've been sticking to anything pre-analog, which runs well. Plus, I've been using it to replay ScummVM classics, and I can stream more powerful games to it from my PC
using Moonlight.
I can even play PC games on it if I want
You're not limited to the Anbernic firmware, with multiple custom firmware options available and some ports of well-known options. muOS gives you more features, but adding Batocera for more emulators, including ports of PC games, makes the Anbernic sing. Granted, it's not the most powerful processor in the world, so you're limited on what you can run, but that's okay because I don't expect to play AAA titles on something like this. I need a console I can flip open, play something for a little bit, and put it back away to sleep until the next time I give myself a gaming break. If I had to grumble, it would be that it only has 1GB of DDR4 RAM, whereas it could be so much more versatile with the four Cortex-A53 cores and Mali G31 GPU. Mobile processors are cheap, as is RAM. It could have been such a better device with another $5 or $10 of components added to the overall cost.
Image Credit: Anbernic
Anbernic RG35XXSP
$44
$65
Save $21
9/10
Chipset
H700 quad-core ARM Cortex-A53, 1.5GHz frequency
RAM
LPDDR4 1GB
Storage
64GB TF/MicroSD
Wireless Connectivity
Wi-Fi, Bluetooth
$44 at Anbernic
$70 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
The Nintendo Switch 2 has become my TV console
Ironically, this is one handheld I don't like picking up
I grew up in the 8-bit era, with the NES cementing its way in my soul from an early age. Okay, maybe it was before the 8-bit era because I remember the Commodore 64, ColecoVision, Atari, and a few other computers that were much closer to consoles than PCs, but Nintendo has always been there. I didn't get into SEGA until the
Genesis days, and more people I knew had SNES consoles, so there always seemed to be a Nintendo console plugged into the TV whenever I went to a friend's house.
Maybe that's why both my Switch consoles live in their docks at the side of the TV in my office. It's not just a good space for them to fit — it's the natural fit in my mind. Those days of playing Mario Kart or F-Zero, or struggling together through whichever JRPG we'd rented for a few weeks from the local video store were formative for me, teaching so many things about community and friendship through the medium of pixelated gaming. I don't care that the display isn't native 4K, or that the frame rate isn't as high as my gaming PC. The only thing that matters is sharing those experiences with those close to me, and that's something that is worth holding onto in this disconnected internet age.
But I can't deny how good the games are
The best thing about any Nintendo gaming console is the games, and they haven't disappointed so far on the Switch 2. Donkey Kong Bananza has grabbed my heart, turning the most frustrating side-scrolling platformers into a free-for-all exploratory bonanza that just won't quit. It's full of the weirdness and quirkiness that make the essence of all classic first-party Nintendo games, and I hope it gets a sequel. Mario Kart World has a lesser hold on me, but since I can play it with my kid, it's got a special place in the household. Especially today, where every game for kids has either barely moderated online modes or age-inappropriate elements, I love that I can fire up any Nintendo game and have a safe place to game together. That's partly why it's always plugged into the TV, because the titles are there for sharing, not for simply playing on a small screen solo.
Image credit: Nintendo
Nintendo Switch 2
9/10
4K Capability
Yes
4K Capabilities
4K 60Hz (TV mode only)
Top Games
Mario Kart World, Donkey Kong Bananza, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild — Nintendo Switch 2 Edition
Power Source
60W USB-C power adapter
$450 at Best Buy
$449 at Walmart
$450 at Target
$450 at GameStop
Expand
Collapse
I wish for a true Game Boy SP successor
I know Nintendo rarely goes back to retread the design of any of its handheld consoles for more than two generations, although the 2DS and 3DS bucked that trend. I'd love to see an all-metal SP from Nintendo, with a proper attempt at game preservation and an extensive back catalog that the game maker has. It sucks that we have to turn to emulation to play classics that aren't playable today, or that the few games that have been remastered have been locked behind the Nintendo Online subscription, so you have to keep paying to keep playing. Until then, the Anbernic RG35XXSP isn't going to be far from my heart, or my pocket.
Gaming Handhelds
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
NotebookLM’s new feature beats Quizlet at its own game
2 days ago
I've saved more than $150 with these 3D prints
2 days ago
This chair moves with you: LiberNovo Omni's pre-sale begins after record Kickstarter
3 days ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
30 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I use these Microsoft Teams tricks for flawless communication
Even with the world's highest electricity prices, my high-end PC isn't the energy hog I expected
4 things the game doesn't tell you in Hollow Knight: Silksong
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.