Best Antivirus Software We've Tested in 2025: This Security Service Just Dethroned a Top Competitor - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Tech Services & Software
Best Antivirus Software We've Tested in 2025: This Security Service Just Dethroned a Top Competitor
We researched and tested top antivirus software like Bitdefender and McAfee to help you select the best cybersecurity suite for your digital safety needs.
Our Experts
Written by
Dianna Gunn
Written by
Clifford Colby
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Article updated on July 17, 2025 at 12:15 PM PDT
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time. Expertise Web Hosting, Online Business Management
See full bio
Clifford Colby Former Managing Editor Clifford led How To coverage. He spent a handful of years at Peachpit Press, editing books on everything from the first iPhone to Python. He also worked at a handful of now-dead computer magazines, including MacWeek and MacUser. Expertise Tech, from browser security to password managers, and government programs, from mail-in voting to federal assistance
See full bio
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Effectiveness
Antivirus software runs virus scans for known viruses and malware, watches for shady websites, offers ransomware protection and monitors unexpected behavior that may be a sign of new viruses and malware. You want antivirus software that can successfully identify these unknown online threats without flagging too many false positives.
Light on system resources
You don't want antivirus software that taxes your PC's resources. If after you install the program, websites open slowly, apps download or open sluggishly or copying a file takes longer than expected, you may want to try another service.
Cost and discounts
Before you buy, check for discounts on a company's website. Another way to save: The prices we list above are for 10 devices -- if the company offered that package -- but you can trim your cost with antivirus packages if you need to cover three or five devices.
Privacy
Companies say they anonymize this technical data as much as possible to protect your privacy. The security companies on our list post privacy policies on their websites, so read their privacy statements to learn what the companies do with the information you share.
Protection for other platforms
Microsoft is by far the biggest target for viruses and malware. Android is second, with just under 1% of apps installed on Android devices with Google Play Protect in the potentially harmful category.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
From our phones to our laptops, we use many gadgets and increasingly store vital information on them. Malware can be used to steal this data and lock you out of your devices, derailing your personal and professional life. High-quality antivirus software can prevent this by scanning files you attempt to download and attempting to block anything deemed suspicious or harmful. We’ve extensively researched and tested the most popular antivirus tools -- along with the security suites they come bundled in -- to help you find the right antivirus software for your cybersecurity needs. Our Picks
Best overall antivirus protection Bitdefender
Jump to details
$34.99: Up to 3 devices / 1 year
See at Bitdefender
Jump to details
Best antivirus for users with numerous devices McAfee Plus Premium
Jump to details
See at McAfee
Jump to details
Best cross-platform total security Norton 360 With LifeLock Select
Jump to details
See at Norton
Jump to details
Best antivirus with a free option AVG Internet Security
Jump to details
See at AVG
Jump to details
Best for maintaining user privacy Malwarebytes
Jump to details
See at Malwarebytes
Jump to details
Show 0 more
Featured Deal What is this?
Save up to 58% on your first year Norton 360 Deluxe
$50 at Norton
ANTIVIRUS DEALS OF THE WEEK
ESET Essential Plan for 1 Year (3 Devices):  $42 (save $18)
Norton AntiVirus Plus for 1 Year (1 Devices):  $30 (save $30) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Antivirus Software We've Tested in 2025: This Security Service Just Dethroned a Top Competitor
What's the best antivirus software overall?
Best antivirus software of 2025
Best overall antivirus protection
Best antivirus for users with numerous devices
Best cross-platform total security
Best antivirus with a free option
Best for maintaining user privacy
Save up to 58% on your first year
Best antivirus software compared
Factors to consider when choosing antivirus software
How we test antivirus software
Other antivirus software we've tested
Best antivirus FAQ
Recent updates
What's the best antivirus software overall?Our hands-on antivirus testing showed that Bitdefender is the best antivirus software of 2025. Plans include a myriad of security tools capable of protecting most aspects of your online presence, plus identity monitoring and identity theft insurance for users with advanced assets. You'll also enjoy Bitdefender's user-friendly interface, resource-light yet highly effective performance and comprehensive privacy policies that keep your data safe. However, Bitdefender covers only up to five devices on individual plans.For users with numerous gadgets, McAfee is the best antivirus software, because it offers a variety of cybersecurity and identity protection tools, with coverage for unlimited devices on most plans -- and for lower prices than Bitdefender's five-device plans. However, it'll use more of your device's resources.Best antivirus software of 2025
Screenshot by Dianna Gunn/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/2
Screenshot by Dianna Gunn/CNET
Best overall antivirus protection
Bitdefender
9.5
/10
SCORE
Pros
Lightweight and easy on PC resources
Digital footprint tool helps you fully understand where your information lives online
Compatible with Windows, Mac, iOS and Android
Identity theft protection and restoration
Password manager
Parental controls
Cons
Firewall protection and performance tools not available on MacOS
Protection only includes up to five devices
Poor VPN performance
Identity theft protection is only available for US customers
Originally sold as AVX (AntiVirus eXpert), Bitdefender has protected Windows and MacOS computers since the 1990s. Bitdefender's service expanded to cover iOS and Android in the 2010s, ensuring protection for all of your devices.Why we like itBitdefender's antivirus had excellent usability and performance during my hands-on testing, and it also consistently earns top marks from respected independent antivirus testing labs like AV-Test and AV-Comparatives. The Bitdefender Ultimate Security packages also include a slew of other privacy and security tools, including a VPN, password manager, parental controls, email protection (for local email tools like Outlook), an autopilot tool to help you understand how secure your computer is and webcam protection. I was impressed by the usability and functionality of most of these tools. The digital footprint visualization tool was particularly effective, finding everything from old online accounts to cookies and other trackers connected to sites I've visited, with data going back several years. Bitdefender also provided buttons for requesting data removal from each of these sites, making it easy to clean up my online presence.Additionally, you’ll get two performance-enhancing tools: a One-click Optimizer that aims to help you find ways to speed up your device and a Battery Mode tool for configuring how much power individual device functions use to improve your laptop's battery life. However, it’s worth noting that these tools -- and the firewall protection offered by Bitdefender -- aren’t available for MacOS.Who it's best forBitdefender Ultimate Security is your best choice if you want a suite of tools to protect all of your digital activities, including email and other online activities. The parental controls also make Bitdefender Ultimate Security a great choice if you've got kids or regularly care for kids who might use your devices.Who should look elsewhereBitdefender isn't a great choice for users with numerous devices, as its Ultimate Security packages only provide protection for up to five devices. This is notable when compared to McAfee, which offers protection for unlimited devices, or Norton, which has plans that cover up to 10 devices.Bitdefender's VPN also isn't great, significantly slowing down my internet speed during my testing. Unfortunately, this is a common issue among VPNs built into cybersecurity packages from antivirus companies. If you're looking for a high-quality VPN, we recommend purchasing separate software like ExpressVPN.Finally, it's worth noting that Bitdefender's identity theft protection is only available to US customers. Again, this issue is common among antivirus companies' cybersecurity packages, with international identity theft protection only being available through Malwarebytes. If you're outside of the US, you'll want to seek out a separate tool for identity theft protection.PricingBitdefender Total Security starts at $60 for the first year ($110 per year on renewal) and includes the core antivirus, password manager and VPN with a daily limit of 200MB per device. However, most users will get the greatest benefit from the Bitdefender Ultimate Security plan, which includes unlimited VPN, scam protection tools and dark web monitoring for $90 in the first year and $160 per year after. If you have significant assets to protect, you can further upgrade to Bitdefender Ultimate Security Plus for $120 for the first year ($190 on renewal).If you just want antivirus software, you can get coverage for one device for $30 for the first year ($70 per year on renewal) or try the free version. But since most folks own multiple devices, we recommend Ultimate Security for comprehensive coverage.  ... Show more
Get it now
$34.99: Up to 3 devices / 1 year
See at Bitdefender
Specs & Configurations
Price
Best plan starts at $90 for first year; $160 a year on renewalOperating systems
Windows, MacOS (limited features), iOS, AndroidMaximum devices covered
5Stand-out features
VPN, password manager, parental controls, email protection, webcam protection, identity theft protectionRefund period
NoneFree trial
None
Add to compare
McAfee
Photo Gallery 1/2
McAfee
Best antivirus for users with numerous devices
McAfee Plus Premium
8.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Protection for unlimited devices
Text scam detector
Social media privacy manager
Online account manager helps you find and delete old accounts
Cons
Full scan takes a long time
Active scans use enough resources to cause issues on older computers
Poor VPN performance
Founded in 1987, McAfee has had some difficulties in its journey. It briefly became part of Intel before becoming its own company again, and it even became infamous after releasing a bad update that crippled millions of computers in 2010. But it's always found its way back to providing top-notch antivirus software.Why we like itDuring my hands-on review, I found McAfee's antivirus software very easy to use. Running it in the background had no effect on my everyday activities, and scans used a small enough percentage of resources for me to continue those activities without issues. Moreover, McAfee consistently receives high marks in all three categories measured by AV-Test (security, usability and performance) and has received numerous awards from AV-Comparatives. This proves McAfee's ability to effectively protect your devices from a variety of malware.Along with the core antivirus software, the McAfee Plus Premium package gives you web protection for warding off malicious websites, a password manager and VPN. You'll also get a Social Privacy Manager and Personal Data Cleanup to protect your information online and remove it from untrustworthy sites. I was particularly impressed with the Online Account Manager, which helped me find hundreds of accounts connected to my email address and gave me tools to easily shut them down. I also appreciate that McAfee offers protection for unlimited devices, as opposed to the five- or 10-device limits imposed by other antivirus programs.Who it's best forMcAfee is your best choice if you want effective antivirus protection for more than 10 devices without spending a fortune to get it.Who should look elsewhereMcAfee's scans use up a lot of CPU power -- 50% to 60% -- and the deep scans take much longer than comparable scans I've run using other antivirus programs. This means it may not be the best antivirus for users who regularly perform tasks like video editing and may need to perform these high-resource activities while running scans. I recommend Bitdefender or Norton if you're looking for a resource-light antivirus that still provides excellent protection and comes bundled with a variety of cybersecurity tools.McAfee's VPN also has issues, significantly slowing down my internet during my tests. That said, I encountered similar problems with all the VPNs connected to the antivirus software I've tested, so you'll have to buy a separate VPN if you want both excellent privacy and excellent performance. We recommend ExpressVPN for both its performance and its commitment to privacy.Finally, McAfee's privacy policies give McAfee a lot of leeway in how it shares your information with a wide range of third parties. You may want to consider one of the other companies on this list if you're deeply concerned about privacy.PricingMcAfee Plus Premium costs $45 for the first year and $150 a year on renewal. If you only have one device to protect, you can purchase the Basic plan for $30 in the first year ($90 per year on renewal). However, Basic doesn't include the best McAfee features, like the personal data cleanup tool, so the more expensive plans are worthwhile for most users regardless of the number of devices they own.People with significant assets can spring for the Ultimate antivirus and identity protection plan, priced at $200 for the first year and $280 per year afterward. This plan includes identity theft coverage of up to $2 million and $25,000 ransomware coverage, plus investment monitoring.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at McAfee
Specs & Configurations
Price
Best plan starts at $45 for first year; $150 a year on renewalOperating systems
Windows, MacOS, iOS, AndroidMaximum devices covered
UnlimitedStand-out features
Highest-rated antivirus in lab tests, password manager, VPN, online account cleanupRefund period
30 daysFree trial
None
Add to compare
CNET Screenshot
Photo Gallery 1/2
CNET Screenshot
Best cross-platform total security
Norton 360 With LifeLock Select
8.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
Full suite of online security tools, including antivirus, malware ransomware and hacking protection
Covers up to 10 devices on one subscription
Parental controls
Lightweight program with minimal resource usage
Encrypted cloud backups
Cons
Lacks identity theft insurance
Minimal tools for managing where your information is online
Can be difficult to reach a human customer service agent
Poor VPN performance
Norton is another longstanding name in the antivirus space, protecting millions of devices since 1990.Why we like itI found Norton's antivirus remarkably easy to set up and use during my hands-on testing. This antivirus also had remarkably low resource usage, claiming just 1% to 2% of my CPU's processing power during active scans -- over 20% less than both Bitdefender and McAfee. Moreover, Norton LifeLock has consistently earned high marks from AV-Test and AV-Comparatives for virus and malware detection.Norton's performance optimization tools (software updater, file cleanup and startup manager) were similarly efficient, with quick scans and minimal resource usage. The password manager, safe search extension and safe browser were also effective and easy to use.Norton offers something you won't get with other antivirus tools: encrypted cloud backups. This ensures that your data is safe if your device breaks down. This starts at 2GB, which isn't much but could protect most users' essential data (like your tax information), and goes all the way up to 250GB, which is enough to protect most users' entire data collection.Finally, Norton offers a variety of identity protection features, from dark web monitoring to identity theft protection and credit monitoring. You can also get stolen fund reimbursement of up to $25,000 with the highest-tier plan.Who it's best forNorton LifeLock is your best choice if you're completely new to antivirus tech and want something that emphasizes simplicity. Norton's also a great choice if you're looking for cloud backups and want them bundled into your cybersecurity package to minimize the number of bills you need to manage.Who should look elsewhereNorton lacks the digital footprint and online account management tools offered by other top companies like Bitdefender and McAfee. Similarly, you can't get social media monitoring tools from Norton, so it's not an ideal choice if you want something that will help you clean up your overall online presence.Norton's VPN had better performance than most antivirus companies' VPNs, but it still wasn't great, especially when I set it to servers outside of North America. I recommend buying a separate VPN like ExpressVPN if you want to use a VPN without noticeably slowing down your internet.I was also disappointed by Norton's limited identity theft protection. Specifically, the lack of insurance coverage for identity theft puts Norton's highest-tier package behind comparable packages from Bitdefender and McAfee.Customer service also proved less than ideal, with Norton's AI going to great lengths to keep me from speaking to a human. Moreover, when I did get in touch with a person through phone support, I had to repeat my question multiple times before it was understood.PricingA 10-device subscription for Norton 360 with LifeLock Select is $100 for the first year and $190 per year afterwards.For folks that don’t need Norton’s LifeLock protection, Norton 360 Deluxe offers many of the same antivirus features, along with a VPN and password manager, for $50 a month up front ($120 on renewal) and covers five devices. Or, you can grab the budget-friendly Norton 360 Standard, which covers three devices for $40 in the first year and $95 per year on renewal.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Norton
Specs & Configurations
Price
Best plan starts at $100 for first year, $190 a year on renewalOperating systems
Windows, MacOS, iOS, AndroidMaximum devices covered
10Stand-out features
VPN, safe-browsing tools, 100GB of cloud backups, password manager, parental controls, identity theft protectionRefund period
14 days for monthly subscriptions, 60 days for annual subscriptionsFree trial
None
Add to compare
CNET Screenshot
Photo Gallery 1/2
CNET Screenshot
Best antivirus with a free option
AVG Internet Security
7.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
Dashboard is remarkably easy to navigate
Advanced customization for things like privacy settings
Web Shield automatically checks files for malware before you download them
Webcam protection
Cons
Lack of features for managing where your information can be found online
Poor VPN performance
Poor customer service
Concerns around protocols for protecting user data
Founded in the Czech Republic, AVG Internet Security has provided antivirus protection to European computers since 1992, with its services expanding into the US in 1998.Why we like itAVG Internet Security had similar scan speed and resource usage to Norton during my hands-on testing, making it one of the most efficient antivirus tools I tested. AVG's antivirus also has consistently high AV-Test rankings across all categories.Most of AVG's other tools were also highly effective, from the TuneUp program (which helps you clean up your files and processes to improve device performance) to the AntiTrack tool (which opts you out of the biggest ad-tracking programs and blocks additional tracking on websites you visit). The secure browser and safety extension for popular browsers like Chrome can further protect you while surfing the web, though neither one is particularly good at blocking ads.Who it's best forAVG Internet Security can be a good choice if you're looking for a free or highly affordable cybersecurity package that includes both an antivirus and safe browsing tools.Who should look elsewhereAVG Internet Security doesn't include features like dark web monitoring, online account management or digital footprint visualization, making it a poor choice if you're looking to control where and how your data is used online. AVG doesn't offer identity theft protection or insurance either, so you'll want to look to one of the other companies on this list if you have assets to protect.I also had issues with AVG's VPN, which had poor performance, even when compared to other antivirus companies' VPNs. If you're looking for a high-quality VPN, consider purchasing a separate program like ExpressVPN.AVG's customer service further disappointed me, forcing me to jump through multiple hoops before I could speak with a person. It also took an unusually long time for AVG's support representatives to answer my questions. I recommend Bitdefender or McAfee if you're looking for an antivirus with good customer support.Finally, AVG's privacy policies and its connection to Avast -- a company fined $16.5 million by the FTC for selling its customers' data -- give me some concerns about AVG's commitment to protecting user data. If you're concerned about the security of your personal information, I recommend choosing a different antivirus company like Bitdefender or even Malwarebytes, which has the best privacy policy of any antivirus I've tested.PricingYou can get AVG Internet Security for 10 devices for $60 in the first year and $100 a year on renewal. The single-device plan is more affordable at $40 for the first year and $78 per year after.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at AVG
Specs & Configurations
Price
Best plan starts at $60 for the first year; $100 per year on renewalOperating systems
Windows, MacOS, iOS, AndroidMaximum devices covered
10Stand-out features
Advanced customization, webcam protectionRefund period
30 daysFree trial
30 days
Add to compare
CNET Screenshot
Photo Gallery 1/2
CNET Screenshot
Best for maintaining user privacy
Malwarebytes
7.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Top-tier malware removal
Includes Browser Guard for web browsers
Easy to use, customizable interface
Cons
Certain protections only available for Windows
Real-time (preventative) protection isn’t as good as alternatives
Multidevice plans are expensive
Founded in 2004, Malwarebytes started as a tool for removing malware from computers. It has since grown into a full antivirus service with real-time protection and other benefits.Why we like itIf you're looking for an antivirus company that truly commits to protecting its users' data, look no further than Malwarebytes. Malwarebytes' VPN is a true no-logs VPN with RAM-only, diskless servers that don't store any user data in a permanent way. Malwarebytes' other programs collect slightly more data, but it's limited to what Malwarebytes needs to continuously run and update its software to protect against new threats. Moreover, Malwarebytes has strict limitations on the third parties it will share your data with. While this does include public authorities, Malwarebytes is adamant that it will only do this if compelled, and it won't share your data with the same range of marketing and advertising companies that other antivirus companies share information with.The software itself is also highly efficient, using even less disk CPU power than other low-resource antivirus tools like AVG and completing regular scans within five minutes during my hands-on testing. The deep scans took longer -- around 40 minutes -- but not nearly as long as McAfee's full scans. Other Malwarebytes tools were similarly effective, with dark web scanning bringing up dozens of breaches going back years. Malwarebytes' VPN also had significantly less impact on my internet speed than most other VPNs created by antivirus companies, though it still didn't perform as well as something like ExpressVPN.Who it's best forMalwarebytes is your best choice if you want to get antivirus protection without compromising your privacy.Who should look elsewhereMalwarebytes' interface isn't particularly easy to navigate, with scan scheduling hidden away and no built-in deep scan feature (you have to set up your own deep scans with the custom scan option). This makes it a poor choice for folks who aren't technically inclined.Furthermore, Malwarebytes' third-party test results are mixed. It hasn't performed well in its most recent AV-Test and AV-Comparatives tests, but it did receive a 2025 Product of the Year Award from AVLab Cybersecurity Foundation. The AVLab Cybersecurity Foundation is a reputable organization with membership in the Anti-Malware Testing Standards Organization, but you may still want to consider another program if you're not fully confident in the AVLab Cybersecurity Foundation's results.Finally, Malwarebytes' customer service is remarkably frustrating. The knowledge base -- the one aspect of customer service tech companies almost universally get right -- lacks multimedia content on most pages, the live chat representatives can be slow to answer even simple questions, email support is slow, and phone support doesn't exist. Consider Bitdefender or McAfee if good customer support is important to you.PricingYou can get protection and disinfection for one device for $45 per year. For access to the full security suite, you'll pay $120 in the first year and $240 per year on renewal, with coverage for one device. Additional fees are charged for each additional device attached to your Malwarebytes plan.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Malwarebytes
Specs & Configurations
Price
Basic plan starts at $45 per year for one device; $5 per additional device per yearOperating systems
Windows, MacOS, iOS, AndroidMaximum devices covered
No limit, but price increases with every device addedStand-out features
Top-notch malware scanning and removalRefund period
60 daysFree trial
Perma-free version is available with some limitations
Add to compareBest antivirus software compared
Company Antivirus featuresSafe browsing toolsOnline identity protection toolsFinancial identity protection toolsMaximum devicesAntivirus priceBase security suite priceMicrosoft Defender Manual scans, automated scans, real-time protectionN/AN/AN/AUnlimitedFree on all Windows devicesN/AMcAfee Manual scans, automated scans, scan scheduling, comprehensive real-time protectionVPN, Web Protection extension, Scam Detector, Password ManagerSocial media privacy manager, online account manager, personal information scannerIdentity theft insurance, credit monitoring, and investment monitoring on advanced plansUnlimited$30 for the first year, $90 per year after$45 for the first year, $150 per year afterBitdefender Manual scans, automated scans, scan scheduling, comprehensive real-time protectionVPN, Scam Detector, password manager, ad-blocker and anti-trackerDigital identity protection, data breach detection, dark web monitoring, digital footprint visualization, real time breach notificationsIdentity theft insurance, credit monitoring, and investment monitoring on advanced plansFive$25 for the first year, $50 per year after$60 for the first year, $110 per year afterNorton 360 with Lifelock Manual scans, automated scans, scan scheduling, comprehensive real-time protectionVPN, Scam Detector, parental controlsDark web monitoring, privacy monitorIdentity theft insurance, credit monitoring, social security monitoring10$30 for the first year, $60 per year after$100 for the first year; $190 per year afterAVG Internet Security Manual scans, automated scans, scan scheduling, device performance scanning and optimization, some real-time protectionMalicious site blockerN/AN/A10$40 for the first year; $78 per year after $60 for the first year; $100 per year afterMalwarebytes Manual scans, automated scans, scan scheduling, some real-time protectionBrowser safety extension for blocking malicious sites, VPNDigital identity protection, dark web monitoring,
social media monitoring, personal data removerUp to $2 million in identity theft insurance, credit reportingUnlimited (but fees increase based on device numbers)$45 per year$120 for the first year; $240 per year after
Factors to consider when choosing antivirus software
Picking the best antivirus software means finding one that keeps your PC or mobile device safe, doesn't consume a lot of system resources, is easy to use and stays out of the way until you need it. Here's what to look for.EffectivenessAntivirus software runs scans for known malware and can offer real-time protection. It can watch for shady websites and suspicious links to keep you out of trouble. It can also offer ransomware protection and monitor unexpected behavior that may be a sign of new and not-yet-identified viruses and malware. You want antivirus software that can successfully identify these unknown online threats without flagging too many false positives.You can determine an antivirus software’s effectiveness by checking out its detection rate in tests performed by labs like AV-Test and AV-Comparatives. Look for software with high security rankings and an online detection rate of at least 90%.Light on system resourcesYou don't want antivirus software that taxes your PC's resources, like CPU power. The antivirus shouldn't slow your computer down at all while running in the background or have a significant impact on your ability to perform everyday tasks when running active scans.Scans also shouldn't take a long time (more than 10 minutes for a regular scan or one hour for a deep or full scan). Similarly, additional tools should have minimal impact on the performance of your device or the specific program (like a browser) those tools are connected to.While we do consider performance in all of our antivirus reviews, a program's impact on your device may be different. The good news is that most antivirus programs offer either a free trial or a money-back guarantee, so you can test out how they work on your setup with minimal risk.Cost and discountsDon't just pay the sticker price for antivirus protection. Before you buy, check for discounts on a company's website. You can also trim your cost with smaller antivirus packages if you need to cover three or five devices rather than, say, 10. You may also find discounts on an app's Amazon page or at outlets like Best Buy.Pay close attention to renewal costs. Most antivirus tools charge annual fees and only offer discounts for the first year, though you may be able to get a discount by paying for two years upfront. These promotional prices might lead to you paying as much as double the original amount for the following years.Bundled servicesAntivirus software may come bundled with other security tools like a password manager and a VPN. Buying a security suite with all of these tools lets you manage everything from one account, saving you hassle and money.However, the VPNs in these security bundles aren’t always the best tools available. You may want to purchase separate subscriptions or choose a VPN with antivirus if privacy is a major concern.PrivacyTo be effective, antivirus software needs to monitor what's going on with your PC, check in with company servers about unusual behavior and provide sound banking protection. It's important to protect yourself by making sure the company you work with has protocols for pseudonymizing or anonymizing data so it's not connected to your identity and encrypting all information -- especially anything that can't be disconnected from your identity.You'll also want to consider the number and types of disclosures the company's privacy policy allows, which dictate what third parties it may give your information to.Protection for other platformsMany of us have our important data spread across multiple devices with different operating systems. This makes it important to choose an antivirus that can protect all of these devices. Pay close attention to any features that are limited to a specific operating system.Customer serviceThe best antivirus companies offer 24/7 customer service via live chat, phone and support ticket, with fast and helpful representatives. We test all of these methods of communication during our reviews to help you get a sense of the company's overall commitment to customer support.Issues with AvastIn test after test, Avast Antivirus for Windows performed well for malware detection, with options ranging from Avast free antivirus software to Avast Premium Security. We've included its antivirus in our list of recommended security app options before.However, early in 2024, the Federal Trade Commission fined Avast $16.5 million to settle charges that claimed the company had sold customer browsing information to more than 100 third parties from 2014 to 2020. Avast allegedly collected the data through browser extensions and antivirus software and sold the data through its Jumpshot subsidiary, the FTC claims. As part of the settlement, Avast is prohibited from selling or licensing any web browsing data for advertising purposes.In response to the initial reports in 2020, then-Avast CEO Ondřej Vlček said in a statement that he understood his company's actions raised questions of trust. To address that, Avast terminated Jumpshot data collection in January 2020 and closed its operations. We hope the FTC actions mean that there will be no further Jumpshot-style activities and that Avast returns to glory as one of the best antivirus software options. Until then, we recommend using one of the many other solid choices in this realm (listed above). Issues with KasperskyLet's talk about Kaspersky Lab, specifically about the June 2024 federal ban prohibiting Kaspersky from directly or indirectly selling antivirus or cybersecurity software or services in the US or to US citizens. This sweeping ban follows a more limited one in 2017 that prohibited Kaspersky software and services on federal government computers because of alleged ties between Kaspersky and the Russian government.Based in Moscow, Kaspersky Lab has for years produced some of the highest-rated antivirus software for business antivirus needs and home customers. Its software consistently earned top scores and awards for virus and malware detection and endpoint protection from independent testing labs.“Russia has shown time and again they have the capability and intent to exploit Russian companies, like Kaspersky Lab, to collect and weaponize sensitive US information, and we will continue to use every tool at our disposal to safeguard US national security and the American people," Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo said in the official announcement of the ban.In a statement, Kaspersky said it "does not engage in activities which threaten US national security and, in fact, has made significant contributions with its reporting and protection from a variety of threat actors that targeted US interests and allies." How we test antivirus software
Our research process starts with looking at each antivirus company's website to evaluate its features, additional security tools (like VPNs) and pricing to determine its overall value. We also consider the operating systems and number of devices each antivirus tool can protect, prioritizing tools that can protect all of your computers and mobile devices.If our initial research shows that a company provides a broad range of high-value security tools, or an affordable antivirus with robust features, we move on to hands-on testing. This involves purchasing a plan, installing all of the suite's security tools, and testing each tool for performance (the percentage of resources used and speed of scans) and usability (ease of use).Finally, we analyze the company's commitment to its customers. This begins with thoroughly reviewing the company's privacy policies to determine what user data it keeps, how it protects that data and what types/how many third parties it shares that data with, giving higher rankings to companies that minimize data collection and sharing. We then move on to testing the customer service by reaching out via live chat, phone and email (when available), using the experience to evaluate the speed and helpfulness of each company's customer support team. Other antivirus software we've tested
In addition to the antivirus apps we recommend, a handful of other antimalware tools are worth considering among the best antivirus protection if you find them at a better price or just prefer to use one over our picks above.AviraAvira's antivirus technology consistently receives excellent AV-Test results and AV-Comparatives awards. I was also impressed by the antivirus's fast, efficient scans during my hands-on testing. I especially appreciate that you can get this antivirus, along with Avira's safe browsing tools, for free.Unfortunately, Avira is also frustrating to set up. Plus, the company also has business practices -- like installing a secondary performance optimization program without permission or prompting -- and privacy policies that leave me very concerned about how much information it collects and what it does with this data. This includes a policy of tracking IP addresses of VPN users, which opens the door to reverse-engineering other VPN usage data the company claims it doesn't track, and a willingness to share that information with public authorities.Moreover, Avira has some of the worst customer service I've experienced when testing antivirus software. Live chat was great, but phone service was unhelpful, and I didn't even receive a response from email support. Combined with the privacy policy issues, this makes it difficult to recommend Avira. All of this makes Avira's premium plan a poor choice -- but Avira can still be worth considering if you're looking for free antivirus software.Trend Micro Maximum SecurityThis antivirus provider may not be as well known to consumers because of its focus on enterprise security, but Trend Micro antivirus security also brings its business expertise to the home with its Trend Micro Maximum Security tools.Trend Micro's software earns high marks from AV-Test, consistently scoring well for detecting zero-day attacks and widespread viruses and malware. Trend Micro also does a good job of not taxing system resources. Trend Micro's antivirus for home users starts at $20 for the first year ($40 per year after).ESET NOD32 AntivirusIf you're looking for something easy to set up and use, ESET NOD32 antivirus may meet your needs. It earns high scores for usability and offers solid virus protection. A five-device option is available for as little as $60 for a year on the base package, with a five-device, one-year plan on its midrange Essential tier running $70. ESET NOD32 has a 30-day free trial so you can try before you buy. Best antivirus FAQ
Which software is best for antivirus?
The best antivirus software is Bitdefender. Our hands-on testing found that Bitdefender has a wide range of features, a user-friendly interface and excellent performance.
Show more
Which antivirus program is 100% effective?
Both Norton and McAfee have achieved 100% malware detection during third-party testing from AV-Test. However, new malware is created every day, and lab conditions can’t perfectly replicate real-world conditions, so the same results are unlikely in real life. Following basic internet safety best practices is essential regardless of the antivirus software you’re using.
Show more
Which is better, Norton or McAfee?
Norton is better if you’re looking for a total security suite. The Norton 360 subscription includes high-quality antivirus software, a password manager and VPN, safe browsing tools, parental controls and 50GB of cloud storage. You can also get some identity theft protection features and 250GB of cloud storage if you get the most expensive Norton plan. Plus, Norton had better user-friendliness and performance in our hands-on testing.However, McAfee can be more useful for users with significant assets, as it provides up to $2 million in identity theft insurance. McAfee's plans also cover unlimited devices, which makes it a good choice if you have more than 10 devices to protect.
Show more
Is Windows Defender better than Norton?
Microsoft Defender -- formerly Windows Defender -- provides good security for most users, but it only had a 98.8% malware detection rate in the most recent tests conducted by AV-Test. Norton had a 100% malware detection rate in its most recent tests, proving that Norton is better than Windows Defender.
Show more
Can antivirus protect against phishing?
To a degree, yes. Some antivirus programs can do things like warn you or block you from visiting a suspected phishing site. Others may automatically block suspicious emails that appear to come from a malicious sender or contain phrasing common in phishing emails. However, you cannot count on an antivirus program to be a failsafe solution for phishing protection. You still need to be vigilant and know what to look out for on your own when it comes to phishing because an antivirus program won't be able to catch everything.
Show more
Will antivirus slow down my computer?
Any program running on your computer will require a certain amount of processing power to work, which can affect your computer's overall performance. If an antivirus program is just running in the background, it shouldn't affect your computer's performance. When actively running a scan of your system, antivirus software can noticeably slow down your computer. If this is the case, try scheduling antivirus scans at night, or at a time when you're not using your computer.
Show more
Does my Mac need antivirus?
There is a common misconception that Macs are inherently immune to malware, but the truth is that most malware simply wasn’t created to target Macs due to their limited market share. As Macs continue growing in popularity, they're increasingly attractive targets for cybercriminals looking to deploy malware designed for the MacOS operating system. MacOS has a built-in antivirus solution called XProtect that can detect and remove malware. It works in the background and updates automatically to keep up with the latest threats, but it still may not catch everything that a third-party antivirus program will. So if you want to play it safe and boost the malware protection on your Mac, it's a good idea to add a third-party antivirus solution.
Show more
Recent updates
In our July 2025 update, we:Moved Bitdefender to first place, replacing McAfee, due to hands-on testing results based on tests conducted in May 2025Added notes from hands-on CNET testing to listings for Bitdefender, McAfee, Norton, AVG and MalwarebytesUpdated Factors to Consider and How We Test information to reflect new testing processes established in May 2025Moved Avira from the main best list to Other Antivirus Tools We've Tested due to concerns around user privacy and customer service
About the Author
Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert Dianna Gunn Web Hosting Expert
Dianna Gunn built her first WordPress website in 2008. Since then, she's poured thousands of hours into understanding how websites and online businesses work. She's shared what she's learned on blogs like ThemeIsle, BloggingPro and DomainWheel. She now works for CNET as a Web Hosting Expert, creating in-depth guides on web hosting and reviewing the top web hosting companies to help folks preparing to build a website for the first time.
Read full bio
Also written by
Clifford Colby Former Managing EditorAlso written by
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.