The Moon is rusting — thanks to ‘wind’ blown all the way from Earth
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
22 September 2025
The Moon is rusting — thanks to ‘wind’ blown all the way from Earth
Lunar minerals generate the rust mineral hematite when bombarded with high-energy oxygen particles, experiments show.
By
Alexandra Witze0
Alexandra Witze
Alexandra Witze writes for Nature from Boulder, Colorado.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
A stream of charged particles that blows from Earth (foreground) to the Moon could account for the rust compounds found in lunar soils. Credit: Tetra Images/AlamyThe Moon is rusting – and it’s Earth’s fault.Scientists have found that oxygen particles blown from Earth to the Moon can turn lunar minerals into hematite, also known as rust1. The discovery adds to researchers’ growing understanding of the deep interconnection between Earth and the Moon — and shows how the Moon keeps a geological record of those interactions, says Ziliang Jin, a planetary scientist at Macau University of Science and Technology in China. He and his colleagues reported their findings earlier this month in Geophysical Research Letters.Most of the time, both Earth and the Moon are bathed in a stream of charged particles emanating from the Sun. But for around five days each month, Earth passes between the Sun and the Moon, blocking most of the flood of solar particles. During that time, the Moon is exposed mainly to particles that had been part of Earth’s atmosphere before blowing into space — a phenomenon known as Earth wind.That wind contains ions of various elements, including hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen. When those charged particles hit the Moon, they can implant themselves into the upper layers of lunar soil2 and trigger chemical reactions.In 2020, scientists reported that India’s Chandrayaan-1 mission had spotted hematite near the Moon’s poles3. Hematite is an iron-rich mineral that can form when rocks react with water and oxygen. But the Moon’s chemical environment isn’t conducive to the presence of oxygen, meaning that the oxygen for the hematite might have arrived from somewhere else. The 2020 paper’s authors proposed that it might have arrived in the Earth wind.Experimental supportJin and his colleagues decided to test that idea in the laboratory. They simulated the Earth wind by accelerating hydrogen and oxygen ions to high energies. They then sent the ions whizzing into single crystals of iron-rich minerals that are known to exist on the Moon.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03051-2
ReferencesZeng, X. et al. Geophys. Res. Lett. 52, e2025GL116170 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Terada, K. et al. Nature Astron. 1, 0026 (2017).Article
Google Scholar
Li, S. et al. Sci. Adv. 6, eaba1940 (2020).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
First rocks returned from Moon’s far side reveal ancient volcanic activity
Private spacecraft nails Moon landing: first images of Blue Ghost on the lunar surface
Meet the ice-hunting robots headed for the Moon right now
Subjects
Planetary science
Geochemistry
Astronomy and astrophysics
Latest on:
Planetary science
Late fluid flow in a primitive asteroid revealed by Lu–Hf isotopes in Ryugu
Article 10 SEP 25
Redox-driven mineral and organic associations in Jezero Crater, Mars
Article 10 SEP 25
Mystery Martian minerals hint at the planet’s complex geochemical past
News & Views 10 SEP 25
Geochemistry
Mystery Martian minerals hint at the planet’s complex geochemical past
News & Views 10 SEP 25
Late fluid flow in a primitive asteroid revealed by Lu–Hf isotopes in Ryugu
Article 10 SEP 25
Redox-driven mineral and organic associations in Jezero Crater, Mars
Article 10 SEP 25
Astronomy and astrophysics
How a mentoring connection boosted my ambitions for a science career
Career Column 19 SEP 25
Stratified wind from a super-Eddington X-ray binary is slower than expected
Article 17 SEP 25
Rare comet photobombs telescope’s view of the cosmos
Research Highlight 16 SEP 25
Jobs
postdoctoral researcher
Molecular Mechanisms and Neural Circuits of Fear Memory, Maternal and Social Behavior. A recent PhD in molecular biology / neuroscience.
Piscataway, New Jersey
Rutgers University Shumyatsky lab
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology Organisation: Nature Portfolio  Location: New York or Madrid  Application Deadline: Oc...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing Applicatio...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Department of Cell and Systems Biology University of Miami | Miller School of Medicine, Miami FL   The Department of Cell and Systems Biology at ...
University of Miami, Miami
University of Miami - Department of Cell and Systems Biology
Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience
Postdoctoral fellow at Tulane University Neuroscience, Cerebrovascular, Ischemia, Dementia, Traumatic brain injury.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University - neuroscience and stroke research
Related Articles
First rocks returned from Moon’s far side reveal ancient volcanic activity
Private spacecraft nails Moon landing: first images of Blue Ghost on the lunar surface
Meet the ice-hunting robots headed for the Moon right now
Subjects
Planetary science
Geochemistry
Astronomy and astrophysics
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited