Trump team backs an unproven drug for autism — but does it work?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
23 September 2025
Trump team backs an unproven drug for autism — but does it work?
Leucovorin would be available only to a minority of autistic people, and has not been tested for safety or effectiveness in a large trial. Some researchers are worried.
By
Heidi Ledford
Heidi Ledford
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Globes of folinic acid, also called leucovorin, which Trump team officials have promoted as an intervention for autism.Credit: Alfred Pasieka/Science Photo LibraryAccording to Martin Makary, head of the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the drug leucovorin will help “hundreds of thousands of kids” with autism. But a day after Makary praised leucovorin’s powers at a White House event, some specialists are warning that the science to warrant Makary’s enthusiasm is far from solid.Those researchers say that the drug’s efficacy has not been established, that scientists don’t know how much of the drug to give or how people should take it, and that safety data in children are lacking. According to the FDA’s current plans, leucovorin will be available to only a minority of autistic people.All of this has led to widespread confusion, say clinicians, who also worry about the expectations created by Makary and other officials in the administration of US president Donald Trump.“I’ve heard from a lot of families,” says psychologist Catherine Lord at the University of California, Los Angeles. “The major thing they say is, ‘What is this? What do we do?’” “I don’t want to get everyone’s hopes up that this is a magic cure,” says Rebecca Schmidt, a molecular epidemiologist at the University of California, Davis. “It’s not for everybody.”Vitamin in the spotlightAt an announcement on 22 September, Makary announced the upcoming approval of leucovorin, a form of the vitamin folate, by saying it would “open the door to the first FDA-recognized treatment pathway for autism”. People with low levels of folate in the protective fluid surrounding the brain and spine can sometimes exhibit traits associated with autism, including challenges in social communication. This condition, called cerebral folate deficiency, could be due to rogue antibodies that attack the body’s own proteins – in this case, proteins that ensure import of folate into the brain.Trump links autism and Tylenol: is there any truth to it?There have been clinical trials of leucovorin, also called folinic acid, in autism, but the studies to date have been small. For example, one recent clinical trial enrolled about 80 children aged 2 to 10, and provided folinic acid supplements to about half of the participants1. Neither the participants nor their physicians knew who received the supplement and who received a placebo. Participants who received the supplement reported greater improvements in social interactions and language skills than those who received the placebo.After the trial was published, some researchers subsequently raised concerns that the assessment of those improvements was subjective, and that the study was too small to detect subtle differences in response2.Call for bigger trials But size is not the only thing that matters in clinical trials, says Dan Rossignol, a family physician in Aliso Viejo, California, who has studied the data on leucovorin and sometimes prescribes it to autistic children. The effect of leucovorin in the trials has been large enough to be apparent even with small numbers of participants, he says. Specifically, Rossignol points to an early leucovorin clinical study, in which only 48 children participated but some experienced marked improvements in a standardized assessment of speech3.“But it would be great if more studies were done with more kids,” he says. “Then we could tease out which kids respond better.” Typically, studies submitted for FDA approval of a drug for autism might have data from hundreds of children, he says, but it has been difficult to raise the money for bigger trials. Rossignol says that he and a colleague have been in discussions with US President Donald Trump’s administration to make the case for leucovorin.On Monday, the Trump administration said the US National Institutes of Health plans to monitor the effects of the FDA’s anticipated approval and to study possible broader benefits of leucovorin in autistic people. No details have been released as to how such studies will be designed.Not a magic bulletRegardless of the therapy’s efficacy, it will not be a panacea. The FDA’s proposed approval, which has not yet been finalized, would apply only to people with low levels of folate in the fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord. That represents about 7—30% of autistic people, depending on how folate levels are measured, says Alycia Halladay, chief science officer of the Autism Science Foundation in New York City. “Families are in the Facebook groups saying, ‘We can get a prescription now’,” she says. “And that’s not what’s going to happen.”Autism is complex and thought to be caused by a wide range of factors. No single therapy is likely to apply to all autistic people. “If anyone tells you they have found a magic bullet cure for autism, doubt them,” says Halladay. “There is not going to be one cause and one singular treatment.”Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?The lack of data from large trials means that doctors will have little to go on when determining what dose to prescribe, or how long children should take leucovorin before deciding if it is or is not working, says Halladay. “We hope there’s eventually going to be guidance,” she says. Rossignol says that most of the clinical studies of leucovorin in autistic children have used the same dose, which could provide a starting point for physicians.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03103-7With additional reporting by Helen Pearson
ReferencesPanda, P. K. et al. Eur. J. Pediatr. 183, 4827-4835 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Castro, K. & Marchezan, J. Eur. J. Pediatr. 184, 352 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Frye, R. E. et al. Molec. Psychiatry 23, 247-256 (2018).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Trump links autism and Tylenol: is there any truth to it?
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
Cells that trim brain connections are linked to autism
Vaccine sceptic RFK Jr is now a powerful force in US science: what will he do?
Subjects
Autism spectrum disorders
Medical research
Brain
Latest on:
Autism spectrum disorders
Medical research
Brain
Trump links autism and Tylenol: is there any truth to it?
News 22 SEP 25
CRISPR activation for SCN2A-related neurodevelopmental disorders
Article 17 SEP 25
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
News Feature 26 AUG 25
What research might be lost after the NIH’s cuts? Nature trained a bot to find out
Nature Index 24 SEP 25
Boosting immune cells to combat cancer using CRISPR engineering and large-scale in vivo testing
News & Views 24 SEP 25
A drug–diet combination could improve childhood cancer treatment
News & Views 24 SEP 25
Tylenol is over 130 years old — why is it still the gold-standard painkiller?
News 24 SEP 25
The ‘near-telepathic’ device that puts AI in your head
News 18 SEP 25
Years of hits to the head prime the brain for decline
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
The School of Life Science and Technology (SLST) invites applications for numerous tenure-track and tenured positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
Trump links autism and Tylenol: is there any truth to it?
Autism is on the rise: what’s really behind the increase?
Cells that trim brain connections are linked to autism
Vaccine sceptic RFK Jr is now a powerful force in US science: what will he do?
Subjects
Autism spectrum disorders
Medical research
Brain
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited