Jimmy Kimmel Returns: Hollywood and Political Leaders React - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Entertainment
Jimmy Kimmel is back after a huge backlash. Here's what comedians, politicians, and celebs are saying about his return.
By
Kelsey Vlamis
,
Lucia Moses
, and
Aditi Bharade
Celebrities, business leaders, and politicians react to Jimmy Kimmel being returned to the airwaves.
Julia Nikhinson/AP, Richard Shotwell/AP, Jae C. Hong/Invision/AP
2025-09-23T08:32:30Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Jimmy Kimmel's show is returning to the air after being pulled last week by Disney-owned ABC.
Ben Stiller and Gov. Gavin Newsom were among the prominent figures celebrating the news.
The decision to pull the show faced backlash, including protests and boycott calls.
Less than a week after his show was pulled from the air, Jimmy Kimmel is set to make his return to late-night.Celebrities and politicians reacted to the news after the Walt Disney Company, which owns ABC, said "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" would air again on Tuesday.
ABC had announced on Wednesday last week that the show would be pulled off the air indefinitely following comments Kimmel made after the death of right-wing activist Charlie Kirk. The suspension came after pressure from FCC Chair Brendan Carr and the media company Nexstar, which owns ABC affiliate stations.While President Donald Trump celebrated the initial decision, it was also met with protests and calls to boycott Disney.On Monday, Disney said it decided to return Kimmel to the air.
Here's how celebrities and other prominent figures reacted to the news.
Get caught up on the fallout over Jimmy Kimmel’s suspension:A $6.2 billion deal loomed over Jimmy Kimmel's suspensionBeyond Kimmel: The soft pressure that's silencing businessJimmy Kimmel is returning to ABC on Tuesday, Disney saysWe went to the protest over Jimmy Kimmel’s suspension. It got so big, Disney shut its gates.
Stephen Colbert
Stephen Colbert said he was once again the only martyr of late night shows.
Scott Kowalchyk/CBS via Getty Images
Stephen Colbert welcomed Kimmel back to the late-night scene in an episode of "The Late Show" on Monday."Just a few hours before we taped this broadcast, we got word that our long national late-night nightmare is over, because Disney announced that 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' will return to air on ABC tomorrow, Tuesday night," he said, to loud cheers and applause from the audience.He then joked that he was once again the only one getting canceled. CBS will stop airing his show after May 2026."Once more, I am the only martyr in late night. Unless, wait, CBS, you want to announce anything?" he said, to laughter from the crowd.
Jon Stewart
Jon Stewart said Americans need to "fight like hell" for their constitutional right to free speech.
Scott Kowalchyk/CBS via Getty Images
Jon Stewart said Kimmel's return to late-night showed Americans need to "fight like hell" for their right to free speech.In a Monday episode of "The Daily Show," Stewart said Trump was "using all the levers of government" to punish his opponents."So you can get on board with that and say, I'm with that, or you can join the rest of us and fight like hell for this constitutional republic," he said.Stewart added that the public's backlash against Disney's decision had worked in bringing the show back.
Ben Stiller
Ben Stiller previously said that Jimmy Kimmel's show being suspended was not right.
Gilbert Flores/Variety via Getty Images
Comedian Ben Stiller reshared the news that Kimmel was returning to the air with several celebratory emojis in a post on X.Stiller has previously said on X that pulling Kimmel's show from the air wasn't right.
California Gov. Gavin Newsom
Gavin Newsom called out FCC Chair Brendan Carr.
Genaro Molina/Los Angeles Times via Getty Images
California Gov. Gavin Newsom reacted to the news on X in a post that called out Carr."Thank you to everyone but @BrendanCarrFCC. This is a win for free speech everywhere," the post said.
FCC Chair Brendan Carr
Brendan Carr said the FCC was trying to "empower local TV stations to serve the needs of the local communities."
John Lamparski/Getty Images for Concordia Annual Summit
When reached by Business Insider to comment on Kimmel's show returning to air, Carr referred to comments he made earlier in the day at the Concordia Summit in New York City.Carr said the FCC was trying to "empower local TV stations to serve the needs of the local communities."He said national programmers, such as Disney and ABC, have had too much control over the local TV stations that air their content, and that the local stations don't feel like they can push back even when the programming is not a good fit for their communities.Carr said the Kimmel situation was an example of those local stations standing up. He said the idea that the FCC threatened to revoke the licenses of Disney and ABC if they did not fire Kimmel was false."A lot of the last couple of days can be boiled down, at least in my view, to projection and distortion," he said.
Zohran Mamdani
Zohran Mamdani also said his team was working to reschedule a town hall with ABC that he had pulled out of over Kimmel's suspension.
Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
"Last week, Disney/ABC caved to Trump administration pressure. Millions of Americans helped them find their backbone," Zohran Mamdani, the Democratic candidate for mayor of New York City, said in a post on X. "Whether you watch Jimmy Kimmel or not, today's decision is a victory for free speech."Mamdani also said his team was working to reschedule a town hall with ABC that he had pulled out of over Kimmel's suspension.
Sinclair
Sinclair Broadcasting Group, Inc., which owns ABC affiliate stations, said it would not be returning Kimmel to the air.
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
In a statement posted to X, Sinclair Broadcasting Group, Inc., which owns ABC affiliate stations, said it would not be returning Kimmel to the air."Beginning Tuesday night, Sinclair will be preempting 'Jimmy Kimmel Live!' across our ABC affiliate stations and replacing it with news programming," the company said on X. "Discussions with ABC are ongoing as we evaluate the show's potential return."
Turning Point USA spokesman
Andrew Kolvet was also an executive producer on Charlie Kirk's podcast.
PATRICK T. FALLON/AFP via Getty Images
Andrew Kolvet, spokesman for Turning Point USA, the conservative organization founded by Charlie Kirk, responded to the news in a post on X."Disney and ABC caving and allowing Kimmel back on the air is not surprising, but it's their mistake to make," he wrote. "Nextstar and Sinclair do not have to make the same choice."Kolvet was also an executive producer on Charlie Kirk's podcast.
Mark Hamill
Mark Hamill responded to the news on Threads.
Kevin Winter/Getty Images
Mark Hamill, the actor best known for playing Luke Skywalker in "Star Wars," shared a screenshot of a news story with the headline "KIMMEL BACK!" in a post on Threads, writing, "Meltdown on 'Truth' Social in 5... 4... 3... 2..."Peter Kafka contributed to this reporting.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account