Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg Reveals New Ray-Ban Display Glasses | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
Meta Just Unveiled New Smart Glasses With an Embedded Display — and an iPhone 17 Price Point. Here's How They Work.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg gave the keynote address at the Meta Connect event on Wednesday in Menlo Park, California.
By
Sherin Shibu
Edited by
Melissa Malamut
Sep 18, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg revealed the company's new Ray-Ban Display smart glasses, featuring a neural wristband and a small screen on the bottom right lens.
At the Meta Connect event, Zuckerberg also announced a new pair of sporty Oakley Vanguard glasses and updates to the company's original Ray-Ban glasses.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg gave the keynote address at Meta Connect on Wednesday, revealing a trio of new smart glasses. The products have been a hit with consumers — the tech giant has sold more than two million pairs of its Ray-Ban glasses since it launched in October 2023."It is no surprise that AI glasses are taking off," Zuckerberg said at the event. "The sales trajectory that we've seen is similar to some of the most popular consumer electronics of all time."The product that took center stage was the Meta Ray-Ban Display, an entirely new pair of glasses ($799) that has a small screen on the bottom right lens and comes with an accompanying neural wristband that tracks hand movements as commands. The screen allows the user to look at messages, take video calls where they can see the person on the other end, see walking directions, watch Instagram Reels, and get a preview of pictures before taking them.
Related: Are Apple Smart Glasses in the Works? Apple Is Eyeing Meta's Ray-Ban Success Story, According to a New Report.Only the person wearing the glasses is able to see the display, and they can turn off the screen when it is not in use. The user controls the display through the wristband, which allows them to click, scroll, and write out messages with different hand gestures. For example, tapping the thumb and index finger together plays music. The glasses also allow users to generate a live transcription of the speech around them, which they can view on the screen.
Zuckerberg said the screen enables people to "put subtitles on the world."Related: Amazon Is Developing Smart Glasses for Consumers to Take on Meta's Bestselling Ray-BansThe Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses function for six hours on a single charge, and the case adds up to 30 hours of battery life. The water-resistant wristband has 18 hours of power. The glasses and the wristband are sold together and will hit shelves in the U.S. on September 30 at retailers like Best Buy, LensCrafters, and Sunglass Hut.Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg wears a pair of Meta Ray-Ban Display AI glasses with an accompanying neural wristband at Meta Connect 2025. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images
At $799, the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses are priced more like a smartphone substitute than an AI accessory. For comparison, the iPhone 17, which Apple announced earlier this month, starts at $799, while the Samsung Galaxy S25, announced in January, is priced a little bit higher at $859.Other smart glasses with built-in displays, like the $269 RayNeo Air 3s and the $429 Rokid Max 2, are hundreds of dollars cheaper — but don't include a neural wristband.Related: Here's Why Meta's Earnings Were Better-Than-Expected, According to CEO Mark ZuckerbergZuckerberg also revealed updated Ray-Bans ($379) with double the battery life, improved cameras, and an $80 price hike. The glasses allow users to take photos and videos, make calls, listen to music, and send text messages through voice commands. Facebook's founder also introduced the new $499 Oakley Vanguard glasses, which feature water resistance and a centered camera. These glasses, which join the $400 Oakley Meta HSTN introduced earlier this year as another Meta offering from the Oakley brand, start shipping on October 21.
Meta's smart glasses partner, EssilorLuxottica, stated in July in an earnings report that revenue from the Ray-Ban Meta frames unexpectedly tripled over the past year, making the glasses the No. 1 bestselling frames on the market.The partnership between Meta and EssilorLuxottica is so lucrative that Meta acquired a stake worth $3.5 billion in the eyewear company in July.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg gave the keynote address at Meta Connect on Wednesday, revealing a trio of new smart glasses. The products have been a hit with consumers — the tech giant has sold more than two million pairs of its Ray-Ban glasses since it launched in October 2023."It is no surprise that AI glasses are taking off," Zuckerberg said at the event. "The sales trajectory that we've seen is similar to some of the most popular consumer electronics of all time."The product that took center stage was the Meta Ray-Ban Display, an entirely new pair of glasses ($799) that has a small screen on the bottom right lens and comes with an accompanying neural wristband that tracks hand movements as commands. The screen allows the user to look at messages, take video calls where they can see the person on the other end, see walking directions, watch Instagram Reels, and get a preview of pictures before taking them.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Sherin Shibu
Entrepreneur Staff
News Reporter
Sherin Shibu is a business news reporter at Entrepreneur.com. She previously worked for PCMag, Business Insider, The Messenger, and ZDNET as a reporter and copyeditor. Her areas of coverage encompass tech, business, strategy, finance, and even space. She is a Columbia University graduate.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Franchise
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Cathy Deano co-founded Painting with a Twist at 56 to help her community heal. Seventeen years later, she's still leading the way.
By
Carl Stoffers
Social Media
How To Start a Youtube Channel: Step-by-Step Guide
YouTube can be a valuable way to grow your audience. If you're ready to create content, read more about starting a business YouTube Channel.
By
Jason R. Rich
Science & Technology
7 AI Tools to Build a Profitable One-Person Business That Runs While You Sleep
Smart systems to help solo founders scale fast.
By
Ben Angel
Devices
Grab This $190 MacBook Air for Travel, Meetings, and Working on the Go
A backup MacBook that means business.
By
Entrepreneur Store
Side Hustle
How I Used Side Hustles to Pay Off $40,000 Debt in 1 Year
Marissa Cazem Potts wanted to take control of her financial future.
By
Amanda Breen
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC