I’ve Tested Every Purple Mattress Out There. Here Are My Thoughts on the New Line - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
I’ve Tested Every Purple Mattress Out There. Here Are My Thoughts on the New Line When it comes to unique mattresses, you can't go wrong with Purple. After trying out all the Purple mattresses, even the latest ones, here's what I think about who they might be good for.
Written by
JD Christison
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Jul 24, 2025
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
See at Walmart
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
See at Walmart
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on July 24, 2025 at 10:58 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
JD Christison
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 8.5 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Score Breakdown
Pros and Cons
Pros
Purple mattresses are unique, one-of-a-kind beds
They sleep temperature-neutral or cool
All sleeping positions can find an accommodating bed
Hyrbid options suit all body types
Cons
Purple mattresses are more expensive than your average online bed
They are heavy beds, especially the hybrid models
Table of Contents
I’ve Tested Every Purple Mattress Out There. Here Are My Thoughts on the New Line
First impressions
Purple mattresses' feel and firmness
Purple mattress composition: Each model's makeup
Purple mattress performance
Who is a Purple mattress ideal for?
Purple mattress pricing
Purple mattress policies
Final verdict on the Purple mattress lineup
When it comes to mattresses, you really can't go wrong when you buy one from Purple. It's one of the most popular and unique brands on the internet, offering a completely different take on a comfy sleeping experience. Over the past six years, I’ve tested over 175 online beds, including every version of Purple.I’m checking out five of Purple’s best mattresses from their three collections. I’ll go over how they look, how they feel and their prices. All this data can help you figure out which one might be right for you.Watch CNET video producer Owen Poole review Purple mattresses. Read more: Our Expert Best Mattress RecommendationsFirst impressionsSome of the newer Purple mattresses offer a very different look from what the brand previously put out. The dark gray and purple edges on the Restore and Rejuvenate models give them a luxurious look with a more traditional mattress feel, a plus for those who aren't wild about Purple's trademark gel-like feel.But the Essential collection has the Purple beds that most shoppers expect from the brand: that unique feel and stretchy grid. Between the newer models and those that carry the flagship design, as well as a great range of prices, you've got more choices from Purple than ever.Let's dive into five of Purple's best mattresses: the flagship Purple, Restore Hybrid, RestorePremier Hybrid, Rejuvenate and RejevenatePlus. Purple mattresses' feel and firmnessFirst up: How Purple mattresses feelPurple: The construction of the flagship Purple mattress gives it a distinct feel, thanks to the GelFlex Grid. Since this material is uncommon in most mattresses, it offers a new, also comfy, sleeping sensation. Restore Hybrid: It feels similar to the flagship Purple mattress but offers a bit more bounce from the coils, which should also help to support heavier people a bit more in the long run.RestorePremier Hybrid: The extra inch of GelFlex Grid gives it an even more distinct feel that the flagship Purple mattress. It’s easily one of the most “purply” mattresses we’ve tested.Rejuvenate: It has a less distinctive feel and more of a responsive, pillow-top sensation. If you’ve ever slept on a luxurious hotel bed, it’s similar to that, but with a subtle hint of Purple’s unique comfort blended in.RejuvenatePlus: Similar to the Rejuvenate mattress but with a lot more pressure relief. It adds more comfort elements and feels more plush, while still having that responsive pillow-top feel.
Getting a feel for the Purple Restore mattress; the top layer feels like a gel toy or Dr. Scholl's insole.  Jonathan Gomez/CNETSecond up: Purple mattresses' firmnessPurple: The flagship Purple should be right around a flat medium for the average-sized person. If you're on the heavier side, you may find it softer, while more petite sleepers will perceive it as firmer. However, it should be just fine for all sleeper types.Restore Hybrid: Its soft version is around a medium, while the firm version is closer to a proper medium-firm. If you’re a strict back or stomach sleeper seeking extra support, the firm option is worth checking out. RestorePremier Hybrid: The soft model is around a medium-soft, while the firm version sits between a medium and a medium-firm. If you're a primary side-sleeper interested in getting pressure relief for your shoulders and hips, the soft model could be for you.Rejuvenate: It's right around a medium-firm, working fine for all sleeper types, with a bit more support for back and stomach sleeping.RejuvenatePlus: I'd say it's about a medium. It's a solid option for all sleeper types, even side-sleepers who want a bit more pressure relief.
Watch this: Purple Mattress Guide: Which Bed Should You Sleep On?
12:21
Purple mattress composition: Each model's makeup Purple mattress
The Purple mattress is roughly 10 inches thick and has three foam layers.You've got dense foam on the bottom as the mattress's main support layer.Next, there’s a transition layer of neutral foam that adds pressure relief and serves as a buffer between the bed’s sleeping surface and the denser foam base underneath.Rather than foam on top, it has a trademark material called the GelFlex Grid. This is a stretchy and responsive polymer that's laid out in a grid format to offers a nice balance of support and pressure relief. Picture a giant Dr. Scholl's insole, but instead of in your shoe, it's in your bed.The GelFlex Grid is surrounded by a foam border to give it enhanced edge support, and Purple's SoftFlex cover wraps everything up.Worth noting: Every one of Purple's mattress models feature the GelFlex Grid material somewhere, either as the primary comfort layer or as a transition layer, but I'll get into that later in this review.Purple Restore Hybrid
We tested the Purple Restore mattress and found it's accommodating for a wide range of sleeper types.  Jonathan Gomez/CNETThe Restore Hybrid mattress is similar to the flagship Purple mattress since it uses the same primary comfort and transition layers. The biggest difference between them comes down to their support layers. Instead of dense foam, the Restore Hybrid has pocketed coils on the bottom for a more enhanced and targeted support system. This makes it more supportive for bigger body types.Above those coils, it also uses a neutral transition layer to add more pressure relief to the mattress.Like the Purple mattress, the top comfort layer is also that GelFlex Grid material – the brand's "secret sauce."This layer is also surrounded by a foam border to provide the mattress with solid edge support, and it's wrapped up with the brand's SoftFlex cover, which includes an antimicrobial finish.Purple RestorePremier Hybrid
Jonathan Gomez/CNETThis mattress sits at the top of Purple's Premium Collection. Its construction mirrors the Restore Hybrid, with two main additions. First, the foam transition layer of the bed sits within the coils instead of on top, almost like it's baked in, offering more motion isolation and edge support benefits.Second, there's more of that signature Purple touch. You get three inches of the GelFlex on the RestorePremier, while the Purple Mattress and Restore Hybrid offer sleepers just two inches. That means "goodbye" to any roll-off sensation. If edge support is key for you, look no further.Purple Rejuvenate
Jonathan Gomez/CNETPurple’s Luxe collection showcases the brand’s latest designs, offering more luxurious, pillow-top mattress feels that combine premium comfort with that distinct, signature Purple feel. The Rejuvenate is the entry-level model within this collection.It's around 15 inches thick and uses pocketed coils on the bottom for support, which feature a zoned support design to help keep your back properly aligned while resting.Next there's a transition layer made from a more neutral foam.Above that, there's the GelFlex Grid surrounded by an edge support foam border.And just beneath the bed's quilted cover, you've got the primary dual comfort layers of the mattress.Worth noting: Since the GelFlex Grid is positioned deeper within the mattress rather than right on top, it gives the mattress a more traditional pillow-top feel compared to other models in the brand's lineup.Purple RejuvenatePlus
Jonathan Gomez/CNETIf you thought the Rejuvenate was impressive, the upgrades only get better from here. The RejuvenatePlus is one of Purple's top-tier options. It's reflective of the Rejuvenate in terms of its overall design, but even thicker and more pressure-relieving. All the added comfort elements in its pillow top make it one of the most accommodating Purple beds to date. And if you're looking for an ultra-luxurious mattress, this one certainly checks the box. Purple mattress performanceIf you sleep with a partner, some other considerations come into play: How well does the bed deaden motion? How sturdy are the edges? Does it sleep hot or cold? Let's take a look. Motion isolationThe GelFlex Grid effectively deadens cross-mattress movement. If you push down on one side, the motion shouldn't reverberate to the other side. Similar to a dense memory foam bed, all Purple's mattresses work well for light sleepers.Edge supportPurple mattresses also have solid edge support. On most of the newer models, there's a foam border which surrounds the GelFlex Grid, helping to strengthen the edges. Even though hybrid beds usually have better edge support than all-foam ones, I don't see anyone falling off these beds anytime soon.Temperature All of the Purple mattresses we've explored in this review sleep temperature neutral, but not necessarily for the same reason. The Rejuvenate and RejuvenatePlus mattresses have cooling covers to help with sleeping temperature, while the other mattresses offer ample airflow via the design of the GelFlex Grid on top. Since there's not much surface area when it comes to Purple's grid format, air travels more freely through that layer than through your average comfort foam.See more: Best cooling mattressDurabilityThe Purple Hybrid models, aka the Restore and Rejuvenate lines, are more supportive and durable than the original Purple mattress because of the steel coils within their foundation layers. Hybrid mattresses last about three to five more years than all-foam mattresses.Off-gassingYour Purple mattress might have a funky smell when you unbox it, but that's completely normal. This is called off-gassing, and it happens because the bed has been compressed for a long time in plastic. The smell should dissipate after a couple days.Who is a Purple mattress ideal for?Sleeping positions
Jonathan Gomez/CNETSide Sleepers: Most side sleepers prefer softer options to provide pressure relief to their hips and shoulders. I think the Essential and Premium collections have the most accommodating mattresses for side sleeping, since they feature that body-conforming GelFlex Grid as their main comfort layers.  Stomach and Back Sleepers: If you sleep on your back or stomach, chances are you'll want a firmer bed. That being said, the GelFlex Grid is unique in that it offers in equal measures pressure relief and support. I'd recommend almost any of the Purple beds to these sleeper types, especially the Rejuvenate. But these sleepers should stay away from extremely soft models like the Purple PlusCombo Sleepers: I'm personally a combo sleeper, meaning I'm constantly rolling between positions at night. The GelFlex Grid is highly adaptive for combination sleeping. Its immediate response time makes switching from your back to your side to your stomach effortless.Body typeThe original Purple mattress is best for people under 230 pounds, while the hybrid Purple mattresses better accommodate all body weights. Heavier people could get by on the original Purple mattress, but the Premium and Luxe collections will offer more support.Purple mattress pricing Compare the Purple mattresses by price
Mattress Queen pricePurple
$1,499Restore Hybrid $2,399RestorePremier Hybrid $3,699Rejuvenate $5,495RejuvenatePlus $6,495
A queen-size Purple goes for around $1,400, but the brand usually offers discounts that bring it closer to the $1,000 range. This is one of the more affordable options from Purple.It's around $2,300 for a queen-size Purple Restore, so start saving up for those support coils. It may be worth it if you're a bit heavier. This is Purple's most affordable hybrid bed.The Purple RestorePremier queen-size retails for around $3,500, which is quite a bit to spend on a mattress. But it's a quality Purple product with the most amount of that uniquely "Purple" feel.There's no getting around it, the Luxe collection is expensive. The entry-level Rejuvenate queen-size runs $5,500, and the two other mattresses go up from there. They could be worth it if you're looking for a luxury product.Worth noting: Pricing for online beds often changes, but Purple mainly offers cash discounts around major holidays.  Purple mattress policiesWhen you're in the market for an online bed, it's important to know the details about shipping, returns, trial periods and warranties.100-night sleep trial10-year warrantyFree shipping and returnsYou have time to test the bed out at home before you're stuck with it. If you decide it's not right for you within that timeframe, you can return it for a full refund. If you decide to keep your new Purple mattress after that trial period, you're backed by a nice warranty.Final verdict on the Purple mattress lineupSo when it comes down to it, which bed from Purple is right for you?Purple: As the most affordable option among the ones I've discussed, this model will likely appeal to most buyers. It offers a budget-friendly price while retaining the signature Purple feel that fans love. Plus, its design is ideal for average-sized sleepers, making it a solid all-around choice.Purple mattress
$1,299 at Purple
Restore Hybrid: Consider this mattress if you're interested in the flagship Purple but are heavier and need a more supportive version of the mattress with coils. Restore Hybrid
$2,099 at Purple
RestorePremier Hybrid: If you want even more of that Purple feel alongside those coils, and you don't mind spending up for it, this bed could be the way to go.RestorePremier Hybrid
$3,199 at Purple
Rejuvenate and RejuvenatePlus: These beds come with a bit of sticker shock, but if it fits your budget, you’re investing in one of the most premium models Purple has ever offered.Purple Rejuvenate
$4,995 at Purple
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.