Anurag, Author at Make Tech Easier
Computing
Mobile
Lifestyle
PC Guides
Reviews
Tech Explained
Search
Computing
Windows
Linux
Mac
ChromeOS
Mobile
Android
iOS
Lifestyle
Gadgets
Productivity
Smart Home
Social Media
Gaming
Internet
Tech Explained
News
More from us
Reviews
Cheatsheets
Buying Guides
Deals
Newsletter
Anurag
Anurag is an experienced journalist and author who’s been covering tech for the past 5 years, with a focus on Windows, Linux, and Apple. He’s written for sites like Android Police, Neowin, and XDA. Anurag’s always pumped about tech and loves getting his hands on the latest gadgets. When he’s not procrastinating, you’ll probably find him catching the newest movies in theaters or scrolling through Twitter from his bed.
This n8n Automation Manages My Gmail Inbox Without Me Lifting a Finger
I decided to build an automation that monitors incoming Gmail messages, and intelligently classifies them with appropriate labels. Here’s how it works.
Productivity – Sep 22, 2025
Can This Terminal-Based Browser Be Your Daily Browser?
w3m is a terminal-based browser that works well for distraction-free reading but falls short as a modern browser replacement.
Internet – Sep 19, 2025
AI Browsers Are a Security Nightmare, and I Am Done Pretending They’re Not
AI browsers promise convenience but risk exposing your most sensitive data to misuse and security threats.
Internet – Sep 8, 2025
This Terminal-based Calendar App Is Good Enough For Me to Ditch Google Calendar
Calcurse offers a fast, keyboard-driven alternative to Google Calendar while keeping scheduling simple and customizable.
Productivity – Sep 3, 2025
I Found the Best Automation Tool That’s Free and Can Be Self-Hosted
n8n is a powerful open-source automation tool that lets you connect apps and build custom workflows.
Productivity – Aug 25, 2025
This Is the Best Linux Desktop Customization Tool You’ve Never Tried
I started using a tool called EWW, and it does a good job, displaying things like clocks, weather, and more.
Linux – Aug 18, 2025
Why I Return to Brave After Trying Perplexity’s AI Comet Browser
I tried the Comet browser, and I can say with certainty that it is not quite there yet. I am better off sticking with Brave.
Internet – Aug 13, 2025
Yazi Is the Best Terminal-Based File Manager You Are Looking For
Yazi is fast, customizable file manager that brings powerful features and smooth previews right to your terminal.
Linux – Aug 11, 2025
How to Make Your Android Phone Look Like a Google Pixel Without Rooting
Give your Android phone a Pixel makeover with these tips!
Android – Jul 14, 2022
Trending
This n8n Automation Manages My Gmail Inbox Without Me Lifting a Finger
Sep 22, 2025
Add MTE as a Preferred Source on Google and Never Miss a New Article From Us
Sep 22, 2025
Replace the Terminal with These Useful GUI-Based Alternatives
Sep 22, 2025
All the Ways You Can Customize Vivaldi to Be Your Dream Browser
Sep 21, 2025
How to Set Up Call Back Reminders in iPhone
Sep 20, 2025
Is Your Gmail on the Dark Web? Use Google’s Dark Web Report to Check
Sep 20, 2025
More Posts >
Affiliate Disclosure: Make Tech Easier may earn commission on products purchased through our links, which supports the work we do for our readers.
Uncomplicating the complicated, making life easier
Make Tech Easier provides tech tutorials, reviews, tips and tricks to help you navigate the complicated world of technology. We aim to uncomplicate the complicated, making your life easier.
About
Contact
Advertise
Editorial Guidelines
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
RSS Feed Terms
© 2025 Uqnic Network Pte Ltd. All rights reserved.