The Best Custard Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Custard Cake
Raspberry Custard Kuchen
Baked Custard
Custard Pie
Pumpkin Custard
Caramel Custard
Homemade Chocolate Custard
Pumpkin Spice Custard
Butternut Squash Custard
Apple Custard Pie
Pumpkin Pie Custard
French Toast Custard
Old-Fashioned Rice Custard
Breakfast Custard
Vanilla Custard Pie
Coconut Custard
Custard Tart
Custard Recipe Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesCustardsBaked Custards
Custard
Custard Recipe Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4.6 | 11 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 15 min. Bake: 55 min. + chilling
By
Val Goodrich
Recipe by Ruth Van Dyke, Traverse City, Michigan
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 19, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This custard recipe uses simple ingredients and a no-frill method to make the perfect batch of belly-warming baked custard.
Every home baker needs a go-to baked custard recipe in their back pocket. It’s the perfect dessert to whip up on a rainy day, when a loved one is sick or when you’re craving a dessert but have almost no ingredients in the house. Homemade custard is warm, creamy, cozy and so soul-affirming that it’s basically the dessert equivalent of chicken noodle soup.
But how do you make custard? We’ll show you that it is really quite simple. Once you master this recipe for custard, you’ll open a whole new door to tons of delicious custard recipes. A blackberry and creamy corn custard is a must in the summertime, while our pumpkin spice custard is autumn in a ramekin.
What is custard?
Custard is a mixture of milk, sugar, eggs and flavorings that are cooked together to create a thick, homogenous, saucelike dessert. You can enjoy homemade custard as a sauce, or you can pour the custard into a baking pan and bake it with a water bath to set the dessert, which is how creme brulee and caramel flan are made!
Custard Ingredients
Whole milk: Whole milk has the perfect fat-to-water ratio to make a baked homemade custard. We don’t recommend substituting another type of milk or nondairy milk.
Eggs: You’ll need four large eggs for this custard recipe. There’s no need to bring them to room temperature as so many dessert recipes require, and you don’t need to separate the egg yolks from the egg whites as usually called for in a recipe for custard.
Sugar: Granulated sugar sweetens the custard ingredients. We don’t recommend swapping in brown sugar, as brown sugar will discolor the homemade custard.
Vanilla extract: Since so few flavors are prominent in a custard recipe, it’s important to use one of the best vanilla extract brands from the store for maximum flavor potential. Honestly, I prefer using vanilla paste in my custard-based recipes. The vanilla bean flecks are gorgeous and act like super-charged pops of vanilla flavor.
Ground nutmeg: While you can certainly use pre-ground nutmeg, I highly recommend grating nutmeg fresh. The taste is so much more prominent that this simple swap will make a huge difference in the final flavor of your custard.
Directions
Step 1: Heat the milk
Preheat the oven to 350°F. In a small saucepan, heat the milk until bubbles form around the sides of the pan. Promptly remove the saucepan from the heat.
Editor’s Tip: Do not let the milk come to a boil. Milk foams a lot when it boils and will most likely boil over and out of your saucepan.
Step 2: Make the custard
Taste of Home
In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs, sugar and salt until blended but not foamy.
Taste of Home
Slowly stream in the hot milk while constantly stirring. Stir in the vanilla.
Editor’s Tip: Avoid pouring the milk in all at once or you’ll immediately cook the eggs and be left with a bowl of scrambled eggs.
Step 3: Create the hot water bath
Taste of Home
Pour the egg mixture through a fine mesh strainer and into a 1-1/2-quart round baking dish. Sprinkle with nutmeg.
Taste of Home
Place the round baking dish in a larger baking pan. Pour very hot water into the baking pan to within 1/2 inch of the top of the round baking dish. Try not to splash any water into the round baking dish with the custard.
Step 4: Bake the custard
Taste of Home
Bake the custard until a knife inserted near the center comes out clean, 55 to 60 minutes. The center will be soft and jiggly. Remove the baking dish from the water bath and immediately place it on a wire rack. Let the custard cool at room temperature for 30 minutes.
Step 5: Chill and serve
Cover the homemade custard with storage wrap, and refrigerate until it’s nice and cold. Scoop servings into bowls and enjoy with fresh berries, if desired!
Taste of Home
Recipe Variations
Sprinkle with extra spices: After sprinkling on the nutmeg, follow it with other cozy baking spices like cinnamon, cardamom, clove or pumpkin pie spice.
Add more flavor: You can use almost any extract to flavor homemade custard. Coconut, lemon, rum, butter and coffee would be excellent additions to the list of custard ingredients.
Bake individual portions: How do you make custard as individual servings? Disperse the recipe for custard among ramekins instead of baking it in one big pan.
How to Store Custard
Once the custard has cooled to room temperature, cover it tightly with storage wrap and place the pan in the fridge. It can be kept in the fridge for up to three days.
Can you freeze custard?
We do not recommend freezing custard. Once the custard thaws, it will split beyond repair, making the texture weird, wonky and undesirable.
Custard Tips
Taste of Home
How do you thicken custard?
Custards achieve a thick texture because of the eggs included in the recipe. Thankfully, this recipe for custard has four, so you shouldn’t have to fuss with another thickening agent.
What’s the difference between pudding and custard?
The main differences between custard and pudding are their textures and how they are thickened. Custard’s texture is usually much firmer than pudding because it is thickened with eggs, whereas pudding is thickened with starch.
How should I serve homemade custard?
You can serve homemade custard by itself, but we love serving it with a handful of fresh berries, as in this berries with vanilla custard recipe.
Watch How to Make Custard Recipe
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Custard Recipe
4.6 | 11 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:10 servings
Prep:15 min
Cook:55 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
4 cups whole milk
4 large eggs
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Ground nutmeg
Fresh berries, optional
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°. In a small saucepan, heat milk until bubbles form around sides of pan; remove from heat. In a large bowl, whisk eggs, sugar and salt until blended but not foamy. Slowly stir in hot milk. Stir in vanilla.
Pour egg mixture through a strainer into a 1-1/2-qt. round baking dish; sprinkle with nutmeg. Place round baking dish in a larger baking pan. Place pan on oven rack; add very hot water to pan to within 1/2 in. of top of round baking dish. Bake until a knife inserted near the center comes out clean, 55-60 minutes. Centers will be soft and jiggle even after chilling. Remove baking dish from water bath immediately to a wire rack; cool 30 minutes. Refrigerate until cold. If desired, serve with fresh berries.
Nutrition Facts
1/2 cup: 128 calories, 5g fat (2g saturated fat), 84mg cholesterol, 130mg sodium, 15g carbohydrate (15g sugars, 0 fiber), 6g protein.
Author
Val Goodrich
Val channels her experience from the Culinary Institute of America and a number of bakeries into her daily work at Taste of Home. She’s usually typing away at her desk in Philly, but otherwise, you can find her planning her next trip abroad, using her ice cream maker or filling her basket at the farmers market.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Whenever a friend or relative was ailing, my mother-in-law would bake this fresh custard recipe and take it along when she visited. Because she took folks this special treat so often, our family began calling it get-well custard! —Ruth Van Dyke, Traverse City, Michigan
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box