Who is Alix Tichelman?
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
48 Hours
|
Full Episodes
Crime
Watch CBS News
48 Hours
Who is Alix Tichelman?
August 30, 2025 / 11:58 PM EDT
/ CBS News
CBS News/Michelle Fanucci
Meet the tattooed beauty charged in death of Google executive Forrest Hayes.It all started on this boat the night of Nov. 22, 2013, when Forrest Hayes, a 51-year-old Google executive, met Alix Tichelman, a then-26-year-old aspiring model and makeup artist, on his 46-foot- yacht, "Escape."
Forrest Hayes
Forrest Hayes Memorial Site
The next morning, Hayes was found dead from an apparent heroin overdose. Police noticed two used wine glasses in the cabin. Their conclusion? Someone else must have been there.
Alix Tichelman
diaz digital media
After obtaining security footage from the yacht, police discover that indeed, Hayes had been with someone else that night. That woman was Alix Tichelman.
Young Alix
Personal photo
Tichelman spent the early years of her childhood in Canada. She is pictured in her soccer uniform.
Forrest Hayes' H.S. photo
Harry S. Truman High School
Hayes grew up in Dearborn, Michigan, right outside of Detroit. After graduating from the University of Michigan - Dearborn, he took a job working for Ford Motor Company.
Alix Tichelman at Hyde School
Personal photo
As a teenager, Tichelman spent some months at the Hyde School in Bath, Maine.This scrapbook page was given to "48 Hours" by a roommate during her time at the school. The caption in the photo reads:
"look at the cuts on her arm."
Tichelman's teen years
Personal photo
Friends say Alix Tichelman began using drugs as a teenager. She would eventually leave Hyde School and attend several other public and private schools. This is 14-year-old Alix in her passport photo.
The Tichelman family
Facebook
Bart and Leslieann Tichelman, Alix's parents, are pictured after Bart won a major 2008 poker event. Reports say he won more than $400,000.In her early teens, the family moved from Canada to a suburb of Atlanta.
Hayes' Santa Cruz home
Zillow
Hayes moved to California to pursue a career in technology. He held high-level positions at Sun Microsystems, Apple and Google, where he worked at the company's most secret division, Google X.He lived in a $3 million
mansion in Santa Cruz -- an hour-long commute from his job at Google.
Alix Tichelman & Dean Riopelle
Facebook
Before Alix Tichelman ever met Hayes, she dated night club owner and former rock singer Dean Riopelle.Riopelle was a member of the band Impotent Sea Snakes and invited Tichelman to live in his home with him.
Dean Riopelle's Pet Hobby
Facebook
Riopelle
lived on a ranch where he housed dozens of exotic monkeys. Alix Tichelman loved these monkeys and fondly referred to them as her "babies" on her Twitter page.
Dean Riopelle's Death
Facebook
In September 2013, Alix Tichelman called 911 to report Riopelle had overdosed. The autopsy report stated he had toxic levels of heroin, pain killers and alcohol in his system.
Chad Cornell and Alix Tichelman
Chad Cornell
After Dean Riopelle's death, Alix Tichelman moved to California to live with her parents. There, she met Chad Cornell, a contractor and part-time musician. They started dating and, as Cornell says, fell in love. They would date for eight months, breaking up only a month before Tichelman's arrest for the death of Forrest Hayes.
Tichelman's Texts
Friend of Alix Tichelman
Alix Tichelman was also meeting men through the sugar daddy website SeekingArrangement.com.These are texts Tichelman's friend, Todd, says she sent to him. In this text, Todd says Tichelman talks about meeting up with one of these "sugar daddies" just a few weeks before she met Hayes.Todd thinks the man she's referring to in this text is Forrest Hayes.
"48 Hours" onboard "Escape"
CBS News
On Nov. 22, 2013,  Hayes and Alix
Tichelman meet in this cabin of the "Escape."Santa Cruz
police say footage from security cameras captured Tichelman injecting herself and then Hayes with heroin. Here, "48 Hours" correspondent Maureen Maher tours the crime scene.
Alix Tichelman's arrest
Friend of Alix Tichelman
Months after Hayes' death, Alix Tichelman is unaware she's a suspect, her friend Todd says. Todd also says Alix was ready to leave California and return to Atlanta. The problem is, she has no money to get home. She needs one last "arrangement," Todd says, to make it back to Georgia.Knowing she might leave the state, Santa Cruz, Calif.,
police launch a sting, posing as a "sugar daddy" and asking Tichelman to meet them at the Seascape Hotel in Northern California.In this text, Todd says Alix reveals her excitement about having the money to go home. However, when Alix arrives at the resort for the date, she is arrested.
Alix Tichelman charged
Santa Cruz Police Dept.
On July 9, 2014, Alix Tichelman is charged with prostitution and manslaughter in the death of Forrest Hayes.
Alix Pleads Guilty
"48 Hours"
On May 19, 2015, Tichelman avoided going to trial by pleading guilty to prostitution, possession of drugs and involuntary manslaughter. She was sentenced to six years in jail.
New Developments
KPIX
Tichelman, 30, completed her sentence and was released from jail on March 29, 2017. Santa Cruz sheriff's officials turned her over to the custody of Department of Homeland Security Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents the same morning.On April 7, CBS affiliate KOIN reported Tichelman, who grew up in Georgia, was ordered deported from the U.S. to her native Canada.
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue