Senate Confirms Jess Kramer as EPA’s Assistant Administrator for Water | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental TopicsAirBed BugsChemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency ResponseEnvironmental Information by Location HealthLand, Waste, and CleanupLeadMoldRadonResearchScience TopicsWater TopicsA-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & RegulationsBy Business SectorBy TopicComplianceEnforcementGuidanceLaws and Executive OrdersRegulations
Report a Violation
Report a ViolationEnvironmental ViolationsFraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPAOur Mission and What We DoHeadquarters OfficesRegional OfficesLabs and Research CentersPlanning, Budget, and ResultsOrganization ChartEPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
News Releases
Senate Confirms Jess Kramer as EPA’s Assistant Administrator for Water
September 18, 2025
Contact Information
EPA Press Office
(press@epa.gov)
WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate has confirmed Jessica Kramer to serve as U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Assistant Administrator for the Office of Water. Appointed by President Donald J. Trump, Jess Kramer will work in this new role to advance the agency’s core mission of protecting human health and the environment and EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin’s Powering the Great American Comeback Initiative.“Jess Kramer brings unprecedented expertise, leadership, and experience to EPA’s Office of Water, and I congratulate her on her confirmation,” said EPA Administrator Zeldin. “She is exceptionally well-equipped to help carry out President Trump’s agenda, of providing the cleanest water to ALL Americans. Over the past several months, I have seen her dedication to serving the American people firsthand and I know that commitment will never waver.”“I am grateful and humbled by this opportunity. Clean and safe water is the foundation for healthy Americans, and I look forward to protecting this vital resource while ensuring that our work secures the win-win of environmental protection and economic prosperity,” said EPA Assistant Administrator for Water Jess Kramer. “This work matters to everyone, especially small and rural communities like the one in Wisconsin where I grew up. As Assistant Administrator for water, I will listen to our partners and accelerate progress achieving Congress’ vision laid out in the Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Water Act, and other environmental statutes.”The Office of Water works to ensure that drinking water is safe, wastewater is safely returned to the environment, and surface waters are properly managed and protected. The Office is responsible for implementing key environmental statutes, including the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.Prior to her confirmation, Jess Kramer served as a Senior Advisor to EPA Administrator Lee Zeldin. She previously served as Deputy Secretary of Regulatory Programs at the Florida Department of Environmental Protection where she managed statewide environmental programs. Ms. Kramer also briefly served as a senior policy advisor and counsel for Government Relations at Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck. She has extensive experience developing and implementing water policy, including serving as water counsel under Ranking Member (now Chair) Shelley Moore-Capito for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. She served in EPA’s Office of Water previously, as Senior Policy Counsel to the Assistant Administrator under the first Trump Administration. Ms. Kramer also worked for approximately six years in the State of Wisconsin, as an Assistant Attorney General for the Department of Justice in the Environmental Protection Unit and in the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources as an environmental enforcement specialist and attorney. Jess earned her bachelor’s degree from the University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point and her law degree from Marquette University Law School.Here’s what people are saying about Jess Kramer’s presidential appointment:Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Chairman Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV): “Jessica Kramer has a wealth of knowledge and experience advocating for clean water at both the state and federal level, as well as in the private sector, and has built a career crafting practical, bipartisan solutions to improve water policy and ensure communities have access to safe and reliable drinking water and wastewater infrastructure. She was a valuable member of my EPW Committee staff, playing a key role in shaping the water provisions in the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and has a deep understanding of the water issues impacting both West Virginia and our country. She recognizes that environmental protection and economic growth can go hand in hand, and knows how to ensure regulations are clear, fair, and based on sound science. I’m thrilled that Jessica can now bring her skillset and expertise to EPA, as she is exactly the civil servant the American people need serving in this role.”Senator Kevin Cramer (R-ND): “Jessica Kramer is exactly who we need at EPA and someone who really understands the role of the federal government in working together with the states. She has a clear understanding of the law, private property rights, and the confines of the bureaucracy. I am confident in her ability to get a clear, durable, and workable WOTUS rule finalized, and I look forward to partnering with her on a whole host of water issues important to North Dakota.”Senator Cynthia Lummis (R-WY): “Jessica Kramer brings the experienced leadership and practical approach needed to reform the EPA’s Office of Water. Her proven track record and commonsense approach to the regulatory process will help streamline the permitting processes that stalled for far too long under the Biden administration’s onerous policies. Her confirmation is a much-needed shift toward efficient, results-driven oversight that will finally put an end to harmful Biden-era policies that senselessly punished communities and businesses.”Florida Governor Ron DeSantis: “I am proud to support Jessica’s nomination to serve as the Assistant Administrator for Water at the EPA. As Deputy Secretary at the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, she played an important role in implementing Florida’s 404 delegation from the federal government and defending it in court, allowing our state to streamline permitting procedure to better protect and preserve Florida’s wetlands. I am confident that she will continue to bring much-needed efficiency and common-sense policy to the EPA like she did here in Florida.”Former EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler: “Jess will be an outstanding Assistant Administrator for Water, with her experience in the first Trump Administration coupled with her time in Florida, no one brings more to the position.”America First Policy Institute Executive Vice President and Former Secretary of the Interior Secretary David Bernhardt: “I commend the Senate for confirming Jessica Kramer to serve as Assistant Administrator for Water at EPA. Jessica is an exceptional leader, ready from day one to faithfully discharge her duties on behalf of President Trump and the American people. Few can match her combination of common sense and deep regulatory expertise at both the state and federal levels. Administrator Zeldin and President Trump are assembling an outstanding team, and I look forward to watching them advance the President’s bold agenda for America’s future.”Former EPA Assistant Administrator for Water Dave Ross: “Jess Kramer is uniquely qualified to lead the Office of Water at EPA. Her previous service on the Hill, in state government, and in the very office she is now confirmed to lead is unparalleled for an Assistant Administrator of Water. I am confident the Office of Water is in good hands and congratulate Jess on her confirmation.”
Related Links
Headquarters
Read other EPA News Releases about Administrator
Contact Us about News Releases
Contact Us about News Releases to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on September 18, 2025
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.