Culture - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Lifestyle
Culture
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
K-pop's biggest names are taking over Milan Fashion Week. Check out what they wore.
3 min read
Photos show how much grocery shopping has changed since the first supermarkets opened a century ago
16 min read
Katie Notopoulos
The Amex Platinum Card's $200 annual fee increase is steep — but not as divisive as Chase Sapphire Reserve's
The Amex Platinum Card's annual fee increase hasn't stoked the online outrage seen from the Chase Sapphire Reserve's. The new benefits seem worth it.
4 min read
Meet Fyre Festival's new owners
LimeWire, a file-sharing service, paid $245,300 for the Fyre Festival's branding rights.
4 min read
Let's talk about the seating chart for the Trump royal banquet, shall we?
Donald Trump sat next to Princess Kate at the UK state dinner attended by business leaders like Tim Cook. Let's see what the seating chart says.
6 min read
Look inside Institut auf dem Rosenberg, an elite boarding school in Switzerland that costs over $200,000 a year
Institut auf dem Rosenberg, a private, international boarding school in Switzerland, has dorms with hardwood floors and en-suite marble bathrooms.
6 min read
14 slang words Gen Zers are using in 2025 — and what they mean
These are 14 terms, from TikTok slang to rising trends, you might hear your Gen Z coworker using in 2025.
8 min read
Katie Notopoulos
Gen Alpha's 67 and 41 slang has no meaning — and that's the point
Gen Alphas are yelling out numbers like "6-7" and "41." But, why? Does this slang mean anything? Nope. It's a meme. And that's the point.
5 min read
This summer's hottest stadium sensation: Fans caught on camera
At stadiums this summer, from concerts to baseball games to the US Open, it's the fans who are providing the most talked-about moments.
3 min read
Katie Notopoulos
Yondr's CEO, who makes cellphone pouches for schools and concerts, uses only a flip phone — and stays off social media
Yondr makes the zippered pouches for phone-free zones, like schools and concerts. We asked the CEO about social media — and why he uses a flip phone.
6 min read
How one of the best ballerinas in America stays on top despite two injuries
As she enters her 21st season with New York City Ballet, Tiler reflects on the setbacks and triumphs that have defined her 16 years as a principal.
The top 10 party schools in the US, ranked
The University of California, Santa Barbara, was crowned the top party school for 2026. Find out which other schools made the list.
8 min read
25 photos show what life looked like for Americans 150 years ago
In 1875, people traveled by steamboat and buggy, and communicated via telegrams. The Gilded Age was also afoot, reshaping American society.
9 min read
From kiss cams to hat snatching, CEOs keep going viral for the wrong reasons
From a Coldplay concert to the US Open, executives are learning that what happens in the crowd doesn't stay in the crowd.
3 min read
Emily Stewart
Why Taylor Swift's engagement proves she's become an economy of her own
Taylor Swift's engagement to Travis Kelce proves that she's transformed herself from a celebrity into an economy of her own.
9 min read
Law enforcement is investigating a homicide at Burning Man
The local sheriff's office said an adult man died in what appears to be "a singular crime."
1 min read
Here's what TV shows CEOs and tech execs say they are watching these days
While some C-Suite executives read books or enjoy an evening cigar, others turn on the TV and dive into some of pop culture's most beloved series.
5 min read
Katie Notopoulos
Swifties Fan Army issues upbeat forecast after Taylor Swift-Travis Kelce merger proposal
The Taylor Swift-Travis Kelce merger creates synergies for a strong Q4 2025 growth outlook. Swifties Fan Army Inc. congratulates the couple.
2 min read
Matilda Djerf, the Scandi influencer-turned-designer, says she's never spent a week fully unplugged
"If you run a business for Gen Z, you have to be online," Matilda Djerf, founder of Djerf Avenue, said.
3 min read
Katie Notopoulos
Labubus are a billion-dollar bubble ready to burst
Labubus could rack up a billion dollars in sales this year. I don't have to tell you they're all the rage. But trends are fickle. Will the bubble pop?
4 min read
I dove headfirst into the unhinged Morning Routine Industrial Complex
A survey of America's 250-year, unhinged quest for the perfect morning routine, from Benjamin Franklin to Bryan Johnson.
16 min read
Inside a matcha rave, where Gen Zers go wild for ice-cold brews, sober partying, and getting home at a reasonable hour
I attended a matcha rave in Singapore at a nightclub in the middle of the afternoon, expecting it to be lame. I stood corrected.
6 min read
'Quiet cracking' is the latest buzzword to hit the workplace
In this Sunday edition of Business Insider Today, we're talking about the latest threat to worker wellbeing.
6 min read
60 British slang words that will confuse anybody who didn't grow up in the UK
These British slang words will leave anyone outside the UK scratching their heads. Learn quirky British phrases and how to use them like a local.
17 min read
How Frank's RedHot became America's most popular hot sauce company
Frank's RedHot is the best-selling hot sauce in America, beating out hundreds of competitors. But how did the company build such a diehard following?
AT&T CEO laid out a new vision for the company's culture. Business Insider broke down the aftermath.
In this Sunday edition of Business Insider Today, we're talking about AT&T CEO's bombshell memo and what it means for workplace loyalty.
5 min read
Men are ditching suits for loose pants, pricey tees, and tailored shorts in the return-to-office era
As workers return to the office, they're taking with them some of the comforts gained during the work-from-home days.
6 min read
Amanda Hoover
Welcome to brain rot summer
No breakout song, no runaway blockbuster: Summer 2025's biggest vibe is the lack of actual vibes
7 min read
The Hugo Spritz and the Spaghett battle it out for cocktail of the summer
In this Sunday edition of Business Insider Today, we're breaking down the debate over whether the Hugo Spritz or the Spaghett is this summer's drink.
5 min read
Emily Stewart
An apology to Gen X
Gen Xers know you pay more attention to Gen Zers, millennials, and boomers. They don't care.
11 min read
Millennial hustle culture defined my early career. My daughter made me realize I needed to shift my priorities.
When my young daughter told her dolls she was too busy with a work call to talk, I knew I had to shift my priorities.
4 min read
Katie Notopoulos
AI can make a video of your 'manifested' dream life. I say: Don't do it!
People have been using ChatGPT and other AI tools to "manifest" their ideal lives. Now they're creating videos, too. I wasn't sure if I wanted to try.
4 min read
My 17-year-old isn't excited about being able to drive. I get his hesitation.
Services like Uber make having a driver's license as a teen less of a necessity. My son doesn't have the same desire to drive that I did in the 90s.
3 min read
Living with my children's grandparents has taught me to stand my ground as a working mom
Generational differences have made living with my husband's family difficult at times. I'm glad I parent my own way.
5 min read
I'm a step-parenting coach and I see families make the same 5 mistakes. Here's how to avoid them.
Most new stepparents are optimistic about their future as a blended family, but strong relationships can take time and need extra care to develop.
4 min read
The Coldplay 'kiss cam' situation underlines a lesson I learned as a 15-year-old cheerleader
The former Astronomer CEO just learned a tough lesson about social media and life. Like a lot of Gen Zers, I knew this already. I learned it at 15.
5 min read
Take a look inside the only remaining German submarine captured by the US during World War II
Visitors can walk through the U-505's control room and bunks that held space for its crew of 59 men.
The results are in from BI's 'Gen Z stare' reader survey — here's what people said
In an informal survey of 241 Business Insider readers, 59.3% of respondents said they had experienced the "Gen Z stare." See what readers had to say.
2 min read
My kids stopped being appreciative of gifts. Now I make them write thank-you notes before they can use them.
My children began to resist writing thank-you notes as they got older. Now I make sure they show gratitude before enjoying their gifts.
4 min read
Katie Notopoulos
I regret seeing that Coldplay 'kiss cam' video
Chris Martin, why does Coldplay have a "kiss cam," anyway? I'm not sure I want to know about what happened between two adults outside Boston.
4 min read
Callie Ahlgrim
Move over, Aperol — the Hugo Spritz is summer's hottest cocktail
The Hugo Spritz, which combines prosecco and elderflower liqueur, is the must-try cocktail of the summer and a clear successor to the Aperol Spritz.
5 min read
Listen up, millennials: We asked 7 Gen Zers what they think about the 'Gen Z stare' debate
Young people appear to be split on the viral "Gen Z stare." Some reject the trend entirely, while others say they've seen it firsthand.
5 min read
Katie Notopoulos
Getting the 'Gen Z stare?' Maybe you're the problem.
If a young person in customer service is giving you a blank stare, perhaps you're the one who's being unreasonable.
4 min read
Fyre Festival's Billy McFarland just sold the brand for $245,300. He still owes his victims $26 million.
"Fyre Festival is just one chapter of my story, and I'm excited to move onto my next one," McFarland said following the sale.
3 min read
The GameStop stapler that punctured a Nintendo Switch 2 has sold for $250,000
A GameStop employee damaged a Nintendo Switch 2 with a stapler in June. Now that stapler and other "staplegate" items have sold on eBay for $250,000.
2 min read
Emily Stewart
The ultimate summer status symbol on Wall Street isn't a house in the Hamptons — it's a golf shirt
Finance guys on Wall Street are sizing up each other's golf shirts this summer as they've become the ultimate casual sign of success.
11 min read
Katie Notopoulos
Gen Z doesn't want to say 'hello' when answering the phone. I'm concerned.
Gen Z is making up its own etiquette rules when it comes to answering the phone. Some of them aren't saying "hello." They want you to first.
5 min read
When my 4-year-old named her imaginary friend 'Instagram,' I was mortified. It was a sign I needed to adjust my own screen time.
When
my daughter named her imaginary friend after a popular social media app, I knew I had to start limiting my own screen time.
4 min read
I've been in an arranged marriage for 18 years. Our relationship works because we see the world differently.
My husband is Gen X, and I'm a millennial whose energy leans toward Gen Z. Our differences are what have made our arranged marriage a success for 18 years.
4 min read
Katie Notopoulos
Be careful with this feature in iMessage. It almost ruined my life.
My iPhone keeps almost sending random audio recordings to people — and that's my worst nightmare. Here's what I figured out was going on in iMessage.
4 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.