Should you buy the new Meta Ray-Bans? I tested every model, and here's how to decide | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Glasses
Should you buy the new Meta Ray-Bans? I tested every model, and here's how to decide
How much of a difference does two years make? It depends on how you look at the latest Meta Ray-Bans.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 22, 2025 at 1:00 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The Meta Ray-Bans are arguably the most successful AI hardware product in the past three years, with enough momentum to encourage Mark Zuckerberg to spend 80% of the September Meta Connect keynote discussing the past, present, and future of smart glasses.Also: I used the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they offer 2 breakthroughs to take us beyond smartphonesWhile much of the fanfare was reserved for the new Ray-Ban Display glasses, which feature a waveguide system that projects visual cues, navigation pathways, a camera viewfinder, and more, the second generation of the original Meta Ray-Bans also launched. In many ways, they succeed their predecessor with meaningful upgrades. But you'll want to note the drawbacks too.I've tested both the first and second generations of Ray-Ban smart glasses, and here are the key reasons for and against buying the latest model.SpecificationsMeta Ray-Ban (1st Gen)Meta Ray-Ban (2nd Gen)Price$299$379Frame stylesWayfarer, Headliner, SkylerWayfarer, Headliner, SkylerLensesTinted, Transitions, ClearTinted, Transitions, ClearCamera12MP, up to 1080p+ resolution12MP, up to 3K resolutionBatteryUp to 4 hours per charge, 32 hours with caseUp to 8 hours per charge, 48 hours with caseMicrophones5-mic acoustic array5-mic acoustic array
You should buy the Meta Ray-Ban (2nd Gen) if...
Jason Hiner/ZDNET1. You want the best-looking video from your eyewearArguably, the biggest improvement with the newest Ray-Ban smart glasses is the ability to record in 3K video resolution. That's on par with the more expensive Meta Oakley HSTN model, and footage is noticeably sharper and more vivid when compared to the older Ray-Bans' 1080p recordings.Also: I biked with the Meta Oakley Vanguard, and they're easily the best smart glasses for athletesThe footage is still limited to a 4:3 aspect ratio, making it optimal for social media sharing, TikToks, and other mobile-centric platforms, but less so for long-form content. However, the bump in resolution should at least make cropping and cutting more forgiving with the second-gen Meta Ray-Bans.2. Battery anxiety is a big no-no for youWhile I wouldn't say that the original Ray-Ban smart glasses were significantly underwhelming in endurance, content creators and power users were able to run through the battery within two to three hours. Like the Oakley HSTN, the new Ray-Ban model has twice the battery life rating as its predecessor, with Meta suggesting up to eight hours of audio streaming compared to four hours.
Buy the Meta Ray-Ban (2nd Gen) View now at Meta
You should buy the Meta Ray-Ban (1st Gen) if...
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET1. The new software features interest youMeta announced a swath of new AI features alongside the Ray-Ban (2nd Gen), most of which will trickle down to the 1st-gen model within the coming months. Tools like Conversation Focus, which amplify the speaker in front of you, and Live AI, a multimodal feature that can keep track and interact with items, tasks, and other environmental objects, are on the future update list.Also: I tried smart glasses with a built-in display, and they beat my Meta Ray-Bans in key waysSo, if the new software features intrigue you more than the hardware itself, it may make more sense for you to either keep your existing smart glasses or, if you're not an owner, buy the older model instead.2. You'd like to save $80 (and possibly more)The new Meta Ray-Ban glasses come with an $80 upcharge, raising the starting price from $299 to $379. It's still a reasonable price, considering the quality-of-life changes that come with it, but if you're shopping on a budget, it may make more financial sense for you to invest in the older model, which Meta still sells on its website.And that's comparing the retail prices. Over the past several months, I've seen the first-generation Meta Ray-Bans list for as low as $240, and I'm expecting more of that going into the holiday season. It's also worth checking out Meta's refurbished but discounted storefront.
Buy the Meta Ray-Ban (1st Gen) View now at MetaFeatured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
5 Meta Ray-Ban upgrades that have me truly hyped for September 17
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they got me excited for the post-smartphone era
I tried smart glasses with a built-in display, and they beat my Meta Ray-Bans in key ways
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use