Samsung's versatile 40-inch monitor is now at its best price
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Samsung's versatile 40-inch monitor is now at its best price
Credit: Source: Samsung
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 10, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
SAMSUNG Odyssey G7 (G75F) monitor
$1020
$1200
Save $180
You can't go wrong with Samsung if you're looking for a new monitor. This one is suited to pull double duty as a monitor for productivity and gaming. And while it's pretty pricey, we think this $180 discount makes it worth taking a look at.
$1020 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
If you're looking for a monitor that can do it all, then this one from Samsung is going to be a good choice. You get a large 40-inch ultrawide screen, impressive performance numbers, and a wealth of other features. Now, you're probably looking at that $1,200 price and thinking it's a bit on the expensive side and we agree. Which is why this deal from Amazon that knocks $180 off is so important. This is the first time we've seen this monitor on sale, and because of that, it's now down to its best price yet. So if you've been thinking about picking up a new monitor that can pull double duty as your office workhorse but still handle all the entertainment you throw at it, well, this is going to be it.
It might be right for you
Now, when it comes to the look of this monitor, you're getting the traditional Samsung look, with subdued yet elegant design that works in any setting. With that said, it's not a boring look, and still manages to add some fun thanks to its RGB lighting on the rear that can be customized.
You get a 40-inch curved WUHD screen with a 180Hz refresh rate and 1ms response time. The monitor offers colors and contrast that look good, with Vesa DisplayHDR 600 certification, and you also get support for AMD's FreeSync Premium Pro.
Connectivity is also good, with two HDMI, one DisplayPort, USB-A, USB-B, and a 3.5mm audio jack. Plug in all your devices into this one monitor and convenient and seamless switching between ports with Samsung's Auto Source Switch+. And if you want to multitask, this monitor's got you covered with picture in picture and picture by picture. Again, this monitor is going to be great for all around use, so if you're just thinking about gaming, we think there are other great options. But if you're someone that needs it for work, or general use, and wants to get in some gaming as well, this one is going to be it.
Monitors
Samsung
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
I replaced a dedicated NVR with Frigate and I'll never go back
Sep 10, 2025
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
Sep 10, 2025
I work from home, but I'd rather use my laptop instead of my desktop
Sep 10, 2025
You only have a few hours left to grab this 2TB portable SSD for just $100
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
19 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
6 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I used Microsoft Office, Photoshop, and more on Linux with WinApps — here's how it went
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
Windows 10 goes out with a whimper as its final non-security update clears up a few loose ends
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.