Amit Sheen on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Amit Sheen
@amit_sheen
·
amitsh.com/
Direct link to the article CSS Typed Arithmetic
animation CSS functions math
CSS Typed Arithmetic
Starting in Chrome 140, we'll be able to calculate numeric values with mixed data types. Sounds small, but Amit demonstrates how big a deal this is, calling it Computational CSS.
Sep 24, 2025
Direct link to the article 3D Layered Text: Interactivity and Dynamicism
animation background custom properties
3D Layered Text: Interactivity and Dynamicism
In this third and final chapter, we’re stepping into interactivity by adding JavaScript, starting with a simple :hover effect, and ending with a fully responsive bulging text that follows your mouse in real time.
Aug 22, 2025
Direct link to the article 3D Layered Text: Motion and Variations
animation typography
3D Layered Text: Motion and Variations
In this chapter, we will explore ways to animate the effect, add transitions, and play with different variations. We will look at how motion can enhance depth, and how subtle tweaks can create a whole new vibe.
Aug 22, 2025
Direct link to the article 3D Layered Text: The Basics
typography
3D Layered Text: The Basics
A client asked me to create a bulging text effect. With a bit of cleverness and some advanced CSS, I managed to get a result I’m genuinely proud of, which is covered in this three-part series.
Aug 22, 2025
Direct link to the article Scroll-Driven Sticky Heading
position Scroll Driven Animation
Scroll-Driven Sticky Heading
I was playing around with scroll-driven animations, just searching for all sorts of random things you could do. That’s when I came up with the idea to animate main headings and, using scroll-driven animations, change the headings based on the user’s scroll position.
Jul 11, 2025
Direct link to the article CSS Olympic Rings
css animation CSS functions relative color
CSS Olympic Rings
It was a few years ago during the 2020 Olympics in Tokyo 2020 that I made a demo of animated 3D Olympic rings. I like it, it looks great, and I love the effect of the rings crossing each other.…
Aug 20, 2024
Direct link to the article Think Without Boxes
Think Without Boxes
What’s the one thing people can do to make their website better? Now that is a good question. One with many right answers, like improving performance, taking care of accessibility, and upgrading user experience as prime examples. These are all …
Dec 14, 2021
Direct link to the article My Struggle to Use and Animate a Conic Gradient in SVG
conic gradients loader mix-blend-mode SVG
My Struggle to Use and Animate a Conic Gradient in SVG
The wonderful company I work for, Payoneer, has a new logo, and my job was to recreate it and animate it for a loader component in our app. I’ll explain exactly how I did it, share the problems I …
Jul 8, 2021
Direct link to the article How to Map Mouse Position in CSS
cursor custom properties loops
How to Map Mouse Position in CSS
Let’s look at how to get the user’s mouse position and map it into CSS custom properties: --positionX and --positionY.
We could do this in JavaScript. If we did, we could do things like make make an element …
Mar 1, 2021
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top