Apple Watch Series 11 Is Still My Goldilocks Pick, but Only Barely - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 11 Is Still My Goldilocks Pick, but Only Barely
Review: Subtle updates keep the Apple Watch Series 11 at the top of its game with noticeable battery gains, but the competition is closing in.
Article updated on September 16, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Vanessa Hand Orellana
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Vanessa Hand Orellana Lead Writer Vanessa is a lead writer at CNET, reviewing and writing about the latest smartwatches and fitness trackers. She joined the brand first as an on-camera reporter for CNET's Spanish-language site, then moved on to the English side to host and produce some of CNET's videos and YouTube series. When she's not testing out smartwatches or dropping phones, you can catch her on a hike or trail run with her family. Expertise Consumer Technology, Smart Home, Family, Apps, Wearables
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
Table of Contents
Apple Watch Series 11 Is Still My Goldilocks Pick, but Only Barely
FDA-cleared blood pressure alerts may be life-changing
Better sleep tracking makes even this night owl more consistent
More battery life to fuel health tracking
5G and better connectivity on the Series 11
A familiar design with a tougher glass
WatchOS 26 brings a fresh look to the Series 11
Bottom line
Sliding the Apple Watch Series 11 onto my wrist felt less like trying something new and more like picking up where I'd left off. The newest watch doesn't offer many fireworks, but after almost a week of wearing it, the Series 11 is still my pick of the litter. It's just not as obvious a pick as last year's Series 10.That's partly because the Apple Watch is facing steep competition this year -- not just from the Samsung Galaxy and Google Pixel watches of the world but also from within its own family. At its September event, Apple launched three new models: the flagship Series 11, the rugged Apple Watch Ultra 3 and the more affordable Apple Watch SE 3.
9.0/ 10
SCORE Apple Watch Series 11
Pros
FDA cleared hypertension alerts
24+ hour battery life and fast charging
More reliable cellular connectivity and 5G
2X more scratch resistant screen
More cohesive UI and seamless compatibility with iOS
Cons
Same processor as older models
Minimal design changes
No dual band GPS
Gesture control is still limited to pre-selected options
At $399 (£369, AU$679), the Series 11 is the Goldilocks of the bunch. It sits right in the middle on battery life, features and price -- and it's likely the one I'd choose for myself if I were buying my first Apple Watch or upgrading from an older model. It's gotten a noticeable battery bump, 5G support and more reliable connectivity on cellular models, better scratch resistance on the aluminum version, a potentially lifesaving hypertension (high blood pressure) notification, a new sleep score and a refreshed WatchOS 26 interface. But it's still running on the same S10 chip as last year, now also in the Ultra 3 and SE 3. And since some of its standout features -- such as the hypertension notifications and sleep scores -- are coming to older Apple Watches, too, current owners may not feel inclined to upgrade to the Series 11. There are now plenty of ways to get these perks without splurging on the latest model.
Watch this: Apple Watch Series 11 Review: Is It Worth the Upgrade?
06:18
FDA-cleared blood pressure alerts may be life-changing The most notable new health feature on the Apple Watch Series 11 is an FDA-cleared hypertension notification. It's not the full on-the-spot blood pressure monitoring Apple fans have long hoped for, but it's a major step forward -- one that Apple says could help 1 million people get diagnosed with hypertension in the first year alone.If you're familiar with the watch's existing heart health alerts such as the irregular rhythm notifications that flag for potential atrial fibrillation or the sleep apnea alerts, this works similarly. It runs quietly in the background, and all you have to do is opt in using the Health app on your iPhone.
The hypertension notification on the Apple Watch Series 11 on display at Apple's Cupertino event on Sept. 9. Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETI'm hoping I never get to test this feature out firsthand, but even if I did have undiagnosed hypertension, I wouldn't see an alert right away. The watch needs about 30 days of data before it can surface a notification. And even then, it's not meant to be a diagnostic tool. You'll still need to confirm readings using a traditional blood pressure cuff, log those results in the Health app and share them with your doctor either in person or by exporting them as a PDF file and sharing electronically.But at least it gets that conversation started. If it weren't for those heart rate alerts on the Apple Watch (Series 5), my stoic father would've never consulted a doctor about his heart. Those on-the-spot ECG reads captured the irregular rhythm that even the hospital's ECG had missed during a routine check-up. (It also convinced me early on that the watch's health sensors were genuinely helpful.)Because the hypertension notifications rely on a combination of software and hardware, they're also coming in WatchOS 26 to older models with the advanced heart monitor, including the Series 9 and Series 10. The Apple Watch Ultra 3 will ship with it preloaded, but the Apple Watch SE 3 won't get it because it's missing that newer heart rate sensor and the ECG feature.
Left to right: All three Apple Watch models announced at Apple's Sept. 9 event: Apple Watch Ultra 3, Apple Watch Series 11 and Apple Watch SE 3. Celso Bulgatti/CNETBetter sleep tracking makes even this night owl more consistentThe other new health tool debuting on the Apple Watch Series 11 (and the rest of the new lineup) is Sleep Score. The Apple Watch has tracked sleep for years, but this is the first time it's actually giving you something quantifiable to improve on. Apple says it's using the latest clinical guidance from the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, the National Sleep Foundation and the World Sleep Society to grade the quality of your sleep based on three factors: duration, bedtime and interruptions.You'll get a numeric score from zero to 100 along with a Low to Excellent rating that you can check on the sleep app on your Apple Watch or access on the Health app on your iPhone. Beyond just the rating, you can also learn where you went wrong (or what you got right) by pressing the "i" icon to see a full breakdown of what contributed to your score.
Sleep Score on the Apple Watch Series 11 is also coming to older models with WatchOS 26.  Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETAs a night owl on a deadline, I've been surprised to see a consistent "Excellent" sleep score on my Apple Watch Series 11 over the past few nights. Personally, I'd reserve that label for a full eight hours, but the Apple Watch seems a bit generous in its grading. I've been getting between 6.5 and 7.5 hours, staying within about an hour of my usual bedtime and experiencing minimal interruptions.But clearly, there's more to feeling rested than what the Apple Watch can measure -- because even on those "Excellent" sleep days, I still haven't felt rested. What it doesn't know is the heap of sleep debt I racked up during the nights leading up to, and right after, the Apple launch event: the hotel stays where I forgot to wear my watch and the late nights that stretched well past my usual midnight cutoff.
The Apple Watch gives you a breakdown of the factors that contributed to your sleep score.  Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETIn theory, you could still see all of that past data without a Series 11. As long as you've updated to WatchOS 26 (available now) and have an Apple Watch Series 6 or later, an Apple Watch SE 2 or later or any Apple Watch Ultra model, the score is retroactive -- so your past nights will show up in the Health app on your iPhone along with long-term trends.Here's where I noticed my biggest problem with sleep tracking: consistency. The gaps in my data (from the days when I didn't wear the watch to bed) seem to pull down my long-term averages, including my average bedtime time. I suspect this will even out over time with more consistent tracking, but it's worth knowing in case your past data skews your early scores.More battery life to fuel health tracking One of the biggest obstacles to consistent sleep tracking for me has been battery life - or rather, the lack of it. It's the first thing I sacrifice when faced with a dead watch. I'd rather skip sleep tracking than risk missing my activity rings because I left my Apple Watch on the charger during a midday top-up. The Series 11 eases this pain point and has already made me a more consistent sleep tracker with its longer battery life and ultra-fast charging top-offs.Apple rates the Series 11 for up to 24 hours of "normal use," and after wearing it through at least three full battery cycles, I can confirm that's accurate. With notifications turned on (heavy Slack-ing and texting), at least one 30- to 45-minute outdoor workout a day, a full night of sleep tracking and some mild flashlight use, I've consistently managed to squeeze between 27 and 32 hours per charge.
The Apple Watch Series 11 battery lasted about four hours past its 24-hour rating in our real-world testing. Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETIn fact, as I write this, I'm 27 hours in with about 20% battery still left. Your mileage will vary based on your usage patterns, but I can safely say it exceeds Apple's claim.This would be even more impressive if the Apple Watch Series 10 hadn't already been an overachiever in this category. That model was rated for 18 hours, but I routinely hit the 24-hour mark. The six-hour battery bump on the Series 11 may not sound like much on paper, but it's given me some welcome breathing room to figure out a better charging strategy. It'll also feel like an even bigger leap if you're coming from older models that hovered closer to Apple's original 18-hour claim.And it's not just the longer battery life that's made me more consistent at tracking my sleep -- the Apple Watch Series 11 charges much faster. The Apple Watch has been gaining charging speed for a few years now, culminating in the ultra-fast charging of the Series 10. On the Series 11, just five minutes on the included fast-charging cable (with your own wall charger) is enough for a full night of sleep tracking, while 15 minutes gives you about 35% -- or eight hours of normal use. Thirty minutes will get you to 80%, and a full charge takes about an hour. Just make sure the charging puck you're using supports fast charging.Consistency in sleep tracking is key to unlocking the full potential of the watch's health features beyond just Sleep Score. Sleep apnea alerts, ovulation estimates, more robust vitals monitoring and even fall detection during overnight emergencies all depend on you actually wearing your watch to bed.As someone whose dad is about to undergo a potentially lifesaving heart procedure thanks to the Apple Watch's heart notifications and ECG, I'm a big believer in using its health and emergency features to their fullest. And for me, these seemingly small battery upgrades could have a big ripple effect on my health.5G and better connectivity on the Series 11If you're planning to wear your watch phone-free and opt for the cellular version of the Apple Watch Series 11, you'll also see some battery gains related to connectivity.That's because the Series 11 (along with the Apple Watch Ultra 3 and Apple Watch SE 3) is debuting 5G connectivity. Not only is it more power-efficient at maintaining a connection than previous Apple Watches (and even more efficient than 5G on your phone because it uses 5G RedCap, or 5G Reduced Capacity), the Ultra 3 and Series 11 are also better at holding onto a signal in areas that usually have spotty reception.Apple says this is thanks in part to an antenna diversity algorithm. In simple terms, the watch's two cellular antennas now work together: The algorithm can detect when coverage is weak and combine the signal strength from both antennas to boost your connection. This works across 5G and LTE, helping prevent frequent drop-offs that can drain your battery faster. In short: You get stronger, more power-efficient cellular connectivity -- even in places with notoriously bad coverage.Just know that cellular models cost about $100 more than the standard Wi-Fi version and typically carry a monthly service fee of around $10 (depending on your provider).A familiar design with a tougher glass The Series 11 has a more durable, scratch-resistant screen, but otherwise there's not much to report on in terms of design. Aside from a new space gray color option, I'd bet money most people couldn't tell the Apple Watch Series 10 from the Apple Watch Series 11 at a glance. I review smartwatches for a living, and the only difference I could find came from the spec sheet, with the Series 11 being a few decimal points heavier in weight, but otherwise the dimensions are identical.That said, this familiar design still works: You get the same thinner, lighter body introduced with the Series 10, the edge-to-edge screen with its high refresh rate smooth enough to show the second hand ticking, plus new watch bands and watch faces to play with.I'm notorious for going hard on my electronics (see my scratch and drop tests), so it's no surprise my Series 10 ended up looking like a 5-year-old's elbows after learning to ride a bike. In the six days I've been wearing the Series 11, I'm happy to report there isn't a single scratch yet. This could be one of those subtle upgrades that makes a big difference for people like me, though only time will tell whether this more scratch-resistant glass will truly hold up to my lifestyle.
The aluminum version of the Apple Watch Series 11 has a more scratch-resistant cover glass.  Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETWatchOS 26 brings a fresh look to the Series 11The exterior may feel familiar, but the UI definitely doesn't. The Apple Watch Series 11 ships with WatchOS 26 out of the box, which gives the interface a noticeable visual refresh with what Apple coined as a Liquid Glass transparency effect. It's the same aesthetic Apple brought to the iPhone this year, making the whole lineup feel more cohesive across devices. Some people love the glassy translucence, others hate it because of its more organic (less contrasty) look. Personally, I like the way it looks, but I must admit it's just a bit harder to read at a glance. (You can minimize the effect by turning on Reduce Transparency in the Settings app.)Beyond the visuals, WatchOS 26 brings several new features to all compatible Apple Watches, not just the Series 11. There's finally a Notes app on the watch, plus a redesigned Workout app that lets the Apple Watch auto-select the best music or media for your workout. The Series 11 adds a new gesture control that lets you silence an alarm, call or notification with a flick of the wrist. It's also rolling out to the Series 9 and later, as well as the Ultra 3 and SE 3.And then there's Workout Buddy, which, as the name suggests, gives you real-time motivation during runs, walks and seven other types of workouts. It's not quite the full-fledged coach some people were hoping for (or what Google announced on the Pixel 4), but after using it for almost two months in beta, I think it has a lot of potential. It feels personal and encouraging without coming across like an AI bot reading from a script. It's not particularly helpful to me now, beyond giving me my pace alerts in my ear, but I can see it being more helpful if Apple decides to expand it beyond feedback and into other types of health and fitness coaching. Bottom lineThe Apple Watch Series 11 is still my favorite of the bunch, largely because it's built on 2024's reigning champion, the Series 10. But the gap between it and the competition is narrowing, and if you're on a Series 9 or newer, you can safely sit this one out. The better battery life, 5G on cellular models and a more scratch-resistant screen are welcome but not essential, especially since the best new health features are also coming to older models.For anyone upgrading from an older watch, though, the Series 11 feels like a big leap with its longer battery life and sleeker design. If you don't need advanced health sensors such as ECG or the new hypertension alerts, though, the Apple Watch SE 3 is a better value, and the Apple Watch Ultra 3 is best for anyone chasing longer battery life and pro-level sports features. I'm admittedly biased toward getting every health feature possible, but I also don't have the wrist real estate or budget for the Ultra 3, so the Series 11 strikes the perfect balance. It's comforting to know that's not the only option.
VANESSA HAND ORELLANA
Lead Writer Vanessa is a lead writer at CNET, reviewing and writing about the latest smartwatches and fitness trackers. She joined the brand first as an on-camera reporter for CNET's Spanish-language site, then moved on to the English side to host and produce some of CNET's videos and YouTube series. When she's not testing out smartwatches or dropping phones, you can catch her on a hike or trail run with her family.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.