In Conversation podcast
Medical News TodayHealth ConditionsHealth ConditionsAlzheimer's & DementiaAnxietyAsthma & AllergiesAtopic DermatitisBreast CancerCancerCardiovascular HealthCOVID-19DiabetesEndometriosisEnvironment & SustainabilityExercise & FitnessEye HealthHeadache & MigraineHealth EquityHIV & AIDSHuman BiologyLeukemiaLGBTQIA+Men's HealthMental HealthMultiple Sclerosis (MS)NutritionParkinson's DiseasePsoriasisSexual HealthUlcerative ColitisWomen's HealthHealth ProductsHealth ProductsAllNutrition & FitnessVitamins & SupplementsCBDSleepMental HealthAt-Home TestingMen’s HealthWomen’s HealthDiscoverNewsLatest NewsOriginal SeriesMedical MythsHonest NutritionThrough My EyesNew Normal HealthPodcastsAllDoes the Mediterranean diet hold the key to longevity?AMA: Registered dietitian answers 5 key questions about fiber and weight lossHealth misinformation and disinformation: How to avoid itBrain health, sleep, diet: 3 health resolutions for 20255 things everyone should know about menopause3 ways to slow down type 2 diabetes-related brain agingToolsGeneral HealthDrugs A-ZHealth HubsNewsletterHealth ToolsFind a DoctorBMI Calculators and ChartsBlood Pressure Chart: Ranges and GuideBreast Cancer: Self-Examination GuideSleep CalculatorQuizzesRA Myths vs FactsType 2 Diabetes: Managing Blood SugarAnkylosing Spondylitis Pain: Fact or FictionConnectAbout Medical News TodayWho We AreOur Editorial ProcessContent IntegrityConscious LanguageFind CommunityBezzy Breast CancerBezzy MSBezzy MigraineBezzy PsoriasisFollow UsSubscribeIn Conversation podcastWritten by MNT Editorial Team on August 8, 2025Medical News Today’s In Conversation podcast engages with expert voices across various fields. The conversations focus on a range of topics, from the latest news in science to the deepest scientific conundrums.Share on PinterestDoes the Mediterranean diet hold the key to longevity?Can you eat your way to a longer, healthier life? And if so, what diet might best foster longevity? Over the past decade or so, a long string of studies has added to the evidence that a Mediterranean-type diet may do wonders for the body and mind. In this episode of In Conversation, Dr. Tom Barber, professor of endocrinology and obesity expert, helps us explore the evidence linking a Mediterranean diet to a longer, healthier life.In Conversation is an original podcast by Healthline Media. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.AMA: Registered dietitian answers 5 key questions about fiber and weight lossIn this Ask Me Anything episode, Medical News Today editors Yasemin Nicola Sakay and Maria Cohut ask registered dietitian Lisa Valente all about fiber — what it is and why we need it. They also discuss how much fiber everyone needs to consume, whether whole foods are better than supplements like psyllium husk, and whether fiber can help improve insulin sensitivity and aid weight loss.In Conversation is an original podcast by Healthline Media. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Health misinformation and disinformation: How to avoid itIn the age of viral content and fast and furious social media communication, health disinformation and misinformation are spreading more widely than ever. Why is this the case, and how can we learn to spot inaccurate and even malicious health information? Why do we fall so easily for false health info, and how can we update our mistaken beliefs? These are some of the questions we answer in this episode, with the help of our special guests, Prof. Stephan Lewandowsky, Chair in Cognitive Psychology at the School of Psychological Science, University of Bristol, United Kingdom, and Dr. Jenny Yu, MD, FACS, Chief Health Officer at RVO Health, the parent company of Medical News Today and Healthline.In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Brain health, sleep, diet: 3 health resolutions for 2025In this episode, editors and co-hosts Yasemin Nicola Sakay and Maria Cohut discuss some of the most significant studies of 2024 related to improving brain, heart, and metabolic health, focusing on sleep, diet, and exercise habits. They list the biggest takeaways from these findings and share three actionable resolutions that can help people improve their health in the new year.In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.5 things everyone should know about menopauseThis episode discusses some of the most important information everyone should have about perimenopause and menopause, in a world where, until recently, these key stages of life have received insufficient attention. Our special guest is Prof. Kate Clancy, professor of anthropology at the University of Illinois, a human reproductive ecologist who specializes in uterine health, feminist science, and feminist science studies.In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.3 ways to slow down type 2 diabetes-related brain agingIn this episode, editors and co-hosts Yasemin Nicola Sakay and Maria Cohut are joined by Dr. Thomas Barber, associate professor at the University of Warwick in the United Kingdom and honorary consultant endocrinologist.They discuss how type 2 diabetes affects cognitive health and the steps people can take to help slow down brain aging. They focus on two recent studies showing how diabetes is linked to Alzheimer’s as well as lifestyle changes that can protect brain health against the negative effects of diabetes.In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today. This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Toxic metals in tampons: Should you be worried?In this podcast episode, editors and co-hosts Maria Cohut and Yasemin Nicola Sakay discuss whether tampons, pads, and other menstrual products pose a threat to health, as a recent study found traces of 16 heavy metals, including lead and cadmium, in several tampon brands. Anna Pollack, PhD, MPH, professor of global and community health at George Mason University College of Public Health, joins the podcast as a special guest to discuss what these findings mean and whether people should be concerned.In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Can tattoos cause blood or skin cancer?In this podcast episode, editors and co-hosts Maria Cohut and Yasmin Nicola Sakay discuss whether having tattoos can increase the risk of different types of cancer, particularly blood cancer, as recent evidence from a Swedish cohort has suggested. Special guest Dr. Milena Foerster, who researches the link between tattoos and cancer at the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) of the World Health Organization (WHO), explains what we do and do not know about this association.In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.In Conversation: Can we really ‘outrun the Grim Reaper’?In this episode, Feature Editor Maria Cohut and Global News Editor Yasemin Nicola Sakay dive into the science behind how extreme exercise may help some people live longer. The study in question tracked a group of elite runners and found they could live an average of 5 years longer than the general population. Prof. Michael Papadakis, president of the European Association of Preventive Cardiology (EAPC), discusses the health benefits and risks associated with such forms of exercise and gives easy to follow advice.In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.In Conversation: What makes a diet truly heart-healthy?In this episode of our podcast, Feature Editor Maria Cohut discusses matters related to diet and heart health with Prof. Oyinlola Oyebode, PhD, from Queen Mary University of London, in the United Kingdom. Some of the questions we address are: Why are certain foods, regardless of whether or not they are plant-based, so bad for the heart? How does salt impact the cardiovascular system? And what makes a truly heart-healthy diet?In Conversation is a Healthline Media original podcast. This episode was produced by Flamingo Media for Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.In Conversation: Is intermittent fasting actually bad for your heart?This episode of our podcast takes a deep dive into intermittent fasting and its effects on health. Joining the conversation is Ali Javaheri, MD, PhD, assistant professor of medicine from the Center for Cardiovascular Research at Washington University. Dr Javaheri explains what intermittent fasting does to the body and discusses the benefits and dangers of this eating plan in light of a recent viral study that found 8-hour time-restricted eating may relate to a higher risk of cardiovascular death.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.In Conversation: What do we know about the weight loss plateau on Wegovy?In this episode of our podcast, we take a deep dive into the topic of semaglutide — or GLP-1 receptor agonist drugs — use for weight loss. How does semaglutide help with weight management, why do some people on Wegovy hit a weight loss plateau, and what are some issues to keep in mind when it comes to using semaglutide for weight loss? Dr. Simon Cork, senior lecturer in the Faculty of Health, Medicine and Social Care at Anglia Ruskin University in the United Kingdom helps us answer these and more questions.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.2023 in medicine: Artificial sweeteners, colon cancer, and male birth controlIn our wrap-up of 2023’s most pressing and perhaps controversial research in the health and wellness field, Medical News Today’s editors — Andrea Rice, Maria Cohut, and Yasemin Nicola Sakay — delve into three interesting topics: The WHO’s decision to declare sucralose a potential carcinogen, the symptoms of colon cancer and the worrying rise of cases in young people, and the still-elusive male birth control pill.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.In Conversation: Why exercise is key to living a long and healthy lifeHow do we prolong our longevity? Plenty of recent evidence suggests that exercise — in the correct amount and combination — can help us live longer, healthier lives. This episode of our podcast discusses how and why intentional physical activity prolongs our health span. Joining the conversation is Dr. Borja del Pozo Cruz, principal researcher in Applied Health Sciences at the University of Cadiz, who has studied the relationship between longevity and different forms of exercise, and Dr. Edwina Brocklesby — nicknamed “Iron Gran” — who is CEO of Silverfit and Britain’s oldest woman to have completed an Ironman triathlon.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.What do we know about the gut microbiome in IBD?Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) — an umbrella term for conditions including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis — affects millions of people worldwide, sometimes severely affecting their quality of life. How is the gut microbiome of a person with IBD different, and can we use diet to change it and help with disease management? To answer these and other questions, we are in conversation with Dr. Marcel de Zoete, associate professor in the Department of Medical Microbiology at UMC Utrecht in The Netherlands, who has studied the gut microbiome in IBD. Also joining us is Zosia Krajewska, who lives with IBD after receiving a diagnosis at age 14.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.My podcast changed meIn this episode, Dr. Hilary Guite and Medical News Today editors Maria Cohut and Yasemin Nicola Sakay discuss why it’s so hard for humans to change their minds and behaviors. They give us a peek into their daily lives while sharing the three podcast episodes that inspired them to change their habits surrounding nutrition, pain, and helping others. They also offer their own tips and tricks on how to spark purposeful and lasting behavioral change.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Can ‘biological race’ explain disparities in health?In this episode, we discuss why health disparities between different racial and ethnic groups, including those that surfaced during the COVID-19 pandemic, cannot be explained by biological race. We also explore how racism affects the health and well-being of future generations. Joining the conversation are Dr. Monique Rainford, obstetrician and gynecologist at Yale School of Medicine and author of the book “Pregnant While Black,” and Angela Saini, science journalist and author whose most recent work includes the book “Superior: The Return of Race Science.”This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Why Parkinson’s research is zooming in on the gutIn this episode of our podcast, we discuss why the gut microbiome is important in Parkinson’s disease and what researchers are doing to discover more about the link between Parkinson’s and gut health. Our guests are Dr. Ayse Demirkan, senior lecturer in AI multiomics for health and well-being at the University of Surrey in the United Kingdom, and Gary Shaughnessy, chair of trustees at Parkinson’s UK, who lives with Parkinson’s disease and is a staunch advocate of research into the condition.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Can diet and exercise reverse prediabetes?In this episode, Medical News Today investigates whether reversing prediabetes via lifestyle changes — such as diet and exercise — is possible. Joining the conversation with Dr. Hilary Guite and Global News editor Yasemin Nicola Sakay are Dr. Thomas Barber, associate clinical professor at Warwick Medical School and consultant endocrinologist at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire, and Angela Chao, Managing Editor at Healthline Media, who shared her experiences about how she reversed her prediabetes diagnosis.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Investigating the power of music for dementiaIn this episode of our podcast, we delve into the science behind how sounds and silence affect our cognitive health and seek to uncover whether music can be healing for people with dementia. Joining the conversation this month with Dr. Hilary Guite and global news editor Yasemin Nicola Sakay are Dr. Kelly Jakubowski, assistant professor in music psychology at Durham University in the United Kingdom, and Beatie Wolfe, singer, songwriter, and ambassador for the charity Music for Dementia, who witnessed music’s direct effect in a care home for people with dementia.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.How diet may help with endometriosisIn this episode, we discuss how and why diet could help manage the symptoms of endometriosis and which interventions might be the most effective. We are in conversation with Dr. Hana Kahleova, director of clinical research at the Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine — a nonprofit organization in Washington, DC — and Hannah Alderson, a registered nutritionist with the British Association For Nutrition And Lifestyle Medicine (BANT) and founder of The Positive Method – The Path to Happier Hormones. Dr. Kahleova is the co-author of a recent study looking at nutrition as a factor in the risk for and management of endometriosis. Alderson’s precepts for well-being stem from her own long journey seeking a diagnosis and treatment for PCOS and endometriosis.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Is the ketogenic diet right for autoimmune conditions?In this episode of our podcast, we discuss the possible benefits and drawbacks of adopting the ketogenic diet for managing chronic pain and autoimmune conditions. We also address the many controversies surrounding this diet. Joining the conversation with Dr. Hilary Guite and Global News editor Yasemin Nicola Sakay are Dr. Susan A. Masino of Trinity College, CT, who is the Vernon D. Roosa professor of Applied Science and author of “Ketogenic Diet and Metabolic Therapies: Expanded Roles in Health and Disease,” and Shea, who has trialed the diet with his lupus.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Can diet help improve depression symptoms?This episode of our podcast discusses the links between diet, the gut, and depression symptoms, asking one crucial question: Can changing our diet help improve symptoms of depression? Our guests are Dr. Najaf Amin, senior research associate in the Nuffield Department of Population Health at the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom, and Rachel Kelly, a U.K.-based mental health campaigner who has been outspoken about how diet helped treat her own depression.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Research highlights of 2022For our final “In Conversation” episode of 2022, Feature Editor Maria Cohut, Global News Editor Yasemin Sakay, and Managing Editor James McIntosh reflect on the research highlights of 2022. Topics include the twists and turns of dementia research, why scientists are studying psychedelics for mental health, and how stem cell research is advancing at a steady pace.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.How Viagra became a new ‘tool’ for young menIn this episode, we discuss the stigma surrounding male psychosexual health and how Viagra—the little blue ‘magic’ pill once only marketed to older males as an erectile dysfunction drug—is now becoming a new tool for young men. Joining the conversation with Dr. Hilary Guite and Global News editor Yasemin Nicola Sakay are Dr. Edward Ratush, board certified psychiatrist and co-founder of telepsychiatry and psychotherapy practice SOHOMD in the United States, Dr. Peter Saddington, accredited psychotherapist specializing in sexual addiction, counseling, and psychosexual therapy at Relate, and three guests who frankly share their experience with using Viagra.Editor’s note: This podcast includes commentaries that mention the use of illegal drugs. Medical News Today does not condone or encourage their use.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.What makes breast cancer come back?In this episode, we discuss breast cancer recurrence, why cancer spreads, and whether it is possible to reduce recurrence risk. Our guests are Dr. Rachael Natrajan, head of the functional genomics team in the Breast Cancer Now Toby Robins Research Centre at the Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) in London, and Dr. Liz O’Riordan, former consultant breast cancer surgeon and a breast cancer patient and advocate. She is co-author of The Complete Guide to Breast Cancer.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.How to understand chronic painIn this episode, we discuss all things chronic pain — from how it feels to live with it to how the body reacts to pain and transitions from an acute state to a chronic reactive state. Joining the conversation with Dr. Hilary Guite and Global News editor Yasemin Nicola Sakay are Dr. Tony L. Yaksh, professor of anesthesiology and pharmacology at the University of California, San Diego, who shares his insights about the latest research, and Joel Nelson, a longtime psoriatic disease and arthritis patient and advocate, who discusses his personal journey with pain.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.What is behind vaccine hesitancy?In this episode, we discuss vaccine hesitancy, what really makes people unsure about accepting vaccines, and whether science communicators can do anything to heal the relationship between the public and health organizations. We are in conversation with Prof. Maya Goldenberg, who is a professor of philosophy at the University of Guelph in Ontario, Canada, and specializes in the phenomenon of vaccine hesitancy, and reporter Aaron Khemchandani, a science communication MSc student at Imperial College London in the United Kingdom, who has studied the phenomenon of mistrust in science.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.The amazing story of hepatitis C, from discovery to cureFor World Hepatitis Day, Dr. Hilary Guite discusses hepatitis C’s journey, from discovery to cure. She talks with Prof. Graham Foster, professor of hepatology at Queen Mary University of London, and Rachel Halford, CEO of the Hepatitis C Trust, who discusses the stigma surrounding the disease and shares her treatment experience. In this conversation, these experts also explore what the future may hold — in both educational efforts and treatments — for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) and whether elimination might be possible.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.New directions in dementia researchIn this podcast, presenter Dr. Hilary Guite and feature editor Dr. Maria Cohut discuss dementia, how it can manifest, and what researchers are doing to better understand this syndrome. Our guests are Dr. Kamar Ameen-Ali, a lecturer in biomedical science at Teesside University in the United Kingdom specializing in neurodegenerative diseases, and Paula Field, a caregiver for her mother, who lives with Alzheimer’s disease.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Can psychedelics rewire a depressed, anxious brain?As part of Mental Health Awareness month, Dr. Hilary Guite discusses the neuroscience behind anxiety and depression with Dr. Jacques Ambrose, the director of Columbia University’s Irving Medical Center. They also consider the effects of existing and new treatment approaches, such as psychedelic drugs and ketamine. For this conversation, Hilary is also joined by Olivia, who has long-standing anxiety and depression, and Yasemin Nicola Sakay, Medical News Today’s global news editor.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Why climate change matters for human healthIn this installment of our podcast, we discuss climate change and how it affects health, directly and indirectly, from deepening food insecurity to facilitating the spread of infectious diseases. Our guests are Prof. David Pencheon, honorary professor of health and sustainable development at the University of Exeter in the United Kingdom and founder of the Sustainable Development Unit for NHS England, and Dr. Marina Romanello, a research fellow at the University College London Institute for Global Health and research director of the Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change.Fragments of the song “From Green to Red,” featured in our podcast, were used with the permission of the artist, Beatie Wolfe.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.What does the latest research say about multiple sclerosis?Earlier this year, the most compelling evidence yet that the Epstein-Barr virus may cause multiple sclerosis (MS) appeared in the journal Science. In this installment of the In Conversation podcast, Dr. Hilary Guite asks Dr. Marianna Cortese, research associate at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and co-author of the study, about its findings and implications. Could it lead to better treatments for MS? Dr. Guite also hears from Dr. Antje Ronneberger, a recently retired family doctor, about her lived experience with MS.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Long COVID’s cardiovascular implicationsIn this podcast we discuss the most recent findings about long COVID’s cardiovascular implications, with a focus on a puzzlingly common syndrome: postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS). The podcast features Dr. Lesley Kavi, trustee and chair of PoTS UK, cardiovascular medicine specialist Dr. Artur Fedorowski, Dr. Tae Chung, director of the Johns Hopkins POTS Program, and Angela Meriquez Vázquez, COVID-19 long hauler and Body Politic president.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Getting to the heart of the matterWinter pressures and COVID-19 have catalyzed a blood supply crisis around the world. As part of National Blood Donor Month in the United States, Dr. Hilary Guite investigates blood transfusions with Maria Cohut, Medical News Today’s feature editor, and Dr. Baia Lasky, medical director of the American Red Cross. Hilary and Maria also speak with Shaun, a blood donor, about the process of giving blood, and hear from blood transfusion recipient-turned-donor, Brian.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.2021 in Conversation: The year in medical researchIn this podcast, Medical News Today’s editors — Tim Newman, Ana Sandoiu, Maria Cohut, and Yasemin Sakay — discuss some of 2021’s most striking research and controversial topics, including bacteria-eating viruses, how systemic racism affects visual representations of skin conditions, what we know about COVID-19 vaccines’ reported impact on menstrual cycles, and the importance of safety guidance and restrictions in the pandemic timeline.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.I100 years of insulinNow that 100 years have passed since the discovery of insulin, Dr. Hilary Guite investigates the past, present, and future of this wonder drug. Maria Cohut, Medical News Today’s feature editor, explores the discovery of insulin and asks Virginie, who is living with type 1 diabetes, about the challenges of being dependent on the injectable therapy. Also, Dr. Tom Barber, associate professor at the University of Warwick in the United Kingdom and an honorary consultant endocrinologist, explains how insulin regimens can mimic the natural actions of the hormone and why it is so important to provide insulin access to all who need it.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.The neurocognitive impact of long COVIDWith the pandemic still upending life around the world, Dr. Hilary Guite discusses the latest research on the underlying mechanisms behind lasting neurological symptoms following a COVID-19 diagnosis. The podcast features neurologist Prof. Gabriel de Erausquin, microbiologist and immunologist Dr. Lavanya Visvabharathy, and COVID-19 long hauler Dr. Kerry Smith. Follow Dr. Smith’s neuro-long-COVID journey on instagram: @Rosecottagedoc.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.MenopauseDr Hilary Guite and Dr Yella Hewings-Martin, Medical News Today’s Senior Research Editor, cast light on the conversation around menopause. Why is there such little recognition of menopause or perimenopause symptoms? Can therapies help reduce the severity of menopause? And, how can healthy conversation around womens’ health be facilitated? With Dr Louise Newson and Rachel New.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Cancer: A promising futureFor National Cancer Research Month in the United States, Dr. Hilary Guite discusses the future of cancer treatments with Dr. Yella Hewings-Martin, Medical News Today‘s senior research editor. Dr. Hewings-Martin also speaks with Dr. Santosh Kesari, a neurologist and neuro-oncologist at the Saint John’s Cancer Institute in Santa Monica, CA, about his experiences with treating brain cancer and the promising clinical trials involving personalized mRNA vaccines.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Sleep: In conversationDr. Yella Hewings-Martin, Medical News Today‘s senior research editor, explores the intricate relationship between sleep and health. Prof. Nancy Collop, Dr. Afifa Shamim-Uzzaman, and Dr. Aric Prather join her to discuss a range of topics — from the effects of wearable technology on sleep to its influence on the immune system and other aspects of health.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Covid-19: Writing historyNow that we are 1 year into the pandemic, Medical News Today‘s senior research editor Dr. Yella Hewings-Martin asks: How did journalists cope with covering COVID-19? This podcast features Sarah Mitroff from CNET, Roz Plater and Julia Ries from Healthline, and Tim Newman from Medical News Today.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Work-life balance and burnout: Junior doctorsDr. Hilary Guite talks with Fred, a second year junior doctor, about how working conditions have changed over the last 40 years in the United Kingdom.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Covid-19: Volunteering for a vaccine trialDr. Yella Hewings-Martin, Medical News Today‘s senior research editor, investigates what it is like to participate in a COVID-19 vaccine clinical trial. Pharmacist Lindsay Slowiczek, drug content integrity manager at Healthline Media, and Nathan Richardson, executive vice president at Red Ventures, join her for this discussion.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.Covid-19: Is it time for male leaders to “lean out”?Ana Sandoiu, a news editor at Medical News Today, discusses COVID-19 gender disparity with four experts: Sara Dada, Arush Lal, Laura Jung, and Irene Torres.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.HIV: a generation of changeDr. Yella Hewings-Martin at Medical News Today explores both how living with HIV has changed and what lies ahead. She discusses these topics with Prof. Robert Garofalo and Christopher, both of whom are living with HIV.Please note that this podcast contains content that some listeners may find distressing.This podcast is also available on Spotify, Apple Podcasts, and other platforms.“”UncategorizedShare this articleWritten by MNT Editorial Team on August 8, 2025Latest newsOzempic may help protect against diabetes-related blindnessHigh-fat diet may affect memory within days, mouse study suggestsCould taking cocoa extract supplements daily prevent age-related heart disease?Keto may aid weight loss but lead to high cholesterol, mouse study suggestsVision loss due to aging may be remedied by new eye dropsRelated CoverageA brief introduction to physiologyMedically reviewed by Deborah Weatherspoon, Ph.D., MSNPhysiology is a study of the functions and processes that create life. A sub-section of biology, physiology investigates how elements ranging from…READ MOREHow mitochondria respond to exercise, high fat dietNew research uses transgenic mice to offer fresh insights into how mitochondria respond to intense exercise and a high fat diet.READ MOREBones: All you need to knowAn introduction to bones. We discuss their function, the different types of bones in the human body, and the cells that are involved.READ MOREWhy do we hiccup?Medically reviewed by Meredith Goodwin, MD, FAAFPHiccups can occur without any clear cause, and there is often no reliable way to stop them happening. Learn more about the science behind hiccups here.READ MOREA list of health screenings by ageMedically reviewed by Angelica Balingit, MDMedical professionals advise that people get various health screenings as babies, adults, and older adults. Here are the recommendations by age.READ MORE© 2025 Healthline Media UK Ltd, London, UK. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Healthline Media is an RVO Health Company. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. See additional information.About UsContact UsTerms of UsePrivacy PolicyPrivacy SettingsAdvertising PolicyHealth TopicsHealth HubsMedical AffairsContent IntegrityNewslettersYour Privacy Choices© 2025 Healthline Media UK Ltd, London, UK. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Healthline Media is an RVO Health Company. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. See additional information.© 2025 Healthline Media UK Ltd, London, UK. All rights reserved. MNT is the registered trade mark of Healthline Media. Healthline Media is an RVO Health Company. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. See additional information.AboutCareersAdvertise with usOUR BRANDSHealthlineMedical News TodayGreatistPsych CentralBezzy