Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS Formula One Team & Nasdaq Join Forces to Accelerate Innovation | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
press center
press release
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS Formula One Team & Nasdaq Join Forces to Accelerate Innovation
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 One Team & Nasdaq Announce Integrated Multi-Year Brand Partnership
Published
May 1, 2025 7:32AM EDT
MIAMI, Fl. – [May 1, 2025] – Today the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team and Nasdaq (Nasdaq: NDAQ) announced a multi-year brand partnership – aligning one of the most successful sports teams in history and one of the world’s leading financial technology companies.
Under the new partnership, Nasdaq will become an official partner of the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team, who stands apart as one of the most cutting-edge organizations in F1 today. The partnership underscores Nasdaq's deep commitment to innovation and the companies that champion it.
“We’re excited to welcome Nasdaq, a global leader in financial technology, to the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team partner family,” said Toto Wolff, CEO of Mercedes-AMG-PETRONAS F1 Team. “Partnerships are most powerful when they’re built on shared values. Nasdaq is a partner that not only understands the importance of cutting-edge technology but also embraces our commitment to continuous growth and resilience.”
“Our partnership with the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS Team embodies our shared passion for technology and performance, as well as our deep commitment to building the most competitive teams in the world,” said Adena Friedman, Chair and CEO of Nasdaq. “Together we will accelerate growth for our respective organizations while we create exceptional experiences for fans of the sport.”
Partnering with the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team is a strategic step for Nasdaq, deepening connections with its clients who engage with F1. As one third of the Team’s partners already list on Nasdaq’s exchange, the collaboration further strengthens the company’s ability to connect with clients and amplify its position as a trusted partner across the global financial system. F1’s audience of 1.5 billion and over 763 million fans across 21 countries, offers unparalleled reach across the globe.
“This partnership with the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team is a powerful alignment of two performance-driven cultures with global mindsets,” said Brian Buckley, Chief Marketing Officer at Nasdaq. “At Nasdaq, we’re focused on helping our clients navigate complexity, accelerate growth and solve their toughest challenges. Together with the
Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team, we’ll showcase how precision, innovation, and strategic partnership can drive success – on the track and in the world of global business.”
“From pioneering technologies to forging strategic alliances with forward-thinking brands, we're looking forward to collaborating with Nasdaq to benefit our fans, our partners, and our team,” said Richard Sanders, Chief Commercial Officer of Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team. “As part of the partnership, Nasdaq and the Mercedes-AMG F1 Team will collaborate on storytelling and experiences at the intersection of business, technology, and sports, underscoring the strong alignment between the brands and their audiences.”
The Team will enjoy access to Nasdaq MarketSite – which is the home of Nasdaq’s bell ceremonies and the company's iconic LED video “tower” – as well as additional commercial marketing and media opportunities. Nasdaq will have an integrated brand presence at every F1 race during the partnership and both organizations will benefit from co-branded content and merchandise. The partnership will debut at this year’s Miami Grand Prix, where Nasdaq’s brand will appear on the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team’s Pit Wall Canopy and the Engineers’ Central Island Station.
About the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team
Mercedes was born to race - and we've been doing it since 1901. Today, the Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team competes at the pinnacle of motorsport: the FIA Formula One World Championship.
The pioneering spirit of our company founders lives on in our commitment to innovation and performance. As the world's original automobile manufacturer, Mercedes-Benz has defined the cutting edge of technology for over a century. Today, our F1 team exists to demonstrate the best of the brand's performance on the global stage.
Based in Brackley and Brixworth, UK, over 2,000 committed team members work with a singular mission: to win the world championship. From 2014 to 2021, we secured a record eight consecutive Constructors' Championships, and we are hungry for more.
Our journey is not just about performance on the track; we also strive to make a positive impact on the world and inspire future generations. We are proud signatories of the Climate Pledge, and we are leading the way in building a more sustainable and inclusive sport.
For more information, please visit www.mercedesamgf1.com.
About Nasdaq
Nasdaq (Nasdaq: NDAQ) is a leading global technology company serving corporate clients, investment managers, banks, brokers, and exchange operators as they navigate and interact with the global capital markets and the broader financial system. We aspire to deliver world-leading platforms that improve the liquidity, transparency, and integrity of the global economy. Our diverse offering of data, analytics, software, exchange capabilities, and client-centric services enables clients to optimize and execute their business vision with confidence. To learn more about the company, technology solutions, and career opportunities, visit us on LinkedIn, on X @Nasdaq, or at www.nasdaq.com.
Media Contacts:
Clare Robertson (Mercedes-AMG PETRONAS F1 Team)+44 7872 103423; crobertson@mercedesamgf1.com
Jordan Bennett (Nasdaq) +1 860 913-8890; Jordan.Bennett@nasdaq.com
The views and opinions expressed herein are the views and opinions of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of Nasdaq, Inc.
In This Story
NDAQ
Nasdaq Press Center
Read the latest press releases, request a press kit, and get in touch with our press team.
learn more
Market Makers
Sign up for our newsletter to get the latest on the transformative forces shaping the global economy, delivered every Thursday.
Thanks for submitting!
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
My Quotes
My Quotes
My European Quotes
Watchlist
Portfolio
Add/Edit Symbols
View as Table
Add symbols now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Stocks, Funds, ETFs and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Instruments
View as Table
Add instruments now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Shares, Indexes, ETP and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Symbols
Edit Watchlist
Your Watchlist is empty.
Add/Edit Symbols
Create your Watchlist to save your favorite quotes on Nasdaq.com. Log in or create a free account to get started.
/
Outsmart the market with Smart Portfolio analytical tools powered by TipRanks. Go to Smart Portfolio
Back
Add a symbol to your watchlist
Most Active
Data is currently not available
Edit My Quotes
Add up to 25 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to My Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Edit My European Quotes
Add up to 25 instruments
To add instruments:
Type a instrument or company name. When the instrument you want to add appears, add it to My European Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple instruments separated by spaces.
These instruments will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Your symbols have been updated
You'll now be able to see real-time price and activity for your symbols on the My Quotes of Nasdaq.com.
Continue
Data is currently not available
Edit Watchlist
Add up to 20 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to Watchlist by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Opt in to Smart Portfolio
We are currently experiencing technical difficulties, please try again.
Smart Portfolio is supported by our partner TipRanks. By connecting my portfolio to TipRanks Smart Portfolio I agree to their Terms of Use.
Submit
Cancel
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies