Breast cancer - Care at Mayo Clinic - Mayo Clinic
This content does not have an English version.This content does not have an Arabic version.
Skip to contentCare at
Mayo Clinic Patient-Centered Care About Mayo Clinic Request Appointment Find a Doctor Locations Clinical Trials Connect to Support Groups Patient & Visitor Guide Billing & Insurance Departments & Centers International Services Contact UsPatient & Visitor Guide Health
Library Diseases & Conditions Symptoms Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Healthy Lifestyle Mayo Clinic Health Letter & BooksMayo Clinic Health Letter & Books For Medical
Professionals Medical Professional Resources Refer a Patient Continuing Medical Education AskMayoExpert Mayo Clinic Laboratories Video Center Journals & Publications Mayo Clinic Alumni AssociationContinuing Medical Education Research & Education
at Mayo ClinicResearch Research at Mayo Clinic Research Faculty Laboratories Core Facilities Centers & Programs Departments & Divisions Clinical Trials Institutional Review Board Postdoctoral Fellowships Training Grant ProgramsEducation Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional DevelopmentMayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Giving to
Mayo Clinic Give Now Giving to Mayo Clinic Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us to GiveMake a Donation
Request appointment Log inSearchMenu Request appointment Donate Diseases & conditions Find a doctorCare at Mayo Clinic Patient-Centered Care About Mayo Clinic Request Appointment Find a Doctor Locations Clinical Trials Connect to Support Groups Patient & Visitor Guide Billing & Insurance Departments & Centers International Services Contact UsPatient & Visitor Guide Health Library Diseases & Conditions Symptoms Tests & Procedures Drugs & Supplements Healthy Lifestyle Mayo Clinic Health Letter & BooksMayo Clinic Health Letter & Books For Medical Professionals Medical Professional Resources Refer a Patient Continuing Medical Education AskMayoExpert Mayo Clinic Laboratories Video Center Journals & Publications Mayo Clinic Alumni AssociationContinuing Medical Education Research & Education at Mayo ClinicResearch Research at Mayo Clinic Research Faculty Laboratories Core Facilities Centers & Programs Departments & Divisions Clinical Trials Institutional Review Board Postdoctoral Fellowships Training Grant ProgramsEducation Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional DevelopmentMayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science Giving to Mayo Clinic Give Now Giving to Mayo Clinic Frequently Asked Questions Contact Us to GiveMake a Donation
Diseases & Conditions
Breast cancer
Request an Appointment
Symptoms &causesDiagnosis &treatmentDoctors &departmentsCare atMayo Clinic
Print
Breast cancer care at Mayo
Mayo Clinic specialists provide compassionate care for people with breast cancer.
People with breast cancer who seek care at Mayo Clinic will find dedicated breast cancer specialists who provide expert, personalized care using the latest treatment innovations and technology.
Your Mayo Clinic care team
Care at Mayo Clinic
Breast health specialists in the Mayo Clinic Breast Clinic coordinate care for people with breast cancer. These internal medicine doctors who focus solely on caring for people with breast cancer and other breast conditions will meet with you to understand your needs and make arrangements for necessary tests and appointments. Often, your appointments can be coordinated over a matter of days in one facility.
Mayo Clinic offers a truly integrated practice, with a variety of specialists regularly working together and meeting to discuss cases. This ensures that you receive whole-person care that takes into account all of your needs. Your care team carefully weighs all of your treatment options to create a plan that's personalized for you.
Your breast cancer care team might include:
Internal medicine specialists who focus on breast conditions.
Breast cancer surgeons.
Genetics professionals.
Medical oncologists.
Nurses.
Pathologists.
Physical therapists.
Plastic surgeons.
Psychologists.
Radiation oncologists.
Radiologists.
If you have other health conditions that could be affected by cancer treatment, your team may include additional specialists. For instance, cardiologists from the Cardio-Oncology Clinic may join your team if you have concerns related to your heart. If there are concerns about your kidneys, nephrologists from the Onco-Nephrology Clinic may join your team.
Mayo Clinic doctors from multiple specialties work together to create a breast cancer treatment plan tailored to each person's needs and goals.
Advanced diagnosis and treatmentMayo Clinic doctors have access to the latest technology and techniques to diagnose and treat breast cancer, including clinical trials investigating the latest in medical innovation. Your breast cancer team keeps up on the latest evidence and incorporates this into your treatment plan.
Breast cancer diagnosis begins with high-quality breast imaging that draws from:
Highly trained staff. Imaging is done by radiologists who specialize in breast imaging, including many who've completed additional, advanced training programs.
Specialized screening. Experts create screening programs for people with dense breast tissue and those with a high risk of breast cancer using supplemental screening techniques.
Latest technology. Advanced imaging techniques include digital mammogram, 3D mammogram (breast tomosynthesis), breast MRI and molecular breast imaging (MBI).
Ongoing research. Breast imaging researchers are studying new technology for diagnosing breast cancer, including dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI and contrast-enhanced digital mammogram.
The expertise and training of Mayo Clinic breast radiologists combined with advanced technology means your diagnosis can be made quickly and accurately.
Mayo Clinic breast cancer specialists offer the latest treatment options designed to increase the effectiveness of treatment and reduce side effects.
Breast cancer treatment innovations are improving the ability to control cancer while reducing the impact of treatment on your daily life and increasing your satisfaction with your appearance after surgery. Mayo Clinic achieves this by:
Offering a full range of treatment options, including surgery, chemotherapy, hormone therapy, radiation therapy, targeted therapy and clinical trials.
Reducing the risk of heart damage in left-sided breast cancer by using innovative radiation therapy techniques to shape the energy beams around the tumor, such as proton therapy.
Limiting lymph node removal to reduce the risk of surgery-related lymphedema by using techniques such as sentinel lymph node biopsy and neoadjuvant therapy.
Avoiding the need for a second operation after lumpectomy with intraoperative pathology and frozen section analysis — procedures that involve pathologists analyzing tissue samples during surgery to make sure all the cancer is removed during the operation.
Condensing treatment to less than two weeks so that people with small, low-risk cancers experience the smallest impact on their daily lives with an expedited breast cancer treatment combining lumpectomy and accelerated partial breast irradiation.
Improving your confidence in your appearance after surgery by using innovative techniques that optimize the appearance of your reconstructed breast while maintaining excellent cancer control (oncoplastic surgery), such as combining lumpectomy with a breast lift or breast reduction.
Utilizing advanced surgical techniques to perform muscle-sparing breast reconstruction techniques to create a new breast using your own tissue.
The range of treatments available at Mayo Clinic means your care team has many options to create a personalized treatment plan that works for you.
Experienced Mayo Clinic specialists take the time to help you understand your options and help you feel confident in making decisions about your care.
Experience you can trustMayo Clinic doctors have extensive experience caring for people with breast cancer:
More than 12,000 people seek breast cancer care each year.
Nearly 1,000 people undergo breast cancer surgery each year.
Research shows that people who are treated for breast cancer at medical centers that treat many cases of breast cancer have better outcomes than do people treated at medical centers that treat breast cancer less frequently.
Mayo Clinic doctors specialize in care for:
All types of breast cancer including rare types, such as angiosarcoma, inflammatory breast cancer, Paget's disease of the breast and phyllodes tumor.
All stages of breast cancer from precancerous and noninvasive tumors to metastatic cancer.
People with a high risk of breast cancer based on a strong family history or the presence of genes that increase the risk receive care through services such as the High Risk Breast Clinic. Experts in this clinic develop personalized risk-management plans. The plans offer options that might include additional screening, breast cancer chemoprevention and preventive surgeries, such as prophylactic mastectomy and prophylactic oophorectomy.
Breast cancer survivors receive supportive therapy and continuing care during and after treatment to control side effects and restore function.
At Mayo Clinic, specialists consider your goals and preferences when designing a personalized treatment plan.
Personalized breast cancer treatmentYour breast cancer care team works closely with you to create a personalized treatment plan based on your particular situation, as well as your needs and goals.
Elements of a personalized care plan might include:
Reviewing all available treatment options. You'll have the opportunity to meet with a variety of specialists to help you understand all of your treatment options. Your appointments will be coordinated so you can make a timely decision about your care.
Creating convenient treatment schedules that reduce your need for additional travel and time when possible, such as lumpectomy with accelerated partial breast irradiation and mastectomy with immediate breast reconstruction. Mayo Clinic doctors can work with your local doctors to coordinate chemotherapy and other medicines, so you won't always need to travel for care.
Coordinating supportive services. During and after treatment, you'll be connected to specialists who can help you heal and regain function, such as those who focus on rehabilitation, integrative medicine, sleep, women's health, nutrition, stress management and breast cancer survivorship.
Tailoring treatment based on genetics. Mayo Clinic doctors use precision medicine for breast cancer to choose treatments based on your genetic makeup or the genetics of your cancer cells. Examples include testing for CYP2D6 before prescribing tamoxifen and analyzing tumor cells to select targeted drug treatments.
Connecting you to other breast cancer survivors. Your care team can connect you with support groups and mentorship programs that pair you with a cancer survivor who can answer questions and provide support.
Show transcript for video
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Paula Hill, patient: My name is Paula Hill. I have lived here in the valley for over 30 years. I'm the mother of four grown children and the wife of a retired firefighter. I had been for a routine mammogram and the results came back normal. Shortly following that, I had my annual exam with my regular GYN, who did a breast exam and found a lump. I then got a phone call a few days later saying that it was, in fact, cancer. And that I should start investigating treatment. But I was also familiar with Mayo Clinic because my father had been treated about five years previous with some very cutting edge technology for a heart condition. So I included Mayo in my search for treatment knowing that they had probably the best and most advanced team available.
Barbara Pockaj, M.D., Surgical Oncologist, Mayo Clinic: I was the first one that Paula saw when she came to Mayo Clinic. And that's not uncommon in patients who are newly diagnosed with breast cancer. They come and meet with the surgeon first.
Paula Hill: When my husband and I got home that day we knew that Mayo was really where we wanted to be. The treatment plan that was laid out for me was six months of chemotherapy, followed by surgery, followed by 20 rounds of radiation, and then one year of Herceptin treatments. But what I liked about the plan was that surgery wasn't first. And that they were taking an opportunity to shrink the tumor so that there was a very good chance I could have just a lumpectomy versus a full mastectomy and that really appealed to me.
Dr. Pockaj: What I told Paula she had good news, bad news. Bad news is she had the breast cancer and it was an aggressive breast cancer. The good news is these aggressive breast cancers really respond to treatment.
Donald Northfelt, M.D., Associate Medical Director, Breast Clinic at Mayo Clinic: After we had reviewed her case we recognized that she was qualified to participate in a clinical trial that we had going on at the time. This trial is called the I-SPY 2 trial. And it was a study of various treatment options for locally advanced breast cancer. The study included testing of new drugs specifically designed to work against the HER2 protein and in that way to favorably treat her cancer.
Paula Hill: One of the things we wanted to know was how far advanced the trial was and how much success they'd had with the drug. So we learned that the trial was in the later phases. That it had already been used on human beings. I wasn't the first. And that all of the regular protocol treatment for breast cancer--my particular breast cancer--would also be included in addition to the trial drug. So I would not miss out on any treatment that I would normally get. This would be in addition to, in hopes that it would
shrink the tumor even further.
Dr. Pockaj: Paula did go on to the I-SPY trial and we had really remarkable response.
She had a big tumor, with lymph nodes positive, and after it was done, we had the imaging and nothing showed up on imaging. That doesn't always mean we don't find anything at surgery, but it means it shrunk a lot and we have really all the options open.
Dr. Northfelt: This is why we come to work every day. We hope to see these kinds of outcomes for our patients. We're even more grateful when we see it happen in the context of a clinical trial.
In the clinical trial, new ideas are being applied to the treatment of cancer. We're always so hopeful that those are going to lead to better outcomes for our patients.
Paula Hill: I actually have resumed many--well, I've resumed my whole life. And I have a completely different outlook on life now. I think I'm much happier, less picky, not so much a perfectionist, and I really just enjoy everything that comes my way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There is a problem with information submitted for this request.
Review/update the information highlighted below and resubmit the form.
Get the latest breast cancer information from Mayo Clinic delivered to
your inbox.
Sign up for free and receive the latest on breast cancer treatment, care
and management.
I would like to learn more about:
The latest on newly diagnosed
breast
cancer
Up-to-date information on
recurrent
breast cancer
Specialized treatment information
for
high risk breast cancer
Email address
ErrorEmail field is required
ErrorInclude a valid email
address
Subscribe
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
We use the data you provide to deliver you the content you requested. To provide you with the most relevant and helpful information, we may combine your email and website data with other information we have about you. If you are a Mayo Clinic patient, we will only use your protected health information as outlined in our Notice of Privacy Practices. You may opt out of email communications at any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link in the email.
Thank you for subscribing!
You'll soon start receiving the latest health information you
requested in your inbox.
Sorry something went wrong with your subscription
Please, try again in a couple of minutes
Retry
The Mayo Clinic experience and patient stories
Our patients tell us that the quality of their interactions, our attention to detail and the efficiency of their visits mean health care like they've never experienced. See the stories of satisfied Mayo Clinic patients.
How a different mammogram experience led to lifesaving cancer diagnosisMelissa Neuman dreaded getting mammograms. Her small, dense breasts made the screening exceptionally uncomfortable and painful. So Melissa put off getting an annual mammogram until she felt she couldn't delay any longer. For about five years, Melissa had been plagued with a nagging pain just under her left breast. In February 2023, a recommendation from a friend led her to seek care from Jessica Johnson, an OB-GYN nurse practitioner with Mayo Clinic Health System in Owatonna, Minnesota. "She took me seriously,…
Goldilocks surgery: Finding the perfect balance in breast cancer reconstructionKathleen Stewart was used to waiting for test results. She'd been called back for additional mammogram images many times and had already undergone two biopsies of suspicious areas in her breasts. In March 2022, as she waited for a call about the results of a breast biopsy, the resident of La Crosse, Wisconsin, felt she already knew what they would be. "I had already had that internal conversation that if I was diagnosed, I knew…
Expertise and rankings
Mayo Clinic specialists draw on their expertise to provide you with exactly the care you need.
Mayo Clinic doctors are widely respected for their expertise and experience in diagnosing and treating breast cancer.
Nationally recognized expertiseOutside organizations recognize Mayo Clinic breast cancer specialists through accreditations, grants and rankings:
Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center meets the strict standards for a U.S. National Cancer Institute comprehensive cancer center. These standards recognize scientific excellence and a multispecialty approach focused on cancer prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Mayo Clinic is one of a select group of medical centers in the United States to be recognized as a Specialized Program of Research Excellence (SPORE) for breast cancer research, funded by the National Cancer Institute. To earn a highly competitive SPORE grant, institutions must demonstrate a high degree of collaboration between first-rate scientists and clinicians and show excellence in translational research projects.
Mayo Clinic doctors and researchers participate in research cooperatives, such as the Alliance for Clinical Trials in Oncology, which gives people with cancer access to the latest clinical trials.
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida, and Mayo Clinic in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona, are ranked among the Best Hospitals for cancer by U.S. News & World Report. Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, is ranked as the top hospital in Minnesota and Mayo Clinic in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona, is ranked as the top hospital in Arizona.
Sharing expertise with the communityMayo Clinic breast cancer specialists use their expertise in the community by participating in:
Breast cancer screening services for underserved groups and community clinics.
Appointments via video technology for Alaska Native women with a high risk of breast cancer.
Community awareness events.
Locations, travel and lodgingMayo Clinic has major campuses in Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; Jacksonville, Florida; and Rochester, Minnesota. The Mayo Clinic Health System has dozens of locations in several states.
For more information on visiting Mayo Clinic, choose your location below:
Mayo Clinic's campus in Arizona
Mayo Clinic's campus in Florida
Mayo Clinic's campus in Minnesota
Mayo Clinic Health System
Mayo Clinic Healthcare, located in London
Costs and insuranceMayo Clinic works with hundreds of insurance companies and is an in-network provider for millions of people.
In most cases, Mayo Clinic doesn't require a physician referral. Some insurers require referrals or may have additional requirements for certain medical care. All appointments are prioritized on the basis of medical need.
Learn more about appointments at Mayo Clinic.
Please contact your insurance company to verify medical coverage and to obtain any needed authorization prior to your visit. Often, your insurer's customer service number is printed on the back of your insurance card.
More information about billing and insurance:
Mayo Clinic in Arizona, Florida and Minnesota
Mayo Clinic Health System
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Request an appointment
Doctors & departments
July 26, 2025
Print
Living with breast cancer?
Connect with others like you for support and answers to your questions in the Breast Cancer support group on Mayo Clinic Connect, a patient community.
Breast Cancer Discussions
Aromatase Inhibitors: Did you decide to go on them or not?
1216 Replies
Wed, Sep 17, 2025
chevron-right
Emotional aftermath following breast cancer treatment
145 Replies
Wed, Sep 17, 2025
chevron-right
Radiation induced Brachial-Plexus Peripheral Neuropathy Patients
43 Replies
Mon, Sep 15, 2025
chevron-right
See more discussions
Related
Breast cancer chemoprevention
Breast Cancer Education Tool
Breast cancer staging
Breast cancer types
Breast self-examination
Common questions about breast cancer treatment
Dragon Boats and Breast Cancer
Genetic Testing for Breast Cancer
Genetic testing for breast cancer: Psychological and social impact
HER2-positive breast cancer: What is it?
Infographic: Breast Cancer Risk
Lumpectomy
Modified radical mastectomy
Nipple changes
Paulas story A team approach to battling breast cancer
Pink Sisters
Simple mastectomy and modified radical mastectomy
The Long Race Beating Cancer
Tumor size
Weight Loss After Breast Cancer
What is breast cancer? An expert explains
Show more related content
Associated Procedures
3D mammogram
Bone scan
Brachytherapy
BRCA gene test
Breast cancer risk assessment
Breast cancer supportive therapy and survivorship
Breast cancer surgery
Breast MRI
Breast reconstruction with flap surgery
Breast reconstruction with implants
Breast self-exam for breast awareness
Cancer treatment
Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy for breast cancer
Chest X-rays
Complete blood count (CBC)
CT scan
Hormone therapy for breast cancer
Lumpectomy
Mammogram
Mastectomy
Molecular breast imaging
MRI
Positron emission tomography scan
Precision medicine for breast cancer
Radiation therapy
Radiation therapy for breast cancer
Sentinel node biopsy
Ultrasound
X-ray
Show more associated procedures
News from Mayo Clinic
Mayo Clinic treats first person in the US with a novel radiopharmaceutical therapy for breast cancer
Aug. 01, 2025, 11:00 a.m.
CDT
Mayo Clinic Q and A: Beyond tired with cancer-related fatigue
May 13, 2025, 03:30 p.m.
CDT
Researchers resolve uncertainty in BRCA2 testing, improving cancer risk assessment and patient care
Jan. 08, 2025, 05:01 p.m.
CDT
A shared journey through breast cancer
Oct. 31, 2024, 02:01 p.m.
CDT
Mayo Clinic experts highlight advances in breast cancer research: Decreasing the need for chemotherapy and reducing the intensity of radiation therapy
Oct. 30, 2024, 07:23 p.m.
CDT
The 4 types of systemic therapy for breast cancer
Oct. 29, 2024, 03:00 p.m.
CDT
Top 10 questions about breast cancer answered
Oct. 04, 2024, 02:23 p.m.
CDT
Mayo Clinic Minute: Treating breast cancer through surgery
Oct. 02, 2024, 02:30 p.m.
CDT
New study finds triple-negative breast cancer tumors with an increase in immune cells have lower risk of recurrence after surgery
April 02, 2024, 04:31 p.m.
CDT
Understanding triple-negative breast cancer and its treatment
Jan. 04, 2024, 04:00 p.m.
CDT
Mayo Clinic's DNA study reveals BRCA1 mutations in 3 sisters, prompts life-changing decisions
Nov. 04, 2023, 11:00 a.m.
CDT
Beyond BRCA1/2: Pinpointing the risk of inherited breast cancer genes
Oct. 28, 2023, 11:00 a.m.
CDT
17-gene signature linked to remission after triple-negative breast cancer treatment
Oct. 21, 2023, 11:00 a.m.
CDT
Mayo Clinic Minute: Does soy increase breast cancer risk?
Oct. 17, 2023, 06:30 p.m.
CDT
Mayo Clinic Minute: The importance of supplemental screenings for dense breasts
Sept. 26, 2023, 02:28 p.m.
CDT
Show more news from Mayo Clinic
Products & Services
A Book: Beyond Breast Cancer
LISTEN: What to do when you've been diagnosed with breast cancer
Show more products and services from Mayo Clinic
Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, Mayo Clinic in Jacksonville, Florida, and Mayo Clinic in Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona, have been recognized among the top Cancer hospitals in the nation by U.S. News & World Report.
Learn more about this top honor
Breast cancerSymptoms&causesDiagnosis&treatmentDoctors&departmentsCare atMayoClinic
CON-20167633
Diseases & Conditions
Breast cancer
5X Challenge is here! 5X My Gift!Your gift today can have 5X the impact on AI research and technology. But hurry — the match challenge ends 9/19.
5X My Gift!
Find a doctor Explore careers Sign up for free e-newslettersAbout Mayo Clinic
About this Site Contact Us Locations Health Information Policy Medicare Accountable Care Organization (ACO) Media Requests News Network Price TransparencyMedical Professionals
AskMayoExpert Clinical Trials Mayo Clinic Alumni Association Refer a PatientBusinesses
Executive Health Program International Business Collaborations Facilities & Real Estate Supplier InformationMedical Professionals
AskMayoExpert Clinical Trials Mayo Clinic Alumni Association Refer a PatientBusinesses
Executive Health Program International Business Collaborations Facilities & Real Estate Supplier InformationStudents
Admissions Requirements Degree Programs Student & Faculty PortalStudents
Degree Programs Admissions Requirements Student & Faculty PortalResearchers
Research Faculty LaboratoriesInternational Patients
Appointments Financial Services International Locations & OfficesCharitable Care & Financial Assistance
Community Health Needs Assessment Financial Assistance Documents – Arizona Financial Assistance Documents – Florida Financial Assistance Documents – MinnesotaFollow Mayo Clinic X YouTube Facebook LinkedIn InstagramGet the Mayo Clinic app
Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Notice of Nondiscrimination Digital Accessibility Statement Advertising & Sponsorship Policy Site Map Manage Cookies Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Notice of Nondiscrimination Digital Accessibility Statement Advertising and Sponsorship Policy Site Map Manage CookiesLanguage:English English Español العربية 简体中文© 1998-2025 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). All rights reserved.
Language:English English Español العربية 简体中文