Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology job with Springer Nature Ltd | 12845095
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
Employer
Springer Nature Ltd
Location
New York City, New York (US)
Salary
Associate Editor: $80,000 | Senior Editor: $95,000
Closing date
12 Nov 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Physics
Job Type
Editor
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Company
Job Details
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
Organisation: Nature Portfolio
Location: New York or Madrid
Application Deadline: October 12th, 2025
About Springer Nature
Springer Nature is one of the leading publishers of research in the world. We publish the largest number of journals and books and are a pioneer in open research. Through our leading brands, trusted for more than 180 years, we provide technology-enabled products, platforms and services that help researchers to uncover new ideas and share their discoveries, health professionals to stay at the forefront of medical science, and educators to advance learning. We are proud to be part of progress, working together with the communities we serve to share knowledge and bring greater understanding to the world. For more information, please visit about.springernature.com and follow @SpringerNature.
About the Brand
Nature Portfolio is a flagship portfolio of journals, products and services including Nature and the Nature-branded journals, dedicated to serving the scientific community. Visit Nature.com and follow @Nature / @NaturePortfolio.
Nature Portfolio is a world leader in publishing high-quality research. The Nature Portfolio journals include Nature, the Nature Research journals, the Nature Reviews journals, Nature Communications as well as the Communications journals and npj series.
About the Role
Do you love science but feel that a career at the bench isn’t enough to sate your desire to learn more about scientific research? Do you enjoy reading papers outside your chosen area of research? If the answer is ‘yes’ to any or all these questions, you could be the person we’re looking for to join the Nature Portfolio editorial team.
To help us build on the success of the portfolio, we’re seeking an editor to join the Nature Nanotechnology team. We especially encourage applications from physicists or materials scientists with expertise in one or more of the following research areas: nanophotonics, nonlinear optics, near-field optics, ultrafast spectroscopy, metamaterials, nanoscale thermal transport, or related applications (e.g., displays, cameras, optical computing, encryption technologies). The ideal candidate will have a critical eye, a deep understanding of their subject and interests beyond, and be able to think on their feet.​
This is a permanent position within the Nature Portfolio. The successful candidate will primarily support Nature Nanotechnology and may collaborate closely with other Nature Portfolio journals as needed. Please note that responsibilities and journal assignments may evolve over time in response to portfolio needs.
Nature Nanotechnology is a prestigious international monthly journal covering all areas of nanoscience and nanotechnology.
The responsibilities include:
Handling original research papers and working closely with the editorial team on all aspects of the editorial process, including manuscript selection and overseeing peer review.
Making well-reasoned editorial decisions on submitted manuscripts in the light of expert advice.
Contributing to content and strategy in this area at Nature Nanotechnology and other Nature Portfolio journals as needed.
Commissioning, editing content such as Reviews, Comments, News&Views and writing editorials.
Liaising extensively with editors at other journals in the Nature Portfolio and with experts in the international scientific community.
Attending conferences and visiting research institutions.
To be considered for the position, you will have:
A PhD (or equivalent) in a field related to nanophotonics.
Additional research experience is valuable but not needed.
A thorough understanding of recent trends and developments in the field is essential.
A passion for science and a thirst to learn more. You must be able to demonstrate the breadth of your interest in scientific research, both within and beyond your speciality.
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, including fluent English (written and spoken).
The ability to read and assess the novelty, context and implications of research submitted to the journal from different areas of nanophotonics research.
Be eager to travel and meet scientists worldwide, learn more about them and their research, and help them learn more about us and what we are looking for in the papers we seek to publish.
Editorial experience is not required, although applicants with editorial experience may be considered for Senior Editor positions.
The successful candidates will report to the Chief Editor of Nature Nanotechnology. This demanding and intellectually stimulating role is based in either our New York/New Jersey or Madrid office. We are open to applications from internal candidates from any of our offices. The position is offered on a permanent basis and its starting date is envisaged as soon as possible.
To Apply, please upload the required materials below to your application:
1. A cover letter explaining your interest in the position, salary expectation and preferred office of employment.
2. A CV detailing your education, relevant employment history, list of published scientific papers, and any other achievements helpful to demonstrate your suitability for the position.
3. A 350-400-word discussion of a recent scientific development in any area of nanophotonics (preferably outside your immediate area of expertise) that you have found particularly exciting (stating why).
Closing Date: October 12th, 2025 - Candidates will be considered as they apply.
Springer Nature US provides a comprehensive and competitive benefits package which includes the benefit offerings listed below:
•        Medical, Dental and Vision
•        401(k) with company match and contribution
•        Hybrid office working policy, Summer Hours, and paid time off
•        Flexible Spending and Commuter programs
•        Multiple Life insurance options
•        Disability coverage
•        Tuition Assistance
•        Voluntary benefits: Identity Theft Protection, Pet Insurance, and Legal Assistance Insurance
•        Employee Assistance Program
•        Family friendly benefits and a variety of employee discounts
•        An array of Employee Social Networks
US Annualized Base Salary Range: Associate Editor: $80,000 / Senior Editor: $95,000. The salary offer may vary based on work experience, education, skill level and equity. The US salary range does not align with the salary ranges in other countries when converted to the currency of that country.
US Annualized Base Salary Range: Associate Editor: $80,000 / Senior Editor: $95,000. The salary offer may vary based on work experience, education, skill level and equity. The US salary range does not align with the salary ranges in other countries when converted to the currency of that country.
Springer Nature is an Equal Opportunity Employer that complies with the laws and regulations set forth in the following https://www.eeoc.gov/sites/default/files/2023-06/22-088_EEOC_KnowYourRights6.12ScreenRdr.pdf poster.
At Springer Nature, we value the diversity of our teams and work to build an inclusive culture, where people are treated fairly and can bring their differences to work and thrive. We empower our colleagues and value their diverse perspectives as we strive to attract, nurture and develop the very best talent. Springer Nature was awarded Diversity Team of the Year at the 2022 British Diversity Awards. Find out more about our DEI work here: https://group.springernature.com/gp/group/taking-responsibility/diversity-equity-inclusion.
If you have any access needs related to disability, neurodivergence or a chronic condition, please contact us so we can make all necessary accommodation.
For more information about career opportunities in Springer Nature please visit https://springernature.wd3.myworkdayjobs.com/SpringerNatureCareers/
Company
Learn more about this company
Visit this company’s hub to learn about their values, culture, and latest jobs.
Visit employer hub
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Send job
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Learn more about this company
Visit this company’s hub to learn about their values, culture, and latest jobs.
Visit employer hub
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Postdoctoral Research Associate
London (Central), London (Greater) (GB)
Associate Publisher or Publisher
New York City, New York (US)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software