5 brilliant mods to transform Hollow Knight once you've beaten Silksong
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
These 5 brilliant mods can transform Hollow Knight for you once you've beaten Silksong
Credit: Source: BBYBoiBarti via NexusMods
By
Samarveer Singh
Published 5 days ago
Gaming has been Samarveer’s greatest passion, and the Literature graduate in him takes immense joy in dissecting games for their themes, messages, and impact. Samarveer holds a deep appreciation of gaming, and considers the platform to be the most immersive and impactful across all media. He can be found engaging with gaming communities online, always ready to debate the finer points of ray tracing or itching to write an 8-page collegiate thesis on any game that impacts him emotionally.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
If you're anything like me, you've probably already burned through Hollow Knight: Silksong once, and maybe even twice. The game is phenomenal and there's no denying it, but once the credits rolled, I was staring at the screen, wondering what to do with my hands. I could've gone into another Metroidvania, since there's just so many amazing ones out there, but you can't blame me for wanting to dive back into the comfort food that is the original Hollow Knight. Still, I did want something new, at least, and that's where mods come in. The community has been cooking up some wild and inventive creations that can completely transform how players experience Hallownest, and they all work together to make a familiar masterpiece feel brand new again.
These mods require Lumafly to install, which offers one-click installations for over 500 mods for Hollow Knight.
Palette Swapper is a visual mod that refreshes what you remember of Hollow Knight's art style
Like rediscovering a hidden parallel world right underneath the surface
Sometimes, it isn't a new boss fight, a lore-heavy expansion, or some sort of brutally punishing gauntlet that will help refresh a game's experience for you. Sometimes, all it takes is a splash of color, and I don't mean that figuratively. Hollow Knight's Palette Swapper mod lets you play around with the aesthetic of Hallownest in ways that feel subtle, charming, and endlessly replayable. It's a purely visual mod, yes, but it changes the color palettes of the Knight, the enemies, and, of course, the world around you. You can either set up custom palettes for specific vibes you're looking for, or do what I did, which was just going wild with neon, pastel, or cursed color schemes. It's lighthearted, stylish, and surprisingly refreshing for a game that's usually dripping in moody blues and greys with its art design. Truth be told, it's like discovering some sort of hidden alternate version of Hallownest that was waiting for you under the surface all along.
Benchwarp lets us take a taste of home wherever we go
No more Stag Stations, just straight warping
If there's one thing that Hollow Knight players love almost as much as atmosphere and lore, it's benches. Benches are safety. They are progress. Benches are home. But what if you could bend that system to your will? That's where the Benchwarp mod comes in, and it's the kind of quality-of-life game-changing mod that genuinely holds the potential to make even your tenth run feel different and fresh. Instead of slogging back to the same old respawn points, Benchwarp lets you warp to benches across Hallownest from a neat little pause menu, or even deploy your own custom benches wherever you please. Want to drop a bench right before a nightmare boss attempt? Benchwarp makes it as easy as pressing a button. It even makes it easy to jump across the entire darn map without having to sit through a whole other tram ride. The best thing about Benchwarp is that it doesn't really cheapen the challenge or affect the game's overall difficulty. Instead, it simply gives you more control over how you move through the world of Hallownest, which, to me, makes it one of the best mods for Hollow Knight. Heck, at times, I could've sworn that this mod was a part of the base game, and not a user-created mod — that's how natural it feels to use it in-game.
Pale Court feels like the perfect official expansion
This fan-made expansion respects the depth and lore of the base game
Fan-made DLC for an incredible game rarely ever matches the levels of quality and depth from the original game, but Pale Court is one mod that breaks the mold boldly. This isn't a tacky mod that just reskins areas and calls it a day, either. Pale Court expands the game in a way that feels natural, adding new boss fights around the Five Great Knights of Hallownest and other characters from the lore. With Pale Court, what were once just characters you knew from the lore of the game become fleshed, high-difficulty encounters. This genuinely feels like official Team Cherry content, and that's the greatest compliment a fan-made expansion like Pale Court can get. But that compliment isn't undeserving at all — the designs, the music, and the arenas are designed with a high level of polish, and it even leans further into Hollow Knight's combat depth, giving even those who've finished the game a few times over some new challenges. Pale Court really manages to give you that 'new content' feeling when you return to Hollow Knight, and it never once sacrifices the soul of the base game, or its depth, to deliver that to you.
The Randomizer mod is the breath of fresh air Hollow Knight needs
This is the one that will keep you guessing and thinking on your feet, 8 years later
Look, if you've played Hollow Knight enough times to know every corner of Hallownest like the back of your hand like yours truly, there just isn't a lot that many mods can really do. Cue the Randomizer mod, which flips your knowledge upside down. This mod can take all your carefully learned routes and mental maps and scramble them into a miserable chaos. And it doesn't stop there, either. Abilities, charms, spells, and keys — this randomizer shuffles everything around, which means that your progression will no longer ever be where you expect it to be. That early dash or wall jump you plan on using might be hidden halfway across the map this time around, and in their place, there could be a completely useless trinket. What makes this mod shine, though, is how it forces you to unlearn comfort and adapt. Suddenly, I could no longer retrace old paths. I found myself improvising, experimenting, and questioning what I thought I knew. This is the mod that finally made Hollow Knight once again feel like an unpredictable journey, and despite how frustrating it can be at times (a lot), it was still a breath of fresh air.
The Solaire of Astora Mod turns the Knight into everyone's favorite NPC
Praise the... Absolute Radiance?
One of the people I will think about breathing out my last would probably be Solaire of Astora. One of the most interesting NPCs this medium has ever seen, Solaire came to us in the first Dark Souls game, and since then, the community hasn't forgotten him, nor should it. A knight obsessed with the sun, Solaire was one of the only characters in all of Lordran who was warm, kind, and friendly to us, and that meant everything. Eventually, this man became an embodiment of warmth itself, and running into him over the course of the first Dark Souls game felt like meeting a friend every time. As such, this is one of the first mods I chose to install on my third run of Hollow Knight. After all, this way, I get to see Solaire be his cutest self, while giving me a solid reason to happily revisit the game with a familiar friend on the screen.
Hollow Knight
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
Metroidvania
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
90/100
Critics Rec:
99%
Released
February 24, 2017
ESRB
E10+ for Everyone 10+: Fantasy Violence, Mild Blood
Developer(s)
Team Cherry
Publisher(s)
Team Cherry
Engine
Unity
Franchise
Hollow Knight
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
SUBSCRIPTION
DIGITAL
PHYSICAL
While it's not made by Nintendo, Hollow Knight is a phenomenal Metroidvania game that looks fantastic and feels right at home on the Switch.
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
These mods freshen up a familiar masterpiece
At the end of the day, Hollow Knight doesn't really need mods to be legendary, since it achieved that tag years ago all on its own. But after Silksong, when you're itching for just one more run, these mods really can give you exactly what you need, and that is something fresh and surprising. After all, Hallownest has always been this wonderful land of mystery, challenge, and reinvention. With the right mods, it can do it all over again, even for those who know every corridor by heart.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 16, 2025
4 NotebookLM power user secrets you didn't know about
Sep 16, 2025
The Raycast beta for Windows already improves one of my favorite features
Sep 17, 2025
These are gaming's most iconic NPCs who stole the spotlight
Sep 16, 2025
Windows lives on the C: drive, and the reason it's not called A: or B: goes back to the 1970s
More from our brands
Hollow Knight Silksong: How to Unlock Tool Slots and Upgrade Crests
How to Unlock All Trophies in Silksong (Complete Achievement Guide)
Silksong: Best Tips for Beginners
All simple key locations in Hollow Knight: Silksong
Silksong Needs To Improve On These 10 Things From Hollow Knight To Be A Successful Sequel
Once I learned Silksong's most important skill, I almost quit the game
Hollow Knight: Silksong - How To Complete Every Delivery Quest
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
19 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
6 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I migrated my self-hosted services from one Proxmox node to another, and it was shockingly easy
I use these Microsoft Teams tricks for flawless communication
5 BIOS settings gamers forget to change
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.