Mamdani slow to get Democrats' endorsements : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Mamdani slow to get Democrats' endorsements Zohran Mamdani is leading in the polls in the NYC Mayor's race. Kamala Harris says he's earned Democratic backing, but some party leaders have been slow to endorse the Democratic-Socialist candidate.
Politics
Former VP Harris endorses Mamdani for NYC Mayor as some Democrats stay silent
September 23, 202511:48 AM ET
Brian Mann
New York mayoral candidate Zohran Mamdani attends a news conference in the Bronx where he was endorsed by Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie on September 17, 2025 in New York City. The endorsement from a significant Bronx politician comes after New York Governor Kathy Hochul wrote an opinion piece in the New York Times declaring her support for Mamdani.
Spencer Platt/Getty Images/Getty Images North America
hide caption
toggle caption
Spencer Platt/Getty Images/Getty Images North America
Former Vice President Kamala Harris is endorsing Zohran Mamdani in the New York City mayor's race.
The move comes as other top Democrats have shied away from Mamdani, despite his landslide win in the Democratic primary in June. "Look as far as I'm concerned he's the Democratic nominee and he should be supported," Harris said during an appearance Monday on MSNBC, but she also appeared to downplay his national significance. "He's not the only star," Harris said. Harris's backing is notable as many Democratic Party leaders have so far declined to back Mamdani, a member of the Democratic Socialist Party who has been critical of Israel's war in Gaza, which began after Hamas's deadly terror attack on Oct. 7, 2023.
Sponsor Message
Speaking this month with the New York Times, Mamdani said he would order the NYPD to arrest Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on international war crime charges if the Israeli leader entered New York City. "This is something that I intend to fulfill," Mr. Mamdani told the Times.
This month, an international UN commission concluded Israel has committed genocide in Gaza, an accusation Israeli officials reject. Some Democratic leaders have also distanced themselves from Mamdani because of his progressive stance on economic policies, including a call for a rent freeze, free childcare, and higher taxes for the wealthy and corporations. "Socialism does not work and his proposed plans would make New York a less competitive city and state,' said Rep. Tom Suozzi, a moderate Democratic congressman from Long Island who announced he won't back Mamdani. New York's Democratic Governor Kathy Hochul endorsed Mamdani in an editorial in the New York Times earlier this month, describing him as "a leader who is focused on making New York City affordable — a goal I enthusiastically support." Mamdani has also won strong backing from progressive leaders, including Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Democrat who represents parts of the Bronx and Queens, and Sen. Bernie Sanders, an independent from Vermont.
Sponsor Message
But two of the country's most powerful Democrats, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, both from New York, have so far declined to back Mamdani's bid to lead the nation's largest city. The chair of New York's state Democratic Party, Jay Jacobs, also released a statement earlier this month saying he would refuse to back Mamdani because of their sharply differing views on Israel and other policy issues.
"I reject the platform of the so-called 'Democratic Socialists of America' and do not believe that it represents the principles, values or policies of the Democratic Party," Jacobs wrote. Polls show Mamdani holds a commanding lead in the mayor's race against a packed field that includes current Mayor Eric Adams, former Democratic Governor Andrew Cuomo and Republican Curtis Sliwa.
A Sept. 9 survey by the Siena Research Institute found Mamdani at 46 percent in a four-way race,
with Cuomo in second place at 24 percent, Sliwa at 15 percent and Adams with 9 percent.
Some Democrats who back Mamdani have been fiercely critical of party leaders who've stayed on the sidelines. After Jacobs announced that he wouldn't endorse his party's candidate, state Senator Mike Gianaris called the decision "disgraceful." "The chair of the Democratic Party refusing to support the candidate clearly selected by the voters of the Democratic Party," Gianaris wrote on the social media platform X. "If he won't perform that most basic responsibility of a party leader, what exactly is he doing over there?"
Zohran Mamdani
Kamala Harris
New York City
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor