Japan to subsidize undersea cable vessels over 'very serious' national security concerns — will front up to half the cost for $300 million vessels bought by NEC | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Cyber Security
The FCC wants to ban Chinese tech from the undersea cables that connect the U.S. to the rest of the world
Tech Industry
Red Sea undersea cable cuts that slowed internet over the weekend blamed on commercial shipping
Networking
Crew of Russian 'shadow fleet' tanker charged with intentionally sabotaging undersea cables
Tech Industry
Japanese shipping company partners with Turkish outfit to build a 73MW floating data center
Supercomputers
Nvidia GPUs and Fujitsu Arm CPUs will power Japan's next $750M zetta-scale supercomputer
Tech Industry
CHIPS Act funding could herald an era where the U.S. is not offering grants, but buying equity
Cyber Security
U.S. earmarks $1B for 'offensive cyber operations' despite broader efforts to slash cybersecurity spending
Semiconductors
U.S. gov't seizes $7.4 billion semiconductor research fund created under Biden admin, calling it 'illegal'
Tech Industry
Starlink-powered drone narco-sub intercepted by Colombian Navy
Semiconductors
TSMC’s 2nm leak is considered ‘not critical’
Semiconductors
China bets on DUV as EUV blockade reshapes chipmaking — but it won't dethrone ASML's advanced lithography, for now
Semiconductors
TSMC reportedly cuts Chinese chipmaking tools from 2nm fabs as suppliers face scrutiny due to emerging new US restrictions
Tech Industry
China Tells Tech Giants to Halt Nvidia H20 Orders After U.S. Official’s ‘Addiction’ Remark
Tech Industry
Multiple undersea cable cuts in the Red Sea, hampering internet performance
Semiconductors
Ex-Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger gives Japan's new leading-edge chipmaker advice, says Rapidus needs unique tech to compete with TSMC
Networking
Japan to subsidize undersea cable vessels over 'very serious' national security concerns — will front up to half the cost for $300 million vessels bought by NEC
News
By
Jowi Morales
published
16 September 2025
These ships cost $300 million apiece.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Shutterstock)
Japanese officials are set to offer subsidies to NEC, one of the country's biggest tech companies, to purchase cable-laying ships capable of traversing oceans. According to the Financial Times, Tokyo is willing to cover as much as half of the acquisition cost of these vessels. With each ship estimated to cost around $300 million, Japan is seemingly ready to spend half a billion dollars or more to allow NEC to have unfettered access to its own cable-laying vessels, a matter the government now considers of vital importance to national security.NEC is one of the largest layers of undersea cables and the biggest one in Asia, having already installed over 400,000 km globally. It currently competes with US-based SubCom, the French government-owned Alcatel Submarine Networks, and China’s HMN Tech. All of these companies have their own fleets, with each of them owning between two and seven vessels. On the other hand, NEC does not own any cable-laying ships and instead leases them from other operators.The company currently rents a subsea cable-laying vessel from a Norwegian corporation, with the charter expected to expire next year. Aside from that, it would contract various specialist ships as needed to serve its needs, especially as demand for undersea cables increases within the Indo-Pacific region. The company also occasionally rents smaller cable-laying vessels from Japanese companies NTT and KDDI, but they’re not equipped for traversing oceanic routes and can only work within regional waters.
You may like
The FCC wants to ban Chinese tech from the undersea cables that connect the U.S. to the rest of the world
Red Sea undersea cable cuts that slowed internet over the weekend blamed on commercial shipping
Crew of Russian 'shadow fleet' tanker charged with intentionally sabotaging undersea cables
Undersea cables are crucial for connecting countries to the rest of the world, and adversaries have increasingly been attacking and sabotaging this relatively unprotected infrastructure. Their placement in international waters means that their destruction isn’t automatically an overt act of war, and the responsible vessels often have murky ownership, making deniability easy. It could also often be chalked up as an accident, so prosecuting offending ships and crews is difficult, if not politically sensitive.It has gotten to the point that the Taiwanese Coast Guard is conducting patrols to protect the 24 undersea cables connecting the island to the rest of the world. This came within a year after several high-profile incidents of cuts to undersea internet cables were reported across the globe, starting with a disruption between Finland and Sweden in November 2024, followed by outages between Finland and Estonia in December. Then, in January, a Chinese freighter was suspected of damaging an internet cable that links the U.S. and Taiwan, with another ship suspected of cutting another cable the following month.Because of these incidents, the Japanese government thought that it would be better for NEC to have its own ships. That way, it does not have to rely on charters and rentals, which can bottleneck its operations and prevent it from responding as quickly as possible to cable-laying and cable-repair operations, the report cites officials who say the current lack of ships is a national security risk. "The Japanese government thinks this situation is very serious, so we are thinking we need to make some intervention," one official told FT.Nevertheless, NEC purchasing its own vessels, even at subsidized cost, is still a hefty outlay for the company. “Owning a vessel is a huge fixed cost — that’s all well when the market is growing, but when the tech bubble bursts like it did in 2000, then it becomes simply a big cost,” NEC Senior Director for the Submarine Network Division Takahisa Ohta told the Financial Times. “Thankfully, the market is booming now, so one option is to acquire our own ship, and it’s something we’re considering.”Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.
See all comments (1)
Jowi MoralesSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterJowi Morales is a tech enthusiast with years of experience working in the industry. He’s been writing with several tech publications since 2021, where he’s been interested in tech hardware and consumer electronics.
Read more
The FCC wants to ban Chinese tech from the undersea cables that connect the U.S. to the rest of the world
Red Sea undersea cable cuts that slowed internet over the weekend blamed on commercial shipping
Crew of Russian 'shadow fleet' tanker charged with intentionally sabotaging undersea cables
Japanese shipping company partners with Turkish outfit to build a 73MW floating data center
Nvidia GPUs and Fujitsu Arm CPUs will power Japan's next $750M zetta-scale supercomputer
CHIPS Act funding could herald an era where the U.S. is not offering grants, but buying equity
Latest in Networking
SoftBank beams 5G to phones from the sky in successful stratospheric test flight
Acer Predator Connect T7 mesh router review: Expensive and outclassed
Taiwan increases defensive patrols around 24 undersea cables
Netgear Orbi 370 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Dual-band Wi-Fi 7 hardware finally makes Orbi affordable
World's first laser communication link between a plane and satellite ran at 1 Gbps
TP-Link Deco BE68 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Class-leading 6 GHz performance and competitive pricing
Latest in News
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production — could use TSMC's Arizona fab to avoid tariff fallout
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
bit_user
An unavoidable question would seem to be just where such a vessel would be manufactured. Acquiring such a ship could pose a somewhat ironic conflict of interests.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.