I'm an Older Mom, and My Kids Miss Out on a Lot - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Parenting
I was 39 and my husband was 46 when our daughter was born. I'm concerned about the future as an older parent.
Essay by
Jane Ridley
The author, pregnant for the second time at the age of 42, with her 2-year-old daughter in September 2010.
The author
2025-09-18T17:21:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I'm Gen X and had my first child a month before my 40th birthday.
My boomer husband is seven years older than me and was 46 when she was born.
Raising kids was challenging from the start, and it's gotten harder to be a hands-on parent as I age.
I celebrated my 40th birthday with a party at a swanky rooftop bar in Manhattan.
Usually, I'd sink a few glasses of wine on such a happy occasion. But on that milestone birthday, I stopped at one because I was nursing the month-old baby sitting next to me in her car seat.My first child arrived just 4 ½ weeks before the festivities. I found out I was pregnant at the age of 39 in September 2007, and she was born in May the following year.
The medical profession has largely retired the ghastly term "geriatric mother." However, like any pregnant woman over the age of 35, I fell into the category of "advanced maternal age."I followed my mom's lead because she had my sister at almost 35 and me when she was two months shy of 38. The timing was unusual for the 1960s. But at elementary school, I wasn't aware that she was older than other mothers at the school gates.Then, one weekend when I was in middle school, she adamantly refused to strap on ice skates and join my sister and me on the rink. "You don't want to break a bone when you're my age," she said. I was confused. Now, four decades later, I know exactly what she meant.
My husband is a boomer, and I'm a Gen XerMy husband, who is seven years older than I, is one of the last of the boomer generation, while I'm a Gen Xer. Now, we are 64 and 57, respectively, and while we try to stay fit and healthy, we are wary of the physical activities we used to enjoy, such as skiing.
The author with her newborn on her 40th birthday in June 2008.
The author
Meanwhile, the younger parents of my kids' friends think nothing of tackling a black run or rock-climbing. Our reluctance to participate makes us feel old. Not only that, my daughter and her brother, born in 2010 when I was 42, have been denied family vacations to fun and adventurous places, such as ski resorts. Year after year, we have taken them on more sedate visits to the English countryside where I was born.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
They have never complained, but I wonder whether there is some resentment underneath. My eldest recently asked whether I wanted to join her at a kickboxing class. I made a dumb joke about straining my groin. She laughed, but her expression remained disappointed nonetheless.
She is too young to remember, but I wasn't the fastest person on my feet when she bolted toward an open gate in the playground as a toddler. I was fine at tasks like pushing her on the swing or playing in the sandbox, but I wasn't the type of mom who competed in the sack race at the annual block party.I'm concerned about the futureIf I'm honest, I've been pretty tired since the kids were little. And it wasn't just because of a lack of sleep. I used to scold my mom for telling our relatives that my husband and I, who met in later life, found parenting "exhausting" and "challenging." But deep down, I knew she was right.But it's not all about what we can and can't do. I'm concerned about the future — I'll be 60 when my son graduates from high school — and the fact that I won't be a hands-on grandma if or when my children have their own families makes me a little sad.
The author with her family in December.
The author
I've met several grandparents who are the primary carers. Many appear to have boundless energy and enthusiasm for babysitting. I won't be able to keep up with a preschooler.I take comfort in the knowledge that longevity runs in the family. My mom turned 95 last month. Like my mom in her late 40s, I might not be able to ice skate for fear of broken bones, but I can make up for it in other ways.I'm a big fan of '80s music and blast it in the car. My older teen sings along to the Aha classic "Take On Me" when we're driving together. In fact, she has uploaded it to Spotify.
Do you have a story to share about your family and the way you raise your children? Contact this reporter at jridley@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
Essay
Parenting
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account