The Apple Watch SE 3 is the best deal right now - but I'm not upgrading for 2 big reasons | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
The Apple Watch SE 3 is the best deal right now - but I'm not upgrading for 2 big reasons
The refreshed Apple Watch SE 3 offers competitive value, but I won't be replacing my Watch SE 2. This is why.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 9:08 a.m. PT
The Apple Watch SE 3.  Nina Raemont/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysAfter three years, Apple just upgraded the base model Watch SE. Despite competitive improvements, the SE remains a core wearable.If you're coming from an older model SE and want more, you may skip the SE 3 for a Series 10 or 11.Apple launches new iPhones yearly, but doesn't do the same with its watches. The base model Apple Watch SE, in fact, had not been refreshed since the release of the SE 2 in 2022. This year, Apple launched an elevated but affordable option to compete with the lower end of the smartwatch market. The Watch SE 3 is a glorious update.Also: Apple Watch SE 3 vs. Watch SE 2: I compared the two models, and there's a clear winnerIt's still the smallest display, the weakest in brightness, and the cheapest model overall, at $250. But Apple came to win with the upgrades. The Watch SE 3 has 18-hour battery life and an S10 chip (the same as in the more expensive Watch Series 10, 11, and Ultra 3 models). This advanced chip brings an always-on display, fast-charging, and 5G for the first time. New to the SE watch is sleep apnea detection and sleep scores, a significant update from the basic sleep data provided by the SE 2.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Apple Watch SE 3 It may offer less flashy features than its siblings, but the latest Apple Watch SE is a great deal on a high-quality wearable.
View at Apple The SE 3 even adds temperature sensing for users to track their menstrual cycle. Of course, it still keeps users looped into the Apple ecosystem, receiving texts, emails, and more. It's a beautifully executed refresh that was much needed, and no surprise that wearables editor Nina Raemont recommends the model the most. But I won't be upgrading. Here's why. The Watch SE 2 still meets my needs
The Apple Watch SE 2 with the Nomad Sport Band in limited edition Glow.  Kayla Solino/ZDNETI dove into this earlier this month with the release of the Watch SE 3. It's stunning, and admittedly a good buy -- for a specific user. Raemont noted in her review that the Apple Watch SE 3 is the smartwatch for first-time buyers and budget shoppers. I'm totally with her on that. I initially bought my Watch SE 2 in as an introduction to Apple's features, and it's been an excellent investment for me, especially since I bought it on sale for $179. It's served every purpose I wanted, and it still does. Although the many upgraded features in the Watch SE 3 are very nice (and equally tempting), my needs are at the root of my evaluation process. I bought a Watch SE 2 to ease myself into smart wearable territory, generate a lifestyle shift, and become comfortable with core features without spending too much money. Almost two years later, I still get that from my Watch SE 2.
Also: Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older modelsIf anything, I've had time to understand what other features I may want in a future smart wearable, and I recognize that I'd like a bit more than what Apple's core lineup is offering -- even in the SE 3. So yes -- temperature sensing, sleep scores, and an always-on display are nicer than I have now. But I am still getting what I need from my Watch SE 2 while deciding on my next best wearable. I've been pondering smart rings, like the Oura or Ultrahuman rings, and have even considered upgrading to a Series 10 or Series 11. But at the moment, I'll be sticking with my SE 2. At its core, it still does everything I want my smartwatch to do. I want more features
The Apple Watch Series 11.  Nina Raemont/ZDNETAs mentioned above, I am looking for more features in my next wearable, and if I'm going to upgrade, I want to make sure it has everything I want. My SE 2 was purchased with the intent to dabble -- a trial run on if a smartwatch could fit into my lifestyle. Nearly two years later, I am entering the next phase in my journey. The Watch Series 11 looks like a promising upgrade for me. It's a bit bigger, but still offers slightly elevated features over the SE 3, like longer battery life, blood oxygen tracking, hypertension notifications, and the ECG app. I think the Ultra 3 would be too advanced for my needs, but I wouldn't rule it out. I'm also a big fan of the sleek, jewelry-like design of smart rings, which offer many of the same health and fitness features as the Apple Watch (sans the text syncing), but without the extra bulk. Also: The best smart rings of 2025Ultimately, I haven't decided what my next smart wearable will be yet, but I'd like to upgrade in features from what I have in the SE 2. That said, if you're a first-time wearable user looking to purchase for a child, teen, or elderly individual, I can't recommend the SE 3 (or even the SE 2) enough. It's a great core smartwatch, and Apple has future-proofed the SE 3 for the coming years. What I'll miss out on by not upgrading
Renee Ramos/Apple/ZDNETYes, I am going to miss out on some features by not upgrading to the Watch SE 3. I won't get sleep apnea detection, sleep score, temperature sensing, the always-on display, or fast charging. And I'm certainly not getting any of the more advanced Apple Watch features packed into the Series 11 or Watch Ultra 3, like ECG updates, blood oxygen monitoring, hypertension detection, and emergency SOS via satellite. Also: I compared every Apple Watch in 2025 - here's why I recommend this model the mostI do, however, save myself $250 at the moment and keep getting to enjoy the core features in my Watch SE 2. I also gain more time to research the best smart wearable upgrade for my lifestyle (maybe it's a ring... maybe not), and I may save myself some cash in the process. Plus, by choosing to wait -- even if by only six months or so -- it's likely I'll be able to snag a newer Apple watch model for $50-70 less, based on my historical knowledge as ZDNET's shopping editor. Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I recommend these models to different users
Apple Watch SE 3 vs. Watch SE 2: I compared the two models, and there's a clear winner
I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice now
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use