Is iOS 26 draining your iPhone battery faster? Here's why - and what you can do | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
Is iOS 26 draining your iPhone battery faster? Here's why - and what you can do
Increased battery drain is normal after installing a major OS update, says Apple.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 11:19 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysIncreased battery drain is normal following a major OS update.Your phone needs time to complete the setup in the background.iOS 26 offers a new Adaptive Power mode to extend your battery charge.Raise your hand if you've updated your iPhone to iOS 26 and noticed the battery draining faster. Yes, we've heard that complaint many times, especially after installing a major new operating system. But it's not just you. There's a reason this happens, and Apple is here to explain.Also: iOS 26 is now live - here's how to download it (and which iPhones support it)In a support page about software updates refreshed on Monday, Apple clarified why it's important to update your device's OS and how such updates work. New versions like iOS 26 kick in new features and improvements, enhanced security, and bug fixes. As such, you'll want to update your iPhone for security reasons even if you're not all that excited about the latest features.To update your iPhone, just head to Settings, select General, and tap Software Update. Select the option for iOS 26 and wait for the update to download and install. After your phone restarts, the new OS will be ready for you.Impact is temporaryOK, but what about the battery drain? People always seem to notice that their battery charge depletes more quickly after an OS update. Here's why.Also: Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it downApple acknowledged that after any update, especially a major release, you may notice a temporary impact on battery life and thermal performance. Not only could your battery drain faster, but your phone may get hotter. This is normal, as your device needs a certain amount of time to finish the setup in the background. That means updating apps, indexing files and data for search, downloading new assets, and more."New features are exciting and help you get even more out of your Apple product, though some may require additional resources from the device," Apple added. "Depending on individual usage, some users may notice a small impact on performance and/or battery life. Apple continually works to optimize these features in software updates to ensure great battery life and a smooth user experience."Redesigned Battery screen  Given enough time and future software updates, the battery drain should become less severe and less noticeable, or at least people will complain about it less. But if your newly updated iPhone seems to be losing its charge quicker, there are ways to fight back. iOS 26 can help.Also: iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max: I compared the two flagship models, and here's the winnerFor the latest OS, the Battery screen has been redesigned to provide more help and information. Head to Settings and select Battery. The screen will show you a graph of your battery use, even comparing today's performance with that of yesterday.Even better, iOS 26 offers a new mode called Adaptive Power. With this enabled, your iPhone will try to extend the battery charge by lowering the brightness of the display, letting some activities take longer to complete, and turning on Lower Power Mode when the charge reaches 20%.Otherwise, you can turn to a variety of other battery-saving tricks by checking out the following articles:My 5 simple tricks to extend iPhone battery life when travelingRunning on iOS 18? Changing these settings greatly improved my iPhone's battery lifeiOS 18.4 update draining your iPhone's battery? Try these 6 fixesWhy I limit my iPhone 15's charge capacity to 80% (and you should you too)iPhone
The 8 best iPhone models: Which one is right for you?
How to clear the cache on your iPhone (and why you should)
Apple politely explains why iPhone cases are a waste of money
Your iPhone battery is lying to you in weird ways
The 8 best iPhone models: Which one is right for you?
How to clear the cache on your iPhone (and why you should)
Apple politely explains why iPhone cases are a waste of money
Your iPhone battery is lying to you in weird ways
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)
How to clear your iPhone cache (and why you should do it before updating to iOS 26)
You can update your iPhone to iOS 26 right now (here's which models support it)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use