node.js - Keep the nodejs server running in ec2 using aws ssm send command - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Keep the nodejs server running in ec2 using aws ssm send command
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
34 times
Part of
AWS and CI/CD Collectives
0
I'm trying to deploy server code to EC2 automatically. The flow I'm following rn is: use GitHub actions to run aws cli commands to store my artifacts in a s3 bucket. From there use ssm send-command to take those artifacts and copy them in the ec2(ubuntu) instance, run the npm install as my user (installed node using nvm so its on user level), and here comes the problem. When I run npm start(node index.mjs) which should theoretically start my server, it doesn't work as intended, the server's lifetime is cut short by the ssm connection. I checked inside system manager and the logs with "server is running on port ..." are there but the server is not running. Other option is to use nohup with & to run it as a background process but that will make the system manager run command to remain in a "in progress" status indefinitely , never achieving the "success" status. I know pm2 can be an option but I try to first understand this more barebone approach.
so the question is: how can I keep my Node.js server running after the SSM command finishes while still marking the command as successful?
node.jsamazon-web-servicesamazon-ec2github-actionsaws-cli
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 15 hours ago
V.C.R KrronikalV.C.R Krronikal
1
New contributor
V.C.R Krronikal is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
0
If it is a temporary test → use nohup ... & disown. If it is a long-term online service → must use systemd (or pm2), because it has restart and log management
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered 10 hours ago
8080 ibb8080 ibb
2111 bronze badge
New contributor
8080 ibb is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
1 Comment
Add a comment
Community Community 10 hours ago
As it’s currently written, your answer is unclear. Please edit to add additional details that will help others understand how this addresses the question asked. You can find more information on how to write good answers in the help center. 2025-09-16T03:59:11.543Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
node.jsamazon-web-servicesamazon-ec2github-actionsaws-cli
See similar questions with these tags.
AWS
Collective
See more
CI/CD
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Related
267
How to use multiple AWS accounts from the command line?
1
aws ssm send command not working in Ubuntu servers
0
Terminate AWS EC2 instance when SSM Run Command status changes
10
How to scp to ec2 instance via ssm agent using boto3 and send file
332
Stop all instances of Node.js server
0
AWS Systems Manager Run Command - execute .exe file on EC2 instance
3
pm2 running on EC2 using jenkins not working?
Hot Network Questions
Given two normal distributions X and Y with fixed Spearman Correlation, do they have a well-defined Pearson Correlation (and vice-versa)?
Can scriptPubKey be empty in Bitcoin transactions and how would such outputs be spent?
When do cartographers draw a line for the coast and when do they not?
How to search LDAP entries for attribute values that match other attributes?
Compute the integer hull of a polyhedral set in Mathematica
Every repetition of the same list manipulation takes longer
How do I open my Ability tree page?
How to tell author that post hoc data manipulation is not okay
Come vs go in this situation
Making sure a smartphone is off
What is the purpose of this opening in the airplane interior?
distribution on accumulation points using Cesaro sum
Malicious tampering of trusted libraries
Kaleidoscopic supernova
How to disable all the AI features in Firefox to increase performance?
Visiting US after Green Card Revocation?
Insurance company want me to either surrender my totaled car or pay off the negative equity
What is supposed to make judicial branch make its best effort to judge cases in accordance with laws?
Does Reaper ability affect touch/self range cantrips?
Does systemd-cryptenroll encryption with a TPM bind decryption to that TPM?
Strange issue with numerical integration
Drawing nearest line between two points without crossing other lines in QGIS
Is it normal for postdoc to write grant proposals for PI, but then is denied the opportunity to work on the projects later on?
Loopy (Slitherlink)
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.15.33996