My new favorite portable power station has an ingenious storage feature that's spoiled me | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Energy
Power banks and batteries
My new favorite portable power station has an ingenious storage feature that's spoiled me
The EcoFlow River 3 Plus is a great power station that can grow to accommodate your needs.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 5:30 p.m. PT
EcoFlow River 3 Plus
ZDNET's key takeaways The EcoFlow River 3 Plus sets a new standard for me in terms of power and charging High-efficiency circuit for sub 100W devices massively boosts battery runtime The unit is built like a tank to take bangs and drops. $288 at Amazon Best generators deals of the week
Jackery Explorer 1000 v2 1070Wh Portable Power Station:  $469 (save $330)
DJI Power 1000 1024Wh Portable Power Station:  $499 (save $500)
EF Ecoflow Delta 2 1024Wh Portable Power Station:  $479 (save $220)
Bluetti AC70 768Wh Portable Power Station:  $399 (save $200)
EF Ecoflow Delta 3 1024Wh Portable Power Station:  $549 (save $150) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Just when you think that portable power stations have become as good as they are going to get, a company goes ahead and makes some big changes that you just didn't see coming.Regular readers will know that I'm a huge fan of EcoFlow's RIVER series of portable power stations. The River 2 Pro has been with me on many an adventure, including on a UFO hunt to Rendlesham Forest, the location of Britain's own Roswell UFO incident. It's also been with me in my hammock on numerous cold, wet nights. It's been one of those Goldilocks power stations -- not the smallest, and definitely not the biggest.Also: The best portable power stations to last through power outagesBut it's time for an upgrade. And what if this new power station could be smaller than the RIVER 2 Pro, but also become biggerThe River 2 Pro has given way to the River 3 Plus. And this has a few tricks up its sleeve.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS EcoFlow River 3 Plus A sub 11 pound portable power station that can handle outputs of 600W and surges to 1,200W with X-Boost, featuring a total of 7 outlets -- three UPS-supported AC, two USB-A, a high-speed 100W USB-C, and a car charger output.
details
View at Amazon The RIVER 3 Plus is a portable power station with 286Wh of capacity that measures 9.2 × 9.1 × 5.8 inches and weighs 10.4 pounds. It has three AC outlets -- one on the front, two on the rear -- good for 600W continuous load and a surge load of up to 1,200W. That power capacity is smaller than the 768Wh of the RIVER 2 Pro, but it's also almost 7 pounds lighter. The unit also features a tough yet comfortable handle on the back for ease of moving.Also: I tried an Android phone with a 22,000mAh battery - it made my iPhone 17 Pro Max look smallThe batteries are automotive-grade LiFePO4 cells designed to last 3,000 recharge cycles -- which is around 10 years of everyday use -- before their capacity drops to 80%. The cells are protected to IP54 standards (protected against a limited amount of dust and water splashes from any direction), and the shell of the unit is made from a fire-retardant polymer designed to survive a 3-foot/1.5-meter drop.It's also got one 100W USB-C port, two 24W USB-A ports, and a 12V car outlet.
Cool light on the front is very useful when camping or during power cuts. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET One of the features that I was particularly interested in trying out on the River 3 Plus was what EcoFlow calls X-GaNPower. This is a high-efficiency mode that kicks in when the unit is running loads under 100W, and it pretty much offers double the runtime. A small 3W load that might have otherwise run the unit to zero in about 19 hours can now run for 35 hours. I've tested this claim and got results that align with EcoFlow's promises. Also: The magnetic USB-C accessory I can't live without - and why you need one tooThis is very impressive, and given that a lot of what people run from their power stations falls into this category, users will see a huge runtime boost. There's an AC input port and an XT60 port for charging in the car or from a solar panel. For those wanting to use the River 3 Plus as an in-home uninterruptible power supply (UPS), the unit can switch from the grid to battery in under 10 milliseconds. There's also a USB-B port to allow it to communicate with PCs or NAS devices and turn them off in case of a prolonged power outage.
The ports on the rear are covered by a flap. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET You get options when it comes to charging the unit. Using the grid, you can go from zero to 100% in an hour, solar using the XT60 can be as quick as 90 minutes, and car charging can take around three and a half hours. Also: Why I travel with 3 different portable power stations (and can't get out of the habit)But there's more to the River 3 Plus. On the underside, there's a port that allows it to be attached to expansion batteries -- the 286Wh capacity EB300 (currently 22% off and only $209) or the 572Wh capacity EB600 (currently with 24% off and is yours for $418) -- and this is what allows the River 3 Plus to become a bigger power station. As well as offering a massive energy boost, the expansion battery has a 140W USB-C port that can be used to power devices and charge the expansion battery (a process that takes 7 hours).
The expansion port on the bottom of the RIVER 2 Plus. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET This is the most innovative solution to making expandable power stations I've encountered. No cables are needed. I love it!The unit runs completely silently most of the time, but when the fan kicks in, it's a quiet 30dB, which is unlikely to feature on most people's radar, even if they're trying to sleep. Also: This $12 USB-C accessory solved the biggest issue I had with my laptop's chargerOn the front of the River 3 Plus is a very cool light -- perfect for power cuts and camping -- and a snazzy display that lets you know everything that's going on with the power station, from input and output power to fan status. And for those wanting an even deeper dive, there is, of course, app connectivity, which also offers remote control.
The cooling fan is super quiet when it kicks in. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET ZDNET's buying adviceI review a lot of power stations in a year, but the EcoFlow River 3 Plus is the first this year to make me go "oooooh" a few times. The design is quite similar to the other units in the RIVER line, but the innovative expansion system and the extra runtime for low-power loads are certainly very cool.The unit itself is only $299, making it very competitively priced. If you're looking for a good deal on a small power station, this is for you, doubly so if you think you might want to expand its capacity at some point.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best early Amazon Prime Day EcoFlow deals 2025: I'm tracking my favorite EcoFlow power station discounts
My hardest-working power station just got an upgrade, and I highly recommend it
Don't buy a Bluetti before you see the $400 extras you can get for free
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use