Military & Defense - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Politics
Military & Defense
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Ukraine is ready to export its weapons, like the fearsome sea drones that helped it cripple Russia's Black Sea Fleet
4 min read
Lockheed's new combat drone shows the premier stealth aircraft designer is moving into the 'loyal wingman' business
3 min read
Ukraine claims first-ever kills of Russian Be-12 seaplanes. These aircraft are said to hunt naval drones.
Ukraine said it destroyed two Russian Be-12 aircraft, calling it the first time in history that the aircraft type had been destroyed in combat.
3 min read
A US startup wants to build a giant military cargo plane that can fit 4 F-35 stealth fighters inside
Radia originally built the Windrunner to carry wind turbine blades, but now wants to airlift batches of Chinooks and fighter jets at a time.
4 min read
How this 106-year-old World War II Navy vet survived a kamikaze attack
A 106-year-old WWII veteran reveals how his US Navy ship survived a Japanese kamikaze attack in the Pacific theater.
Ukraine's drone war is accelerating
Ukraine's specialized drones are fulfilling more missions as engineers harness the next leap-ahead tech: AI.
19 min read
US military bases are getting new high-tech 'flyaway kits' to deal with drones. Here's what's in them.
The kits are meant as a rapid-response solution when other options aren't enough, though deployment could be faster.
3 min read
NATO F-35 stealth fighters scrambled to repel the Russian MiG-31s that breached alliance airspace
Three Russian MiG-31 fighter jets flew into Estonia on Friday, escalating tensions and marking the latest violation of NATO airspace by Moscow.
3 min read
The world feared Ukraine would fall to Russia in days. Now it's teaching NATO forces how to fight a new kind of war.
A new memorandum will see Ukrainian forces training Polish troops in counter-drone tactics. It's a moment of recognition of Kyiv's growing expertise.
4 min read
A new uranium processing facility for US nukes is late and billions over budget as the old one crumbles, watchdog reports
Until the new building is completed in 2034, the degrading 80-year-old one will continue to operate without meeting modern nuclear safety codes.
3 min read
Putin said he's eying higher taxes on the rich to bankroll the Ukraine war and pointed to a precedent set by the US
Russia's central bank expects the economy to expand just 1% to 2% this year, down from 4.3% in 2024.
3 min read
Russia has been hiring 20,000 Cuban mercenaries to fight against Ukraine, Kyiv's military intelligence says
Ukrainian intelligence said Cuban fighters are paid an average monthly wage of $2,000, but that foreign mercenaries typically die within five months.
4 min read
How mercenaries actually work, according to a special forces veteran
Barrie Rice is a former commando with the New Zealand Special Air Service. For the past 30 years, he's been a mercenary and personal bodyguard.
Trump says that the US wants an abandoned airbase in Afghanistan back because of China's nukes
Bagram Air Base was the biggest US base in Afghanistan until it was abandoned when American forces withdrew from the country in 2021.
3 min read
Ukraine slammed more long-range drones into Russian oil, taking aim at its most valuable industry
Ukraine has ramped up strikes on energy sites to increase pressure on Russia, which relies on revenue from oil and gas exports.
4 min read
Ukraine is starting to move weapons production into NATO, where Russia's missiles can't reach it without risking all-out war
Ukraine's defense firms scatter to survive. Denmark offers a safer option: production on NATO territory.
5 min read
Russia's jet-powered Shaheds are a looming new threat, but Ukraine says it already has drones that can counter them
It's a sign that Kyiv is pressing on with FPV interceptors to fight the Geran-3, which is said to fly twice as fast as today's Shaheds.
3 min read
High costs and long waits for popular US-made Patriots just drove a NATO ally to pick a European rival
Denmark said Russia's war has proved that air defenses are needed urgently. The Patriot wait times and cost made it pick Europe's SAMP/T.
5 min read
The US military wants to get better at spotting this dangerous muscle breakdown before it puts troops in the hospital
A muscle condition caused by extreme exercise that can be easily missed has sidelined hundreds of troops. The military has a new plan to catch cases.
3 min read
The US fired $500 million in top interceptors defending Israel from missile attacks, new documents show
A recent Pentagon budget document requests $500 million to replace the US Army's Terminal High Altitude Area Defense missile interceptors.
4 min read
Machine gunners going head-to-head with Russian drones are getting new interceptors for the hard-to-reach threats
Interceptor drones will help defeat threats at higher altitudes, the deputy commander of a mobile air defense unit told Business Insider.
3 min read
Ukrainians are fortifying and flooding underground pipes because Russian troops keep trying to crawl or walk in them
It's the third time that Russian troops have been reported using gas or water pipes to advance through Ukrainian lines.
3 min read
Navies are facing a 'back to the future' moment as the sea drone threat rises, future of war study says
A new report said that navies may need to up their defenses of anchored vessels against attacks from uncrewed surface and underwater vehicles.
4 min read
Ukraine says Russia's new jet-powered attack drone is full of foreign parts and immune to electronic warfare
The Geran-3, modeled after the Iranian-made Shahed-238, is faster and more advanced than its predecessor.
3 min read
Ukraine's front-line road nets are catching Russian drones, but gaps leave vehicles exposed to ambush
Anti-drone netting has become an increasingly common tactic to protect key roads, a Ukrainian commander told Business Insider.
4 min read
The US Army says it's reviving a World War I practice — using soldiers as walking blood banks when helicopters can't fly
Without the ability to freely evacuate casualties or transport supplies via air, blood transfusions right on the battlefield could be critical.
4 min read
I visited the largest military aviation museum in the world with over 350 aircraft and missiles on display. Here are the coolest things I saw.
The National Museum of the US Air Force features historic Air Force One planes, ICBM missiles, and a B-2 stealth bomber. Take a look inside.
6 min read
Ukraine's front line regains Starlink internet after a brief global outage that paused some drone flights
Ukraine uses SpaceX's Starlink for communications and to gather intelligence, but faced some issues with the system on Monday.
4 min read
Another NATO country scrambled F-16s to confront a Russian drone, saying it breached alliance airspace for 50 minutes
Romania said its F-16 pilots were "very close" to shooting down the Russian drone, but that it eventually exited Romanian airspace.
3 min read
Tourniquets, gray-zone tactics, and secrecy: I attended an 8-hour course that teaches Taiwanese citizens what to do if China invades
Getting press access to Taiwan's Kuma Academy feels more like signing up for a covert operation than joining a civil defense class.
7 min read
I toured an $80 million luxury private jet from Qatar Executive, and first class doesn't come close
The global rise in billionaires is fueling a race for private jet services. We went aboard Qatar Executive's G700 model to experience this luxury.
7 min read
The US military is falling behind in the race to field combat drones
US troops are almost certain to face swarms of cheap drones in a future conflict. The Pentagon has been slow to adapt to this new reality.
17 min read
Sentinel ICBM problems mean the US Air Force could be stuck with aging nuclear missiles for over 2 more decades
Keeping Minuteman III missiles running would be a challenge, but it may be the only option as new Sentinel ICBMs face severe delays and cost overruns.
4 min read
Ukrainian long-range drones struck a major Russian oil port, causing a fire and disrupting key shipments
Long-range drones struck the Russian port of Primorsk, setting a ship and a pumping station on fire. Oil prices initially jumped on the news.
3 min read
Lockheed Martin says the US is interested in its '5th-generation-plus' F-35 that uses tech from its failed 6th-generation bid
Lockheed Martin's CEO said an upgraded F-35 could feature advanced systems that rival the new F-47 stealth fighter at half its cost.
4 min read
Ukraine is betting on this Western country to build thousands of its interceptor drones
The UK is planning to mass-produce thousands of interceptor drones for Ukraine to help it defend itself against Russia's growing attacks.
4 min read
NATO's style of destroying Russian drones in Poland was 'not the way' to effectively defend its skies, Zelenskyy says
No one in NATO has the air defense system needed to counter mass drone attacks like Russia's, Zelenskyy cautioned on Thursday.
4 min read
Ukraine's strikingly cost-efficient drones are getting the $7 billion boost they need for mass production
Zelenskyy has said that Ukraine has the capacity to produce 8 million drones a year, but lacks the funding to do so.
4 min read
'AMERICA'S DARKEST DAY': See newspaper headlines from around the world after 9/11
The day after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, people woke up to front pages capturing their sadness, shock, and horror.
1 min read
How remote drone strikes actually work, according to a former US military sensor operator
Former USAF drone operator Tanner Yackley recalls years of remote combat and the lasting toll of drone warfare.
Photos show how Manhattan's skyline has changed since the 9/11 attacks
Photos from the last 24 years show how New York City rebuilt ground zero following the attack on September 11, 2001.
3 min read
A war with China could drown US forces in drone swarms if it doesn't gear up for the fight, new report warns
The US needs a variety of proven counter-drone capabilities in a potential war with China, experts argued in a new report.
5 min read
The F-35 stealth fighters that shot down Russian drones were just days into new front-line NATO patrols
F-35s and other NATO aircraft were called into action on Wednesday after Russian drones crossed into Polish airspace.
3 min read
NATO fighters downed Russian drones in allied airspace for the first time as a critical breach put its air defenses to the test
A NATO spokesperson said the incident marked the first time that NATO aircraft "have engaged potential threats in allied airspace."
4 min read
Satellite images show Russia's big exploding drone factory is expanding with new buildings, defenses, and, apparently, paintball fields
Relatively new images captured of the Yelabuga drone factory appear to show paintball fields near the expanding facility.
4 min read
The US Air Force's small, aging fleet is losing its edge over China
After decades of nonstop wars and aging planes, the Air Force now fields a force far smaller and more strained than its Cold War peak.
6 min read
Poland says it shot down Russian drones that repeatedly violated its airspace
Poland's prime minister said the country's armed forces downed Russian drones that could have posed a threat.
3 min read
Russia is testing unjammable fiber-optic drone boats as it turns Ukrainian war tech against it
Ukraine long had the edge in naval drones, but Russia is making big leaps and is now seeking to echo the success of aerial drones that use cables.
4 min read
The Pentagon is trying to figure out which drones to buy. The Marines just put a bunch to the test.
Tests measured how fast drones could be launched, how reliably they flew in tough conditions, and whether they could make a real difference in combat.
3 min read
Israel extends Hamas kill campaign with strikes into business hub Doha in a serious strategic shift
The Israeli military said it carried out a "precise strike" against Hamas senior leadership on Tuesday.
3 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.