Starbucks workers sue over company's new dress code's costs to them - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
CDC Vaccine Vote
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
MoneyWatch
|
Managing Your Money
CBS News Price Tracker
Watch CBS News
MoneyWatch
Starbucks workers sue over company's new dress code's costs to them
September 18, 2025 / 5:36 AM EDT
/ CBS/AP
Starbucks workers in three states took legal action against the coffee giant Wednesday, saying it violated the law when it changed its dress code but refused to reimburse employees who had to buy new clothes. The employees, who are backed by the union organizing Starbucks' workers, filed class-action lawsuits in state court in Illinois and Colorado. Workers also filed complaints with California's Labor and Workforce Development Agency. If the agency decides not to seek penalties against Starbucks, the workers intend to file a class-action lawsuit in California, according to the complaints.Starbucks didn't comment directly on them Wednesday, but the company said it simplified its dress code to deliver a more consistent experience to customers and give its employees clearer guidance. "As part of this change, and to ensure out partners were prepared, partners received two shirts at no cost," the company said Wednesday. Starbucks refers to its employees as "partners."The dress code sparked a strike at 75 U.S. stores in May soon after it went into effect, with more than 1,000 workers protesting the new policy, according to Starbucks Workers United, which represents workers at 640 of Starbucks' 10,000 company-owned U.S. stores. The union said the dress code should be subject to collective bargaining but isn't a party to the suits.
The new dress code requires all workers in North America to wear a solid black shirt with short or long sleeves under their green aprons. Shirts may or may not have collars, but they must cover the midriff and armpits.
Employees must wear khaki, black or blue denim bottoms without patterns or frayed hems or solid black dresses that are not more than 4 inches above the knee. The dress code also requires workers to wear black, gray, dark blue, brown, tan or white shoes made from a waterproof material. Socks and hosiery must be "subdued," the company said. The dress code prohibits employees from having face tattoos or more than one facial piercing. Tongue piercings and "theatrical makeup" are also prohibited. Starbucks said in April that the new dress code would make employees' green aprons stand out and create a sense of familiarity for customers. It comes as the company is trying to reestablish a warmer, more welcoming experience in its stores.
Before the new dress code was imposed, Starbucks had a relatively lax policy. In 2016, it began allowing employees to wear patterned shirts in a wider variety of colors to give them more opportunities for self-expression.
The old dress code was also loosely enforced, according to the Colorado lawsuit. But under the new dress code, employees who don't comply aren't allowed to start their shifts. Brooke Allen, a full-time student who also works at a Starbucks in Davis, California, said she was told by a manager in July that the Crocs she was wearing didn't meet the new standards and she would have to wear different shoes if she wanted to work the following day. Allen had to go to three stores to find a compliant pair, which cost her $60.09. Allen has spent an additional $86.95 on clothes for work, including black shirts and jeans.
"I think it's extremely tone deaf on the company's part to expect their employees to completely redesign their wardrobe without any compensation," Allen said. "A lot of us are already living paycheck to paycheck." Allen said she misses the old dress code, which allowed her to express herself with colorful shirts and three facial piercings. "It looks sad now that everyone is wearing black," she said.
The lawsuits and complaints filed Wednesday allege that Starbucks' dress code violates state laws that require companies to reimburse workers for expenses that primarily benefit the employer. Colorado law also prohibits employers from imposing expenses on workers without their written consent, according to that lawsuit. The plaintiffs seek damages on behalf of all Starbucks workers in those states, whether or not their stores are unionized. Multiple plaintiffs, like Allen, said they requested reimbursement from Starbucks to conform to the dress code but were denied. Gilbert Cruz, an employee in Aurora, Illinois, requested $10 for the cost of removing a nose piercing.
Worker-led lawsuits in state courts are a shift in tactics in the multi-year effort to unionize Starbucks' stores.
Starbucks Workers United  has filed hundreds of unfair labor practice charges against Starbucks with the National Labor Relations Board. But the board's ability to hear cases has been curtailed under President Trump. He fired an NLRB member in the spring, leaving the board without the quorum it needs to decide cases.Starbucks Workers United has been unionizing U.S. stores since 2021. The company and union have yet to reach a contract agreement, despite agreeing to return to the bargaining table in February 2024.
More from CBS News
Costco recalls Kirkland Prosecco, saying unopened bottles can shatter
ICE threatens lawsuits if Democratic states don't hold migrants
Uber to pilot food delivery by drone through partnership with Flytrex
Homeowners insurance costs have shot up 70% since 2021. Here's why.
Starbucks
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
More from CBS News
Homeless shelter in Northern Colorado to close in September
Buckley Space Force Base honors memory of prisoners of war, those missing in action
Evergreen High prepares for students to return to class
With SNAP benefits cuts, Meals on Wheels Coal Creek sees increased demand
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue