How civilians in Gaza City are surviving the latest Israeli offensive : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
How civilians in Gaza City are surviving the latest Israeli offensive As Israel's ground offensive in Gaza City escalates, Shaina Low of the Norwegian Refugee Council warns civilians are trapped, forced to choose between staying under bombardment or fleeing south.
World
A humanitarian expert says civilians in Gaza City are facing an 'impossible choice'
Updated September 17, 20258:00 PM ET
Originally published September 17, 20254:48 AM ET
Heard on
Morning Edition
By
Kaity Kline
How civilians in Gaza City are surviving the latest Israeli offensive
Listen
·
4:58
4:58
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5543265/nx-s1-9455463" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Displaced Palestinians move with their belongings southwards on a road in the Nuseirat refugee camp area in the central Gaza Strip following renewed Israeli evacuation orders for Gaza City on September 16, 2025.
Eyad Baba/AFP via Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Eyad Baba/AFP via Getty Images
Interview highlights
Israel is committing genocide in Gaza, a UN inquiry finds
Major aid groups suspended or significantly scaled back their remaining operations in eastern Gaza City on Tuesday after Israeli tanks reached the city's outskirts as part of a ground offensive. "People in Gaza City are facing an impossible choice: live under bombardment and famine, or risk a dangerous journey south where they know that there are no services that can accommodate them," said Shaina Low, a communications adviser for the Norwegian Refugee Council (NRC). "What we are witnessing is mass forcible transfer of Palestinians from Gaza City, which is a war crime and must be stopped." The military escalation came as an independent U.N. commission concluded that Israel was committing genocide in Gaza, a charge Israel has denied, calling a report from the commission "distorted and false."
Sponsor Message
"Gaza is burning." Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz wrote on X on Tuesday. "The IDF is striking the terror infrastructure with an iron fist, and IDF soldiers are fighting bravely to create the conditions for the release of the hostages and the defeat of Hamas. We will not relent and we will not turn back—until the mission is completed."
World
Israel expands its Gaza City offensive, as hospitals contend with the dead, wounded
At least 100 Palestinians were killed in Israeli strikes over the last day, according to local hospitals. Aid groups say the Israeli military continues to restrict access to food, water, and humanitarian aid, worsening a crisis already marked by starvation and displacement. Israel has frequently accused Hamas of diverting aid, although it has not provided evidence of the claim. Hamas denies the accusation. Low, who has been in regular contact with NRC colleagues on the ground — most of them local staff — said civilians are being forced into impossible decisions as the offensive intensifies. She shared some of their experiences in an interview with NPR's Morning Edition. Interview highlights On what Gaza City colleagues have been telling her: I was in touch with a number of colleagues yesterday evening who told me stories of horror, and just facing tremendous fear. Days of bombardments, of towers being bombed around them, dust and smoke filling the air, bullets hitting the sides of the buildings that they're trying to shelter in. Right now, people in Gaza City are facing an impossible choice: live under bombardment and famine or risk the dangerous journey to the south, where they know that there are no services that can accommodate them, that there's no aid to be distributed to help them in their displacement.What we are witnessing is mass forcible transfer of Palestinians from Gaza City, which is a war crime and must be stopped.
Sponsor Message
On whether Gaza City colleagues are choosing to stay or go south: Two weeks ago, I spoke to my colleague who told me that he and his family were committed to stay in Gaza City, that they had a roof over their head and concrete walls surrounding them, and that they would stay until they had no other choice. Right now, he is on his way to the south of Gaza because he told me he could not bear to see the look of fear in his children's eyes any longer. The decision is one that our staff have to make on their own. We have other staff who have told me that the conditions in the south are not even suitable for animals and that they prefer to stay in their homes. And if they die, at least they die in dignity. These are the questions, impossible questions, that our staff and hundreds of thousands of Palestinians in Gaza City are facing right now. On whether there are any basic necessities, like water: Most humanitarian agencies, including the Norwegian Refugee Council, have had to at least pause or suspend our operations because the conditions are so unsafe. We've had to suspend our own water trucking. There are a handful of organizations that are still providing some type of assistance. But as the bombardment increases and the ground troops advance on the city, it becomes more and more dangerous for humanitarians who are determined to provide support wherever people are in need to continue to fulfill that mission.Very little aid, if anything, is reaching Gaza City at this point. People are describing empty markets, or markets where items are just cost-prohibitive and far too expensive. We desperately need the world to act to put an end to this. On how Israel's ground invasion might change how the Norwegian Refugee Council operates: We will continue to provide services throughout Gaza wherever we have access and wherever we have supplies. Of course, we have not gotten a single item of aid in since Israel imposed a near-total siege over six months ago. And so we are doing the best we can with zero resources coming in.
Gaza
UN
humanitarian aid
Israeli military
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor