iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro: I compared both models, and here's why it's worth upgrading | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro: I compared both models, and here's why it's worth upgrading
The iPhone 17 Pro brings a better camera and the biggest battery ever in an iPhone - but how much better is it than the 15 Pro? Here's how they compare.
Written by
Kyle Kucharski, EditorEditor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 1:00 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner and Nina Raemont/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The iPhone 17 series has arrived, and it comes with some pretty substantial upgrades both in terms of design and capabilities. We're talking longer battery life, more onboard memory, a bigger and brighter screen, and an improved camera system. If you've got an iPhone 15 Pro, your device is already two years old. It may look like a good time to spring for the new phone, but how big of an upgrade is the 17 Pro, really? Also: iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max: I compared the two flagship models, and here's the winnerTake the software, for example: Both phones run Apple's latest operating system, iOS 26, with many of the same Apple Intelligence features. Additionally, the iPhone 15 Pro is smaller and lighter. So is it worth upgrading? Let's break down the differences between the iPhone 15 Pro and the new iPhone 17 Pro.
Specifications
iPhone 17 Pro  iPhone 15 Pro  Display6.9-inch AMOLED with 120Hz, 3,000 nits peak6.1-inch OLED 120Hz, 2,000 nits peakWeight206 grams (7.27 ounces)187 grams (6.60 ounces)
ProcessorApple A19 ProApple A17 ProRAM/Storage12GB of RAM, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB8GB of RAM, 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TBBattery33 hours of video playback23 hours of video playbackCamera48MP Fusion, 48MP Fusion ultrawide, 48MP Fusion telephoto, 18MP front 48MP wide, 12MP ultrawide, 12MP telephoto, 12MP frontColorsSilver, Cosmic Orange, and Deep BlueBlack Titanium, White Titanium, Blue Titanium, Natural TitaniumPrice$1,099  $679 refurbished (on sale)
You should buy the iPhone 17 Pro if...
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
1. You want the upgraded camera The camera system in the iPhone 17 Pro is a significant step up from the 15 Pro, with a 48MP Fusion, ultrawide, and telephoto, along with an 18MP Center Stage selfie camera. That's the best front-facing camera you'll find on any iPhone. What's more, the optical zoom has been upgraded to 8x, which effectively doubles the zoom from the previous model and is one of the highest out there right now. This is all the result of a 56% larger camera sensor, which will produce sharper, better-quality images, especially in low light. Also: I hope iPhone 17 adopts these 7 features from Google, OpenAI, and othersThe upgraded Camera app also has some new features -- like the ability to change the orientation of the photo through the software, instead of physically rotating the phone. You also get Dual Capture, which lets you record from the front- and rear-facing cameras simultaneously. Simply put, the camera on the 17 Pro is the best iPhone camera to date. If you want to shoot DSLR-quality photos, it's worth the upgrade.
2. You want the best performance The iPhone 17 Pro comes with the A19 Pro processor, a chip that Apple called "MacBook level power in an iPhone" during the live event. This isn't an exaggeration. Apple says the A19 Pro delivers up to 40% better performance compared to the iPhone 16 Pro, with near half-as-fast performance compared to the 15 Pro. Combined with more base RAM (12GB instead of 8GB), you're getting a phone that's fast and responsive, especially while multitasking, like surfing the web, listening to music, or playing YouTube in the background simultaneously, all tasks the 17 Pro is made to do without skipping a beat. If you're a mobile gamer, the GPU in the 17 Pro is twice as fast as the previous iPhone.
Also: Apple's tariff costs and iPhone sales are soaring - how long until device prices are too?The processor on the 15 Pro is no slouch -- the A17 Pro uses a 3nm node with lots of power for whatever you want to do -- but the increased power on the 17 Pro is paired with an upgraded cooling system, utilizing a vapor chamber to push the capabilities of the A19 to higher levels. Paired with the 120Hz refresh rate, the 17 Pro provides a fast, smooth user experience.
3. You want an all-day battery Apple doesn't release exact metrics for its batteries except in terms of hours for video playback. It says the iPhone 15 Pro can get up to 23 hours, while the larger battery in the 17 Pro can achieve 33 hours. We'll have to go hands-on and test this ourselves, but that 10-hour increase indicates a pretty significant bump up in battery capacity. Also: 5 Apple products you should avoid buying this week (and 7 safe picks to get instead)If you have an iPhone 15 Pro or an older phone and are starting to see battery life degradation, upgrading will give you access to the most powerful battery in an iPhone yet. Additionally, despite the increased capacity, the iPhone 17 Pro's battery is more efficient. Apple says the iPhone 17 Pro charges to 50% in just 20 minutes, 10 minutes faster than it takes the 15 Pro to get to the same percentage.
Buy the iPhone 17 Pro View now at Apple
You should buy the iPhone 15 Pro if...
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
1. You just want the latest softwareIf you're stoked about the latest features in iOS 26, both the iPhone 15 Pro and 17 Pro have access to the same features. That goes for Apple Intelligence features like real-time translation, Shortcuts, and Visual Intelligence. In fact, there aren't really any specific Apple Intelligence features unique to the 17 Pro. Also: The iPhone 17 series could be Apple's boldest move in years - here's whyThe 17 Pro is certainly faster, with a more powerful chip, but the 15 Pro's A17 Pro processor is still well-equipped to handle on-device AI, as the earliest iPhone with enough processing power to do so. If you already have the 15 Pro and you're keen on jumping into all iOS 26 has to offer, you're not missing out by not upgrading.
2. You don't want a bigger phoneAlthough this might not be a big deal for some, it's important to note that the iPhone 17 Pro is quite a bit chunkier than the 15 Pro. All that powerful hardware is bigger, requires a more powerful battery, and weighs more -- 206 grams (7.27 ounces) compared to the iPhone 15 Pro's 187 grams (6.6 ounces). Also: iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared both thin phones, and there's a clear winnerThe 17 Pro is also longer: 5.91 inches vs. 5.77 inches on the 15 Pro, slightly wider, and slightly thicker. All of these measurements add up to a phone that'll definitely feel heavier in the hand. Additionally, the 17 Pro's camera system is a new design for iPhones, featuring a raised "plateau" that stretches the entire length of the phone, similar to the Google Pixel 10 -- but even bigger. If you don't fancy a bigger phone, you might not want to upgrade.
Buy the iPhone 15 Pro refurbished View now at Walmart
Alternatives to consider
BEST ALTERNATIVE iPhone Air Apple is flexing its design muscle with the new ultrathin iPhone Air.
View at Apple Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's the best buy for you
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared the flagships and here's the winner
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use