AI models know when they're being tested - and change their behavior, research shows | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
AI models know when they're being tested - and change their behavior, research shows
OpenAI and Apollo Research tried to stop models from lying - and discovered something else altogether.
Written by
Radhika Rajkumar, EditorEditor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 10:00 a.m. PT
pressureUA/iStock/Getty Images Plus via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.
ZDNET's key takeaways
Several frontier AI models show signs of scheming.Anti-scheming training reduced misbehavior in some models.Models know they're being tested, which complicates results.New joint safety testing from UK-based nonprofit Apollo Research and OpenAI set out to reduce secretive behaviors like scheming in AI models. What researchers found could complicate promising approaches to solving that problem.Also: OpenAI's fix for hallucinations is simpler than you thinkAs a refresher, "scheming" is when an AI model pursues goals not set -- or in direct contrast to -- its developers and hides or lies about those actions. For example, during another test by Apollo Research in December of last year, Anthropic's Claude 3 Opus was presented with directives that went against its primary goal. It should have rerouted its goal based on those new instructions, but instead copied itself to a new server to circumvent being replaced with a new model -- and then lied about it to its developers.
OpenAI and Apollo researchers aren't concerned that current models could carry out the most serious kinds of scheming. As with much AI safety research, testing results primarily indicate risks of future, more capable models.
Here's what the research, published Wednesday, revealed.
Why scheming matters
Scheming refers to several types of dishonest behavior, including when a model lies, sandbags (strategically underperforms on an evaluation to hide its true abilities), or fakes alignment (when an AI model pretends to follow orders that don't align with its training in order to avoid being further scrutinized or re-trained). These covert actions can imperil safety efforts, make testing less reliable, and hide model dangers. Also: How people actually use ChatGPT vs Claude - and what the differences tell usAn AI model that schemes, especially if acting through an autonomous agent, could quickly wreak havoc within an organization, deploy harmful actions, or be generally out of control. Plus, because scheming involves a model knowingly hiding its behavior from developers, it can be harder to identify than other security risks, like jailbreaking. But tackling scheming isn't exactly an easy task. While trying to stop a model from scheming could work, those efforts could actually just teach models how to better hide that they're scheming, making the behavior harder to detect. That outcome would make safety testing much more opaque and leave a model's true capabilities and intentions unclear.
"Since concerning behavior disappears in both cases, the reason for behavioral change becomes crucial, not just whether change occurs," the Apollo authors explain in a blog.
The experiment
Researchers put a variety of frontier models in situations where lying and other behaviors would help them achieve their goals. Several models, including OpenAI's o3 and o4-mini, Gemini 2.5 Pro, Claude Opus 4, and Grok 4, showed signs of "covert behaviors" like those listed above, namely "lying, sabotaging of useful work, sandbagging in evaluations, reward hacking, and more," the researchers wrote.
Also: AI's not 'reasoning' at all - how this team debunked the industry hypeThe experiment predated GPT-5, OpenAI's latest model, so it was not included in evaluations.
Researchers used the models' chain-of-thought -- the steps a reasoning model lays out in plain text about its approach to a query -- to assess their behavior and motivations.
Anti-scheming training
As a solution for scheming, the researchers focused on deliberative alignment, a technique in which models cite a specification or "spec" that reiterates rules about not being deceitful and instructions for handling situations where that directive may conflict with model goals. This spec is separate from OpenAI's Model Spec, released initially last year and updated continuously, which sets OpenAI models' overall behavioral guidelines.
Also: A few secretive AI companies could crush free society, researchers warnResearchers trained versions of o3 and o4-mini to read anti-scheming guidelines before acting, which reduced covert behavior 30 times over (from 13% to 0.4% for o3, and from 8.7% to 0.3% for o4-mini).
But it didn't completely eradicate covert behavior in models. Researchers noted "rare but serious remaining cases of misbehavior," and that models still occasionally ignored the safety spec or considered it, but took covert action anyway.
"In a few very rare cases, models make up new principles or egregiously misrepresent the spec," the authors added.
In some cases, models could develop hidden goals before undergoing anti-scheming training, meaning that training would have to retroactively suppress that tendency. To test this, researchers gave o4-mini a hidden goal to sabotage GPT-5. Being trained with a hidden goal made models more likely to take covert action in general, even unrelated to the planted goal, but anti-scheming training after the fact worked most of the time.
Models know they're being evaluated
Deliberative alignment didn't prove to be a perfect fix, though -- one factor complicated the results. During testing, researchers discovered that models knew they were being evaluated on their alignment, which they call situational awareness.
OpenAI/Apollo ResearchModels openly acknowledged in their reasoning that they were being tested, musing on the evaluation's goals and how developers might interpret their answers. Researchers admit the improvements they saw in anti-scheming training could be due to this rather than an actual improvement in behavior.
Also: Your favorite AI chatbot is full of liesIn one case, researchers asked o3 to "grade a transcript of itself sandbagging another evaluation," and told o3 that it wouldn't be deployed if it had sandbagged. Sometimes, o3 only answered honestly because it knew it was being tested. Other times, o3 trusted the researchers' assurance that they could not see its reasoning and intentionally lied that it had not sandbagged.
The authors point out that this is problematic because it undermines the evaluation's ability to measure a model's tendency toward bad behavior.
"If we can only observe aligned actions and not the reasons that led to them, we might mistakenly conclude a model is aligned, while it merely understood the purpose of the evaluation and gave the answers we wanted to see," they explain.
Also: Anthropic's Claude 3 Opus disobeyed its creators - but not for the reasons you're thinkingThat said, situational awareness actually seemed to reduce covert behavior. A model schemed less when it had more situational awareness; when researchers removed that awareness from a model's reasoning, it schemed more. But that could be dangerous in the real world, where models aren't knowingly subjected to testing.
"We might expect models to scheme more in more realistic situations that don't trigger evaluation awareness," the OpenAI researchers wrote in a blog.
Training makes models more aware
Researchers also found that a model's situational awareness increased the more it was trained, including after anti-scheming training. At a baseline, they observed that o3 and o4-mini demonstrated situational awareness 2.3% and 0.9% of the time, respectively; after anti-scheming training, those numbers went up to 4.5% and 5.5%.
Also: Crowdstrike and Meta just made evaluating AI security tools easierThat effect isn't just linked to anti-scheming training -- situational awareness also increased as a result of capability-focused training that had nothing to do with weeding out misbehavior. The researchers used an internal OpenAI model to test an additional reinforcement learning run that didn't include any anti-scheming elements. Situational awareness went up further still, from 2% to 20.6%.
Ultimately, researchers couldn't say for certain why more training leads to more situational awareness. Regardless, it's significant considering future models are only expected to undergo more training and be more capable.
"If current training paradigms remain unchanged, we should expect more capable models to develop even higher levels of situational awareness," the researchers wrote. "This trend makes evaluations less legible, complicating efforts to reliably assess problematic behaviors."
What the findings mean
Researchers aren't worried about models scheming in the immediate term. Even with situational awareness, the models didn't always correctly guess what the evaluation was looking for. Models also aren't "proactively pursuing longer-term misaligned goals, and their covert behaviors are mostly reactive and context-dependent," the authors explained.
Also: I built a business plan with ChatGPT and it turned into a cautionary taleAs with much of AI safety, the researchers noted that even minimal early signs could indicate more powerful capabilities in future models that would need to be mitigated ahead of time. "Ultimately, we think the intervention as studied is not sufficient for future models, and more work needs to be done," they conclude.
The importance of chain-of-thought
Researchers noted they relied on chain-of-thought for much of this experiment. But models occasionally used "non-standard terminology" to describe their actions, making their reasoning harder to interpret.
Also: I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfallBased on their findings, Apollo and OpenAI emphasized the continued need to monitor chain-of-thought. In July, OpenAI, Meta, Anthropic, and Google published a joint paper on the topic, detailing how critical it is for insights into a model's behavior and advocating for all developers to prioritize keeping it intact, rather than letting optimizations degrade it over time.
Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
AI's not 'reasoning' at all - how this team debunked the industry hype
OpenAI's fix for hallucinations is simpler than you think
AI's free web scraping days may be over, thanks to this new licensing protocol
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use