Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
OpenAI's new GPT-5 Codex model takes on Claude Code
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
FinWise insider breach impacts 689K American First Finance customers
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityHackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
By Bill Toulas
September 10, 2025
01:56 PM
1
The largest supply-chain compromise in the history of the NPM ecosystem has impacted roughly 10% of all cloud environments, but the attacker made little profit off it.
The attack occurred earlier this week after maintainer Josh Junon (qix) fell for a password reset phishing lure and compromised multiple highly popular NPM packages, among them chalk and degub-js, that cumulatively have more than 2.6 billion weekly downloads.
After gaining access to Junon’s account, the attackers pushed malicious updates with a malicious module that stole cryptocurrency by redirecting transactions to the threat actor.
The open-source software community quickly discovered the attack, and all the malicious packages were removed within two hours.
According to researchers at cloud security company Wiz, one or more of the compromised packages, which are fundamental building blocks for nearly any JavaScript/Node project, were used in 99% of cloud environments.
During the two-hour window they were available for download, the compromised packages were pulled by roughly 10% of cloud environments.
“During the short 2-hour timeframe in which the malicious versions were available on npm, the malicious code successfully reached 1 in 10 cloud environments,” explained Wiz.
“This serves to demonstrate how fast malicious code can propagate in supply chain attacks like this one.”
Source: Wiz
The 10% figure is based on Wiz’s visibility into customer cloud environments, as well as public sources. While it may not be a representative percentage, it is still indicative of the fast spread and reach of the attack.
Attackers made less than $1,000
Although the attack caused notable disruption, requiring companies a significant number of hours for cleanups, rebuilding, and auditing, the security implications are negligible, just like the threat actor's profit.
According to an analysis by Security Alliance, the injected code targeted browser environments, hooking Ethereum and Solana signing requests, swapping cryptocurrency wallet addresses with attacker-controlled ones (crypto-jacking).
The type of payload is what saved companies that pulled the compromised devices from a much more serious security incident, as the threat actor could have used their access to plant reverse shells, move laterally on the network, or plant destructive malware.
Despite the massive scale of the attack and the numerous victims, the attackers were only able to divert five cents worth of ETH and $20 worth of a virtually unknown memecoin.
Socket researchers published a report yesterday, alerting that the same phishing campaign also impacted DuckDB’s maintainer account, compromising the project’s packages with the same crypto-stealing code.
According to them, the profits traced to the attackers’ wallets are roughly $429 in Ethereum, $46 in Solana, and small amounts in BTC, Tron, BCH, and LTC totaling $600.
It is also noted that the attacker’s wallet addresses that hold any significant amounts have been flagged, limiting their ability to convert or use the little money they made.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Popular npm linter packages hijacked via phishing to drop malwareHackers hijack npm packages with 2 billion weekly downloads in supply chain attackAI-powered malware hit 2,180 GitHub accounts in “s1ngularity” attackHackers breach Toptal GitHub account, publish malicious npm packagesNPM package ‘is’ with 2.8M weekly downloads infected devs with malware
CryptoCurrency
Ethereum
npm
Solana
Supply Chain
Supply Chain Attack
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
Elastoer
-
4 days ago
$20.05. That's hysterical!
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
Sponsor Posts
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
How to tell if your organization’s credentials have been exposed?
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT