Parenting - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Lifestyle
Parenting
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
My daughter is studying abroad in Italy this semester. I didn't expect to be this panicked about the distance.
4 min read
I called my sister and her friend answered as a joke. We talked for 20 minutes, and now we're married.
4 min read
My husband and I chose to live in Washington, DC, based on job opportunities. I wish we'd chosen to live closer to family.
I love our life in Washington, DC, but I wish we'd chosen to be closer to family instead of prioritizing our careers when deciding where to live.
4 min read
I moved to Colombia and had my 3 kids there. The births were so cheap that I still can't believe the total cost.
As an American, I'm used to high healthcare costs. When I moved to Colombia and had a C-section, it shockingly cost just $123 — with a private room.
4 min read
I moved from the US to Wales 14 years ago. Raising kids away from my family is harder than I thought.
I didn't consider how hard it would be to stay close to my family when I moved. Now I have three kids and I have make an effort to visit every year.
6 min read
I became a single father of twins at 49. It was the best decision of my life.
I wanted to be a dad since I was a little kid. I focused on my career first and then realized I was alone. Through surrogacy I had twins.
6 min read
As a firstborn, I know what it's like to be the oldest sibling. I empathize with how my daughter feels about the responsibility.
Growing up as the oldest child, I felt like my siblings were my responsibility. I'm working hard to make sure my daughter doesn't feel the same way.
4 min read
My college kids went back to school, so I went on a cruise alone. It was awkward at first, but I loved my alone time.
I boarded the Royal Caribbean cruise ship without my kids or my husband. The trip was much more relaxing than traveling with my family.
4 min read
My parents got divorced after 35 years. Their split strengthened my marriage.
Even thought I was 34 years old when my dad asked for a divorce, I still mourned their split. They are happier now that they aren't together.
4 min read
I tried to manage my kids' screen time, then I realized my own was out of control
I always imagined I'd be the type of parent who was strict about screen time, but it's hard to manage when I'm not setting a good example for them.
4 min read
I was 39 and my husband was 46 when our daughter was born. I'm concerned about the future as an older parent.
I became a first-time mom a month before turning 40. My second child was born when I was 42. I keep comparing myself unfavorably with younger parents.
4 min read
I thought my move from Massachusetts to Maine was temporary. I've been here for over 20 years.
In 2003 I moved with my boyfriend to Portland, Maine from Boston. My dream was to move to California, but then I found out I was pregnant.
5 min read
8 phone rules parents should set for kids, according to Facebook's former chief security officer
Facebook's former chief security officer, Alex Stamos, who said his daughter was allowed a phone at 13, outlined his phone rules for kids.
4 min read
After 20 years in sales at companies like Tesla and Wells Fargo, I'm DoorDashing to support my daughters
Ilya Brunshteyn, a divorced dad of two, is having a hard time finding a new role after getting laid off last December.
5 min read
I'm a single dad of 3 working in tech. Remote work, strict boundaries, and a strong support system help me balance everything.
As a single dad balancing remote work and parenting three kids, my days are always full. Here's how I make sure to be there for my kids and at my job.
5 min read
For nearly two decades I was a full-time working mother. Then, I lost my job and 2 of my 3 kids moved away.
I lost my job then 2 of my 3 kids left for school. Overnight, my calendar cleared and my phone stopped buzzing. The shift was harder than I expected.
4 min read
Working multiple jobs gave me flexibility when I started having kids. They're older now, but I can't give up that perk.
My kids are tweens and teens, but returning to a full-time role doesn't seem possible. I need more flexibility than a single job can provide.
4 min read
I believed these 5 misconceptions about homeschooling. Years later, I know I was wrong.
Before homeschooling my two teenagers, I believed these misconceptions. I learned it's not too difficult, and my kids will still have friends.
5 min read
I'm a female breadwinner who's done being a girlboss. I want my legacy to be motherhood, not my ability to rot away in a corporate office.
Henley Carr quit trying to be a girlboss when she realized her career didn't fulfill her. Becoming a mother helped her realize her purpose.
5 min read
I thought I'd be less stressed when my kids headed back to school. I was wrong.
My kid had been back in school for two hours and 29 minutes when I got the first call asking me to come get him. It's overwhelming as a working mom.
4 min read
My husband and I had different viewpoints on spending. Over the past 18 years we've learned how to meet in the middle.
My husband is a saver, while I prefer to spend money on things that will bring our family joy. It took us years to see eye-to-eye on money.
3 min read
I'm a mom of 2 and wrote a book about online safety. Here's what parents get wrong about digital security.
Cathy Pedrayes is perpetually online and is also a mom. She says
parents should set up child accounts to ensure they will have more safety features.
4 min read
I took an 11-year career break to raise my son. At 41, I took an internship and landed a senior role after 3 months.
Sripriya Balasubramaniam left her job at Oracle to raise her son. She was worried about getting back into the workforce, but turned an internship into a full-time role.
6 min read
They hadn't planned on buying property. Then came kids and a tiny house in the Philippines.
Dmitrii Stepanov always figured it made more sense to rent and invest than to buy a house. "But kids change everything," he told Business Insider.
5 min read
My teen texted me in the middle of the night to come get him from a sleepover. I want them to know I'm always there for them.
I want my teens to know that I am there for them always. I don't care how late or where they are, I will always show up to get them.
5 min read
When I dropped my son off at college and became an empty nester, I was hit with intense grief. It nearly broke me.
When I became an empty nester, old wounds were opened. I had to finally face the grief of losing my first son over a decade ago.
4 min read
My 13-year-old is earning money by refereeing soccer games. It's a great gig.
My teen loves soccer, so when we found out he could make some extra cash as a referee, we were all in. Now he's learning important job skills.
4 min read
Before I divorced my ex, we had planned to move to Hawaii to raise our daughter. We did it anyway.
We had planned this with her dad before we divorced. I also knew it was the best thing for my daughter. I needed extra support while he was deployed.
5 min read
We moved from Colorado to Massachusetts where we knew no one. It took time for us to find our place.
We moved our family from Colorado to New England. Starting over in a new place wasn't easy.
4 min read
I'm a passive parent — I don't cut the crust off sandwiches or tie shoelaces. I want my kids to be independent
Since my son was 4 months old he would hold his own bottle. I don't cut my kids' crust or help them tie their shoes. But I'm not checked out.
5 min read
I let my 15-year-old daughter go on a bus alone to New York City. I'm happy my teen is independent, but it's also scary and painful.
I've long taught my daughter to be independent, so I was glad to let her travel to New York City alone. I didn't realize how scary it would be for me.
4 min read
My son asked not to be contacted for a couple of days after his college move-in. The boundary helped us both adapt to our new normal.
When my son set the boundary, it hurt. I wanted to hear all about his first days in college, but I knew he needed his space, and I needed to readjust.
4 min read
Drew Barrymore shares the mantra that helps her and her kids feel calmer at home
Drew Barrymore also says she tries to normalize therapy for her daughters. "We all need tools to navigate the world, and asking for help is everything," she said.
3 min read
I attended an academically rigorous magnet high school. I loved it, but I wanted something different for my daughter.
I loved my magnet high school, but it forced me to be perfect. I want my daughter to enjoy high school and not be overwhelmed with school work.
4 min read
I gave my daughter a cellphone when she was 8. I still don't think they belong in schools.
My daughter started walking alone to school so I gave her a phone. I still don't think they belong in schools, and she's told me they are distracting.
5 min read
My kids swear and don't say 'please' or 'thank you.' I don't care.
My 7- and 5-year-olds don't say "please" and "thank you" and can often swear. That doesn't reflect on me being a bad parent. they are who they are.
4 min read
I teach at a community college. Sticking closer to home has benefits for students.
I've taught at both a 4-year university and a community college. More students should consider sticking closer to home for their schooling.
4 min read
I was raised to believe women could have it all. I stayed home to raise my kids and had to go back to work at 49 to get out of debt.
When I was 28 I decided to stay home to raise our kids while my husband worked. At 49 I had to go back to full time work because we were in debt.
4 min read
My 12-year-old was in a slump with baseball. Instead of making him feel better, I told him he wasn't putting in enough effort.
When my son was in a baseball slump I didn't brush off his misses. Instead, I told him he hadn't been putting in the work he needed to be good.
4 min read
I'm an empty nester. Everyone told me I'd be sad, but I'm not.
I was told being an empty nester would be sad, but I love seeing my daughter become more independent. It's also nice having time for myself.
4 min read
My husband and I made a conscious decision to say 'yes' to more things. I learned I can handle more.
In the last few months our family has taken two big trips and camped at a multi-day music festival. I'm much more comfortable with the unknown now.
4 min read
I worried homeschooling would make my kids antisocial and friendless. I was wrong.
I worried homeschooling would prevent my kids from having a healthy social life. They have plenty of friends, and I'm so glad I was proven wrong.
4 min read
My family of 4 was stressed and fought on vacation. This year, I split our teens up and took separate trips with them.
My family can rarely agree on anything while traveling. So, I took one kid to Quebec City, and my husband brought our other teen to Prague.
4 min read
My son's ADHD diagnosis scared me at first. 7 years later, I know it's made me a better parent and person.
I cried when my son was first diagnosed with ADHD. Now, I can see how learning to care for him and his unique needs has made me a better person.
4 min read
I visit my 82-year-old dad multiple times a week. He still tells people he's lonely.
Watching my father's health decline has been hard. When my patience runs low, I try to consider the frustration he must be feeling.
4 min read
I planned our 11-day family trip to Europe without focusing on our kids. It was a smashing success.
We took our 11-year-old twins on a trip to Europe through four countries. I didn't focus on them when creating the itinerary, and they still loved it.
5 min read
My younger daughter was excited to go to preschool full-time. The transition was not so easy for me.
My younger daughter just started full-time preschool. I'm glad the transition was easy on her, but I'm struggling with unexpected grief.
5 min read
My 10-year-old was craving independence so I got him a landline. He's already organizing his own playdates.
I was tired of managing my son's social life and he wanted to be more independent. I got him a Tin Can and immediately he was loving it.
4 min read
It costs nearly $300,000 to raise a child in the US. Here's the annual cost in every state.
On average, US parents spend 22.6% of their income on costs related to raising their children each year, a report found.
19 min read
As a high school teacher, I see first hand how a lack of motivation can impact teens. Here's how parents can help them feel more inspired.
A lack of academic motivation is impacting high school students in a big way. To find out why, I asked my own students what drives them.
5 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.