The best iPad stylus of 2025: We took notes with the top picks | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: September 16, 2025 at 9:43 AM PDT
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
iPad
Updated on: September 16, 2025 at 9:43 AM PDT
The best iPad stylus you can buy: The best options for writing and drawing
Check out our picks for the best iPad styluses of 2025, from recommended brands like Apple, ESR, and Logitech.
Written by
Allison Murray, Senior EditorSenior Editor
and
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Apple Pencil 2 | Best iPad stylus overall
Best iPad stylus overall
Apple Pencil 2
View now View at Amazon Apple Pencil Pro | Best iPad stylus for newer iPad Pro and Air models
Best iPad stylus for newer iPad Pro and Air models
Apple Pencil Pro
View now View at Amazon ESR Geo Digital Pencil | Best Apple alternative with Find My
Best Apple alternative with Find My
ESR Geo Digital Pencil
View now View at Amazon
Logitech Crayon | Best iPad stylus for notetaking
Best iPad stylus for notetaking
Logitech Crayon
View now View at Amazon Adonit Note+2 | Best Apple Pencil 2 alternative
Best Apple Pencil 2 alternative
Adonit Note+2
View now View at Amazon Jamjake Stylus Pen | Best budget iPad stylus
Best budget iPad stylus
Jamjake Stylus Pen
View now View at Amazon Apple Pencil (first-gen) | Best Apple Pencil alternative
Best Apple Pencil alternative
Apple Pencil (first-gen)
View now View at Best Buy Apple Pencil (USB-C) | Best affordable Apple Pencil alternative
Best affordable Apple Pencil alternative
Apple Pencil (USB-C)
View now View at Amazon Wacom Bamboo Ink Stylus Pen | Best stylus pen for Windows systems
Best stylus pen for Windows systems
Wacom Bamboo Ink Stylus Pen
View now View at Amazon
Show more (6 items)
Best tablet deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $180 (save $40)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $299 (save $50)
Lenovo Tab M9 32GB Wi-Fi 9-inch Tablet With Folio Case (2023 Release):  $95 (save $70)
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus 32GB Tablet (2022 Release, Slate):  $55 (save $65)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $395 (save $86) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
An iPad stylus is an invaluable asset that will take your Apple tablet to the next level. This handy tool allows you more control and precision for notetaking, drawing, and editing. The Apple Pencil Pro is probably the first thing you think of when you start looking for the perfect iPad stylus, but it's far from the only option. Many third-party styluses are just as capable as Apple, and a lot more affordable. The best iPad stylus right now for most people is the Apple Pencil 2 or Apple Pencil Pro, but we've tested other options to explore. Get more in-depth ZDNET tech coverage: Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.What is the best iPad stylus right now?Our top pick for the best iPad stylus right now is the Apple Pencil (2nd Gen) for its wireless charging capabilities, sleek design, ease of use, and compatibility options. ZDNET experts evaluate stylus options often in tandem with the latest iPads and software, so we're experiencing the products just as you might. We've also tested plenty of other styluses, including options for the M4 iPads and budget picks.Also: Apple Pencil Pro vs. Apple Pencil 2: Which is right for you?
Sort by
All
The best iPad stylus of 2025 Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best BuyView now at Other World Computing Why we like it: Our verdict of the best stylus for iPads is the Apple Pencil 2, or the second generation, which was built specifically for iPads. This Apple Pencil builds on the first-generation model by attaching to the side of the iPad Pro, charging wirelessly, and including a double-tap function that you can customize to switch between pencil and eraser or show the color palettes. In our testing of the Apple Pencil, we found it to be super responsive and to have pixel-perfect precision with industry-leading low latency to write, markup, or draw. It also has tilt sensitivity and palm-rejection technology, so the screen only recognizes the Apple Pencil instead of your hand or finger.Who it's for: The Apple Pencil 2 is for those looking to maximize the full potential of their iPad.
said that if you can find the stylus at a discount, it's a worthy investment for an everyday iPad user. Who should look elsewhere: If you're a serious iPad user for editing, writing, and drawing, you may want to consider the Apple Pencil Pro, if your device is compatible. Similarly, if you just need a stylus for infrequent use, there's really no need to purchase any of Apple's flagship pencils. Plenty of alternatives get the job done. Also: How to pair and charge your Apple pencilApple Pencil 2 specs: Weight: 0.73 ounces | Battery life: Around 12 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes | Compatibility: iPad mini (sixth-generation), iPad Air (fourth- or fifth-generation), iPad Pro 12.9-inch (third-0, fourth-, fifth-, or sixth-generation), iPad Pro 11-inch (first-, second-, third-, or fourth-generation)
Pros
Magnetically clips to the iPad Pro and iPad Air to charge wirelessly
Intuitive touch surface that supports double-tapping and pressure sensitivity
Palm-rejection technology
Drops to $79 during many sale periods
Cons
Expensive if not on sale
Limited iPad compatibility
Apple Pencil 2 Best iPad stylus overall
Why we like it: Our verdict of the best stylus for iPads is the Apple Pencil 2, or the second generation, which was built specifically for iPads. This Apple Pencil builds on the first-generation model by attaching to the side of the iPad Pro, charging wirelessly, and including a double-tap function that you can customize to switch between pencil and eraser or show the color palettes. In our testing of the Apple Pencil, we found it to be super responsive and to have pixel-perfect precision with industry-leading low latency to write, markup, or draw. It also has tilt sensitivity and palm-rejection technology, so the screen only recognizes the Apple Pencil instead of your hand or finger.Who it's for: The Apple Pencil 2 is for those looking to maximize the full potential of their iPad.
said that if you can find the stylus at a discount, it's a worthy investment for an everyday iPad user. Who should look elsewhere: If you're a serious iPad user for editing, writing, and drawing, you may want to consider the Apple Pencil Pro, if your device is compatible. Similarly, if you just need a stylus for infrequent use, there's really no need to purchase any of Apple's flagship pencils. Plenty of alternatives get the job done. Also: How to pair and charge your Apple pencilApple Pencil 2 specs: Weight: 0.73 ounces | Battery life: Around 12 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes | Compatibility: iPad mini (sixth-generation), iPad Air (fourth- or fifth-generation), iPad Pro 12.9-inch (third-0, fourth-, fifth-, or sixth-generation), iPad Pro 11-inch (first-, second-, third-, or fourth-generation)
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at AppleView now at Best Buy Apple unveiled a new lineup of M3 and M4 iPad Air and Pro models in 2024. Alongside the M3 and M4 tablets released in 2024, Apple also introduced the released the Apple Pencil Pro. It was the first actual upgrade to Apple's stylus lineup since the 2018 release of the Apple Pencil 2. Why we like it: The stylus incorporates advanced features like squeeze, barrel roll, and haptic feedback to make marking up, taking notes, and creating an artistic masterpiece more intuitive. The Apple Pencil Pro charges wirelessly and works with the newest iPad Pro and upgraded software, which makes it our top stylus choice for the newest iPad Pro and Air models.Who it's for: Purchasing the Apple Pencil Pro makes sense if you have a newer tablet. The tool's advanced features leverage the tablet's upgraded tech for you to get the best experience with the iPad. Who should look elsewhere: If you're not an everyday stylus user, skip the Pro for another Apple alternative or competitor product. Also: Apple Pencil Pro vs. Apple Pencil 2Apple Pencil Pro specs: Weight: 0.68 ounces | Battery life: Around 12 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes | Added Features: Barrel roll, Squeeze gesture, Double tap, and Find My technology | Compatibility: iPad Pro 13-inch (M4), iPad Pro 11-inch (M4), iPad Air 13-inch (M2 and M3), iPad Air 11-inch (M2 and M3), iPad Mini (A17 Pro)
Pros
Find My technology
Squeeze gesture
Double tap feature
Barrel roll feature
Leverages new chips and upgraded software
Cons
Compatible with mostly iPad Air and Pro models only
Expensive
Apple Pencil Pro Best iPad stylus for newer iPad Pro and Air models
Apple unveiled a new lineup of M3 and M4 iPad Air and Pro models in 2024. Alongside the M3 and M4 tablets released in 2024, Apple also introduced the released the Apple Pencil Pro. It was the first actual upgrade to Apple's stylus lineup since the 2018 release of the Apple Pencil 2. Why we like it: The stylus incorporates advanced features like squeeze, barrel roll, and haptic feedback to make marking up, taking notes, and creating an artistic masterpiece more intuitive. The Apple Pencil Pro charges wirelessly and works with the newest iPad Pro and upgraded software, which makes it our top stylus choice for the newest iPad Pro and Air models.Who it's for: Purchasing the Apple Pencil Pro makes sense if you have a newer tablet. The tool's advanced features leverage the tablet's upgraded tech for you to get the best experience with the iPad. Who should look elsewhere: If you're not an everyday stylus user, skip the Pro for another Apple alternative or competitor product. Also: Apple Pencil Pro vs. Apple Pencil 2Apple Pencil Pro specs: Weight: 0.68 ounces | Battery life: Around 12 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes | Added Features: Barrel roll, Squeeze gesture, Double tap, and Find My technology | Compatibility: iPad Pro 13-inch (M4), iPad Pro 11-inch (M4), iPad Air 13-inch (M2 and M3), iPad Air 11-inch (M2 and M3), iPad Mini (A17 Pro)
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: ESR's digital pencil is a $35 budget alternative packed with features. While this pencil doesn't have wireless charging, it has features like quick charge to full in 30 minutes or less and a 12-hour battery life. It also uses Bluetooth Find My tracking in case you're prone to losing your stylus and can secure magnetically to your iPad. Like the more expensive Apple Pencil models, this ESR pencil has easy shortcuts. Connecting to Bluetooth enables tap to return to the main interface, double tap to access the task manager, and view real-time battery level display. There's also tilt sensitive and palm rejection for maximum control, though there isn't pressure sensitivity. After testing the ESR pencil with my iPad Air unit over the last several months, I'm impressed. I actually prefer the weight and feel of this pencil over the Apple Pencil 2. ESR's model makes Apple's feel top heavy. It's comfortable and easy to use, and I appreciate the competitive features. I missed the wireless charging, but for almost a $100 difference, I can get over it. It also comes in pink or black in addition to white, which is a fun bonus. Who it's for: A beginner iPad stylus user or someone who isn't looking to use the full potential of Apple's iPad and stylus connectivity. It's also a great pick for a those on a budget.Who should look elsewhere: Serious iPad users or those looking to complete detailed professional work in editing, design and more may want the seamless compatibiity and specially designed offerings delivered in an Apple-made stylus. ESR Geo Digital Pencil specs: Weight: 0.476 ounces | Battery life: Around 12 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes | Compatibility: All iPads after 2018 | Find My Bluetooth Enabled Tracking | USB-C charging | Magnetic Attachment | Easy, customizable shortcuts
Pros
Under $35
Wide compatibility
Bluetooth tracking
Palm/Tilt rejection
Quick charging
Replaceable tips
Cons
No wireless charging
ESR Geo Digital Pencil Best Apple alternative with Find My
Why we like it: ESR's digital pencil is a $35 budget alternative packed with features. While this pencil doesn't have wireless charging, it has features like quick charge to full in 30 minutes or less and a 12-hour battery life. It also uses Bluetooth Find My tracking in case you're prone to losing your stylus and can secure magnetically to your iPad. Like the more expensive Apple Pencil models, this ESR pencil has easy shortcuts. Connecting to Bluetooth enables tap to return to the main interface, double tap to access the task manager, and view real-time battery level display. There's also tilt sensitive and palm rejection for maximum control, though there isn't pressure sensitivity. After testing the ESR pencil with my iPad Air unit over the last several months, I'm impressed. I actually prefer the weight and feel of this pencil over the Apple Pencil 2. ESR's model makes Apple's feel top heavy. It's comfortable and easy to use, and I appreciate the competitive features. I missed the wireless charging, but for almost a $100 difference, I can get over it. It also comes in pink or black in addition to white, which is a fun bonus. Who it's for: A beginner iPad stylus user or someone who isn't looking to use the full potential of Apple's iPad and stylus connectivity. It's also a great pick for a those on a budget.Who should look elsewhere: Serious iPad users or those looking to complete detailed professional work in editing, design and more may want the seamless compatibiity and specially designed offerings delivered in an Apple-made stylus. ESR Geo Digital Pencil specs: Weight: 0.476 ounces | Battery life: Around 12 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes | Compatibility: All iPads after 2018 | Find My Bluetooth Enabled Tracking | USB-C charging | Magnetic Attachment | Easy, customizable shortcuts
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best BuyView now at B&H Photo-Video Why we like it: The Logitech Crayon is built using Apple Pencil technology and can be used with hundreds of Apple Pencil-supported apps. It's the only non-Apple stylus with the tech giant's stamp of approval. It's even sold on Apple's website.Like the Apple Pencil, the Logitech Crayon has tip-tilt technology. This means its smart tip dynamically adjusts line weight depending on the angle you place it down -- just like a regular pencil. Review: Logitech CrayonWho it's for: The Logitech Crayon is good for casual stylus user or as an Apple Pencil 2 alternative. ZDNET's Kerry Wan tested out the Logitech Crayon and thought the flat form factor was much more comfortable and offered a reassuring grip compared to the Apple Pencil. "The Crayon is great for jotting down notes and serving as a more accurate touchpoint than your finger," Wan wrote. Who should look elsewhere: If you're looking to complete detailed drawing, sketching, or graphic design work, you may want to skip out.  liked the Crayon's scaled-back practical features and cheaper price point. Some Redditors don't think it edges out the Apple Pencil 2 for tasks like drawing, largely because it doesn't have pressure sensitivity. It's a good alternative for casual users or those looking to take notes. Logitech Crayon specs: Weight: 0.70 ounces | Battery life: 7.5 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes
Pros
Tilt technology for thicker lines when drawing
Comfortable form factor
Apple Pencil technology without the Apple Pencil price tag
Cons
Battery life could be better
No pressure sensitivity
Logitech Crayon Best iPad stylus for notetaking
Why we like it: The Logitech Crayon is built using Apple Pencil technology and can be used with hundreds of Apple Pencil-supported apps. It's the only non-Apple stylus with the tech giant's stamp of approval. It's even sold on Apple's website.Like the Apple Pencil, the Logitech Crayon has tip-tilt technology. This means its smart tip dynamically adjusts line weight depending on the angle you place it down -- just like a regular pencil. Review: Logitech CrayonWho it's for: The Logitech Crayon is good for casual stylus user or as an Apple Pencil 2 alternative. ZDNET's Kerry Wan tested out the Logitech Crayon and thought the flat form factor was much more comfortable and offered a reassuring grip compared to the Apple Pencil. "The Crayon is great for jotting down notes and serving as a more accurate touchpoint than your finger," Wan wrote. Who should look elsewhere: If you're looking to complete detailed drawing, sketching, or graphic design work, you may want to skip out.  liked the Crayon's scaled-back practical features and cheaper price point. Some Redditors don't think it edges out the Apple Pencil 2 for tasks like drawing, largely because it doesn't have pressure sensitivity. It's a good alternative for casual users or those looking to take notes. Logitech Crayon specs: Weight: 0.70 ounces | Battery life: 7.5 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: The Adonit Note+2 stylus is the only other stylus on our list with pressure sensitivity. This makes it an excellent option if you don't want to spend over $100 on the Apple Pencil. I went hands-on with the Adonit Note+2, and it impressed me with its exceptional accuracy and responsiveness. Writing in the Notes app was seamless and certainly scratched my tactile itch for writing pen to paper. The Adonit Note+2 also comes with three interchangeable tips for options depending on whether you draw, write, or sketch. Who it's for: If you want a similar experience to the Apple Pencil and the ability to change tips. Who should look elsewhere: If you're not interested in changing tips or want the full scope of iPad features to be compatible with your stylus. Adonit Note+2 tech specs: Weight: 0.49 ounces | Battery life: 8 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes
Pros
Exceptional alternative to the Apple Pencil
Pressure sensitivity and palm recognition
Customizable shortcuts
Cons
Pressure sensitivity only works in certain apps
Adonit Note+2 Best Apple Pencil 2 alternative
Why we like it: The Adonit Note+2 stylus is the only other stylus on our list with pressure sensitivity. This makes it an excellent option if you don't want to spend over $100 on the Apple Pencil. I went hands-on with the Adonit Note+2, and it impressed me with its exceptional accuracy and responsiveness. Writing in the Notes app was seamless and certainly scratched my tactile itch for writing pen to paper. The Adonit Note+2 also comes with three interchangeable tips for options depending on whether you draw, write, or sketch. Who it's for: If you want a similar experience to the Apple Pencil and the ability to change tips. Who should look elsewhere: If you're not interested in changing tips or want the full scope of iPad features to be compatible with your stylus. Adonit Note+2 tech specs: Weight: 0.49 ounces | Battery life: 8 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: This stylus from Jamjake costs a whole $100 less than the Apple Pencil, making it a far more budget-friendly option. Its 1.5mm pen tip makes it easy to draw without lags or slips, and the palm rejection technology allows for a more natural handwriting feel. The stylus pen's battery life is up to 20 hours on a full charge, and it automatically goes into Sleep Mode after five minutes of idle time to conserve battery power.Also: The top stylus pens (and if they work for all devices)Who it's for: No fuss or frill stylus users who want a cheap option that gets mundane, basic tasks done. Who should look elsewhere: Those looking for more advanced features and seamless Apple design will want to spend a bit more. Verified customers on Amazon give this stylus a 4.4- out of 5-star rating online, with many liking the sleek design, balanced construction, and lag-free responsiveness. Some customers said while the stylus lacked pressure sensitivity, it still performed well for the price. Jamjake Stylus Pen specs: Weight: 2.08 ounces | Battery life: 20 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: No
Pros
Cheaper option than the Apple Pencil
Charges quickly and holds a charge for long
Cons
No pressure sensitivity
Works best with a tempered glass screen protector rather than a naked screen
Jamjake Stylus Pen Best budget iPad stylus
Why we like it: This stylus from Jamjake costs a whole $100 less than the Apple Pencil, making it a far more budget-friendly option. Its 1.5mm pen tip makes it easy to draw without lags or slips, and the palm rejection technology allows for a more natural handwriting feel. The stylus pen's battery life is up to 20 hours on a full charge, and it automatically goes into Sleep Mode after five minutes of idle time to conserve battery power.Also: The top stylus pens (and if they work for all devices)Who it's for: No fuss or frill stylus users who want a cheap option that gets mundane, basic tasks done. Who should look elsewhere: Those looking for more advanced features and seamless Apple design will want to spend a bit more. Verified customers on Amazon give this stylus a 4.4- out of 5-star rating online, with many liking the sleek design, balanced construction, and lag-free responsiveness. Some customers said while the stylus lacked pressure sensitivity, it still performed well for the price. Jamjake Stylus Pen specs: Weight: 2.08 ounces | Battery life: 20 hours | Palm rejection: Yes | Tilt recognition: No
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less What is the best iPad stylus?
The best iPad stylus is the Apple Pencil 2, which was made to work specifically with iPad models. With features like pressure sensitivity and hovering abilities, the Apple Pencil is built for just about anything on the iPad. For newer M4 iPad models, ZDNET recommends leveling up to the Apple Pencil Pro. iPad stylusPriceBattery lifeTilt recognition?Apple Pencil 2$7212 hoursYesApple Pencil Pro$9912 hoursYesESR Geo Digital Pencil$3312 hoursYesLogitech Crayon$547.5 hoursYesAdonit Note+2$708 hoursYesJamjake Stylus Pen$1820 hoursNo*MSRP at the time of writing. Please note that actual prices may vary depending on available sales, deals, discounts, and coupons.
Show more
Which iPad stylus is right for you?
While any of these iPad styluses we listed are great picks, it ultimately comes down to if tilt recognition is important to you, what kind of battery life you need, and what price you're willing to spend.Choose this iPad stylus...If you want...Apple Pencil 2The best overall option. The Apple Pencil was made for the iPad and has unique features like the hover function.Apple Pencil ProThe most intuitive stylus experience for the newest iPad Air and Pro models.ESR Geo Digital PencilA budget option with Find My Bluetooth technology.Logitech CrayonA great stylus for drawing on iPad apps. It has a smart tip that dynamically adjusts line weight depending on the angle you place it down.Adonit Note+ 2A runner-up alternative to the best iPad stylus. Like the Apple Pencil, it has pressure sensitivity, but it costs $59 less.Jamjake Stylus PenA basic stylus that's cheaper than the Apple Pencil. In addition, it has palm rejection technology.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing an iPad stylus
If you're in the market for an iPad Stylus, here's a few things to keep in mind:Features: Special features like palm-rejection technology and tilt-sensing are important to have in a stylus to make the writing experience feel more natural. Think about what you want to use your stylus for and which features are necessary for that -- drawing will be more challenging with a stylus that lacks pressure recognition. Compatibility: Not all stylus pens are compatible with all iPad models, so consider options that would work with your device. Price: Stylus pens range in price from $20 all the way to $130, so decide on how much you are willing to spend to help narrow down your list.
Show more
How did we choose these iPad stylus picks?
We chose these stylus options after extensive research into the product category and by going hands-on with some of these products. We looked at renowned brands and reviews -- both good and bad -- and noted the top-rated styluses for different needs. Ultimately, factors like cost, compatibility, and use case guided our top picks. We additionally consider ease of use, function, battery life, and other direct features to help ensure we're recommending the best of the best to you.
Show more
Latest news on iPad stylusesThe Apple Pencil celebrated its 10th birthday in September.According to reported rumors, Apple has been granted a patent for an Apple Pencil that would work across multiple Apple devices. This means a future Apple Pencil model could work on an iPad, as well as an iPhone. FAQs on styluses for iPads
When will new iPads be released?
Apple released its newest iPad models in March 12, 2025. These include the iPad 11th-gen and the 11-inch iPad Air M3. Apple didn't announce any new iPads during its September event, so it's likely we won't see any new models until next year.
Show more
Is it worth getting a stylus for iPad?
An iPad stylus is worth it if you do a lot of notetaking or marking up documents, writing lists, drawing, or sketching with your iPad. Also: The best iPad Pro cases you can buy under $150A stylus pen is much more precise than your fingers, so any type of precision work is better, but if you only use your iPad for entertainment or games, you may not need to invest in a stylus if it's just going to collect dust. Any accessory is only as good as you make it, and if it isn't being utilized for your daily activities, it's probably not worth it.
Show more
Can I use a non-Apple stylus with an iPad?
Yes and no. Plenty of Apple Pencil alternatives will be compatible with various iPad models, and you certainly don't have to purchase an Apple stylus. We've included several non-Apple picks on the list for you to consider, but ultimately, it's best to make sure you double-check the stylus compatibilities as indicated by the brand before purchasing. Some iPad iterations don't even support the Apple Pencil, so make sure to do your homework.
Show more
Why is the Apple Pencil so expensive?
The Apple Pencil's hefty price tag can be attributed to Apple's esteemed brand value, its advanced technology offerings, the research and design that supported them, and demand.
Show more
Does the Apple Pencil ever go on sale?
Yes, the Apple Pencil lineup sees discounts during the year at major retailers like Best Buy, Amazon, Walmart, and more. Shopping events such as Black Friday, Cyber Monday, Christmastime, Presidents' Day, Back to School, and during Prime Days are popular periods of the year where you can expect to see a drop in the Apple Pencil. The Apple Pencil 2 has dropped to $79, or $50 less, several times this year. The Pencil Pro has started to see its first discounts since its release, usually selling for $90-$98 on sale.
Show more
Does any stylus work with iPad?
No. Before buying any stylus, read the list of compatible devices. And yes, you must ensure your iPad is compatible with different Apple Pencil models since compatibility varies between generations.
Show more
Latest updatesIn our September 2025 update, we made minor editorial changes, verified product prices and availability, and included the latest news on styluses. In our August 2025 update, we updated information about each of our top picks, removed outdated products, and added an FAQ on new iPad models. In our June 2025 update, we added ESR's Geo Digital Pencil as a budget pick for an iPad stylus. Other iPad styluses worth considering  Show less
View now at Best Buy This Apple Pencil is compatible with numerous older iPad models, as well as the iPad 10th-gen with a USB-C adapter. The tool still boasts tilt and pressure sensitivity. For $99, you get the original Apple Pencil, a lightning adapter, USB-C to Apple Pencil Adapter, and an extra tip.
Apple Pencil (first-gen) Best Apple Pencil alternative
This Apple Pencil is compatible with numerous older iPad models, as well as the iPad 10th-gen with a USB-C adapter. The tool still boasts tilt and pressure sensitivity. For $99, you get the original Apple Pencil, a lightning adapter, USB-C to Apple Pencil Adapter, and an extra tip.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at AppleView now at Best Buy The Apple Pencil (USB-C) includes some of the same features as the Apple Pencil 2. The tool has low latency and tilt sensitivity but lacks pressure sensitivity and wireless charging. The Apple Pencil (USB-C) supports the magnetic storage and the hover feature.is compatible with an extensive amount of iPad models including the new M4 versions. It is also cheaper than the other Apple Pencil models.
Apple Pencil (USB-C) Best affordable Apple Pencil alternative
The Apple Pencil (USB-C) includes some of the same features as the Apple Pencil 2. The tool has low latency and tilt sensitivity but lacks pressure sensitivity and wireless charging. The Apple Pencil (USB-C) supports the magnetic storage and the hover feature.is compatible with an extensive amount of iPad models including the new M4 versions. It is also cheaper than the other Apple Pencil models.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best BuyView now at B&H Photo-Video If you have a tablet other than an iPad, you're not out of luck. This Wacom pen offers crisp Windows-powered function for under $50.The stylus supports more than 4,000 pressure levels and can launch Windows Ink Workspace with a tap.The Wacom pen is made out of aluminum for durability, clips to the front of your tablet, sports two programmable side switches for shortcuts, and runs on an AAAA battery.
Wacom Bamboo Ink Stylus Pen Best stylus pen for Windows systems
If you have a tablet other than an iPad, you're not out of luck. This Wacom pen offers crisp Windows-powered function for under $50.The stylus supports more than 4,000 pressure levels and can launch Windows Ink Workspace with a tap.The Wacom pen is made out of aluminum for durability, clips to the front of your tablet, sports two programmable side switches for shortcuts, and runs on an AAAA battery.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less For more information on styluses, as well as tips and tricks, check out the 12 Apple Pencil Pro features and settings you should know, and the best smart pens you can buy.
Further ZDNET Tech Coverage
Smartphones
Best Android phone
Best smartphone
Best Samsung phone
Best iPhone
Best rugged Phones
Best Google phone
Best foldable phone
Best flip phone
Best 5G phone
Best cheap phone
Best stylus phone
Best Motorola phone
Smartwatches
Best smartwatch
Best blood pressure watch
Best Garmin Watch
Best Apple watch
Best Android smartwatch
Best Apple Watch Ultra strap
Best waterproof smartwatch
Best kids smartwatch
Best cheap smartwatch
Best sports watch
Tablets
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Laptops
Best laptop overall
Best Linux laptop
Best laptop for graphic design
Best lightweight laptops
Best Lenovo laptop
Best budget gaming laptop
Best 15-inch laptop
Best laptop under $1000
Best Windows laptop
Best laptop for video editing
TVs
Best TV overall
Best 85-inch TV
Best 50-inch TV
Best Samsung TV
Best Sony TV
Best Roku TV
Best 40-inch TV
Best 75-inch TV
Best 32-inch TV
Best TV for PS5
Best OLED TV
Best Hisense TV
Other Tech Resources
Is Temu legit? Everything to know before placing an order
How to download YouTube videos for free
How to screen record in Windows 10 or 11
How to create a drop down list in excel
How to use Microsoft Designer’s Image Creator
How to upgrade your incompatible Windows 10 PC to Windows 11
How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you
How to screen mirror Android to TV
How to turn on private DNS mode on Android
What is ChatGPT?
How to record a call on iPhone
How to record a call on your Android phone
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use