Fat Bear Week 2025 gets an early start due to big salmon run : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Fat Bear Week 2025 gets an early start due to big salmon run The famous bears of Alaska's Katmai National Park are enjoying an abundance of salmon, and even some playtime, as they pack on pounds to prepare for the winter.
Animals
Fat Bear Week is here early, and the bears are fat and playful
September 19, 20255:00 AM ET
By
Bill Chappell
A female brown bear named 909, known for her blond ears and fishing skills, is seen last fall in the Brooks River in Katmai National Park. As the park's bears pack on pounds to prepare for hibernation, online voters choose a winner in the annual Fat Bear Week bracket tournament.
T. Carmack/National Park Service
hide caption
toggle caption
T. Carmack/National Park Service
Fat Bear Week, when people get to pick their favorite Alaskan brown bear bulking up for hibernation, is coming early this year. The annual online competition that normally starts in early October will instead start on Sept. 23. Katmai National Park and Preserve officials say the bears are magnificently plump ahead of the tournament.
Animals
In a rematch, mama bear Grazer defeats rival that killed her cub to win Fat Bear Week
"This year's salmon run was extraordinary, with salmon numbers surpassing anything seen in recent memory," Matt Johnson, the park's interpretation program manager, told NPR via email. "As a result, the brown bears of Katmai are well-nourished and looking for other things to do besides scrap[p]ing with each other for food." The bracket for Fat Bear Week 2025 will be revealed on Sept. 22, when fans will see where familiar names of past champions, such as 128 Grazer, 480 Otis and 747— aka Bear Force One, estimated to weigh a whopping 1,400 pounds — stack up against new challengers. The single-elimination tournament starts on Sept. 23 and runs through Sept. 30, when a new champion will emerge. Fat Bear Junior, for bear cubs, started on Thursday.
Sponsor Message
Organizers expect votes to come from across the planet. "Over one million votes were cast for the bears in 2024 from one hundred countries," the park said as it announced this year's dates. The brown bears of Katmai occupy the rarest strata of celebrity: captivating and oblivious, thanks to the "bearcams" that beam their activities in the scenic Brooks Falls and other areas to online viewers around the world.
The abundance of salmon in Katmai National Park and Bristol Bay in southern Alaska is contributing to a drop in conflict among the bears this year compared to the 2024 competition, which was delayed when one large bear killed another. Voters then propelled Grazer to a landslide win over the massive 32 Chunk, a bear that, months earlier, had killed one of Grazer's cubs.
Animals
March Madness is underway. So is March Napness, the tournament for hibernating bears
"This year there was less congregating at Brooks Falls, less fighting, and — astonishingly — noticeably more playtime with each other," Johnson said. Chunk brings a compelling storyline to this year's competition. This summer, he arrived at the river with a broken jaw and other wounds that are believed to be the result of a fight, according to Explore.org, which operates webcams in the park. Since then, he's been seen fishing and adapting to his injury — "and even playing gently with younger bears like 503," the Katmai Conservancy stated, as it celebrated the bear's resiliency. "Still here. Still fishing. Still Chunk," the group said.
Sponsor Message
Fat Bear Week started in 2014 as a way for the general public and students to learn more about brown bears, sockeye salmon and the vibrant ecosystem they share. Viewers watch as bears that emerged in the spring looking gaunt and bony enter a condition called hyperphagia, which stokes a relentless hunger to eat so they can pack on fat they'll need to survive another winter. By the time fall arrives, large males routinely surpass 1,000 pounds, according to the Katmai website. "There are anywhere between 80-100 bears that return to the Brooks River every year," Sarah Bruce, media team lead at the national park, told NPR. Most of them learned to fish the river as cubs alongside their mother bears, she said. Only 12 of them are featured in the annual Fat Bear Week competition. Overall, Katmai National Park and Preserve has an estimated 2,200 bears within its boundaries, Bruce said.
fat bear week
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor