An exciting new era - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
A catalyst for better
An exciting new era
We are on a mission to drive open science forward. We see the world through a lens of possibility, but we are not interested in change for the sake of change. We believe in better. In 2025 and beyond, we will build on our catalytic legacy to effect positive change across all three of our focus areas. Here are just three examples.
Open science publishing
At the end of this year, we embarked on a new Research and Design project, with generous funder support, that will tackle two barriers that exclude many researchers from meaningful participation in open science: the affordability of APCs and the lack of recognition for open science contributions beyond articles.
Our aim is to develop a new, integrated solution that enhances the visibility and discoverability of non-article research outputs, including data, code, and methods. Grounded in principles of equity and price transparency, we are also looking to develop a sustainable, non-APC business model for all research outputs in collaboration with funders, libraries, and scientific institutions.
Open science policy
We are working in partnership with CoalitionS and JISC to engage a multi-stakeholder working group tasked with identifying business models and arrangements that move away from article-based charges enabling more equitable participation in knowledge-sharing. A key outcome of that working group is the “How Equitable is it?” framework (currently in beta), which we hope will enable funders, library consortia, and research communities to evaluate business models on the axis of equity and seek publishing solutions that directly align with their values.
Open science practice
At the end of 2024, PLOS was awarded a $3.3 million grant from the Gates Foundation, underscoring its pioneering commitment to shift way from traditional publishing models. The 3-year funding package will support PLOS’ transition towards APC-free publishing by enabling authors, funded by the foundation, to publish with PLOS without facing APC barriers, and to contribute to open access publishing options for authors who do not have access to funding.
A revitalized brand
Our vision and mission is at the center of our new brand identity. It reflects our catalytic legacy and, at the same time, sets the stage for the next era at PLOS. Our approach to the branding process aligns with open science principles.
Diverse stakeholders were consulted throughout the process, and we took a “less is more” approach to every element of the creative. The result is a new tagline, a fresh look, and a confident voice—all designed to support our mission to drive open science forward.
Aligned
An important part of this new approach is aligning our journal brands. By unifying our journal logos under one consistent design, it is clear that each publication is part of the PLOS portfolio—a trusted, innovative, and collaborative force in the global research community.
Integrated
The refreshed visual identity is fresh, bold, and confident. At the same time, the simple, clean lines are welcoming and approachable giving the message and, importantly, the research we publish center stage.
Confident
Our new tagline is a clarion call for our mission statement. “A catalyst for better” is both a mandate and an invitation. A mandate for everyone at PLOS to energize around our single-minded purpose. An invitation for the community to mobilise around solutions that make science open for all.
Fresh
The refined logo mark icon serves as a continuity element across all PLOS brands and touchpoints. The trailblazers are punctuated with points of impact, representing our catalytic legacy. The color palette has been simplified. Our new tone of voice is designed to be clear and straight talking.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top