M.2 slot roulette: Choosing the right SSD slot for optimal performance
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
M.2 slot roulette still exists on many modern motherboards, so make sure you use the right one
By
Rich Edmonds
Published 16 hours ago
Richard is the PC Hardware Lead at XDA and has been covering the technology industry for almost two decades. He's been building PCs since young, and when not creating content, you can often find him inside a chassis somewhere.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Although your life doesn't necessarily depend on it, the
M.2 slot roulette is real, and you need to take note of all the available slots, ensuring you make the most of your expensive NVMe SSD. This standard has become the norm for connecting super-fast storage to your PC, be it a range-topping desktop system, portable laptop, or compact mini PC. Depending on which PCI generation you have available on the motherboard — this all boils down to your CPU and motherboard chipset — you could experience speeds up to 15,000 MB/s. The issue is that not all PCIe M.2 slots are the same, and you could end up hampering your PC's performance.
The Peripheral Component Interconnect Express (PCIe) is at the heart of most M.2 SSD slots, though you will find a few that support the slower SATA interface. Depending on the interface and the
generation of PCIe, this determines the speed at which data can be transferred between the SSD and motherboard, effectively shortening load times for games and ensuring your OS and apps boot up quicker. Although PCIe generations have evolved significantly over the years and are largely backward compatible, SATA isn't, and it's still a bad idea to use a PCIe 5.0 SSD with a PCIe 3.0 M.2 slot. This is why it's vital to understand your motherboard's SSD slots and choose the right one.
Not all M.2 slots are the same
PCIe vs. PCIe vs. SATA
An NVMe SSD won't work with a SATA M.2 slot, and a SATA SSD won't play ball with a PCIe M.2 slot. This is why they're keyed differently, which means the physical pin layouts are different. It's similar to DDR4 and DDR5 to help prevent accidental installation of the wrong component. SATA SSDs use what's known as a B-Key layout, and NVMe drives use an M-Key layout. SATA SSDs using the same M.2 slot are restricted to 550 MB/s or so, whereas PCIe allows Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe) SSDs to stretch their legs and climb well into the thousands. It's evident just how different these interfaces are, with SATA III capping at just 6 Gb/s and PCIe supporting up to 4 GB/s (not Gb/s) per available PCI lane. This is why it's important to use the right SSD with the right slot. For SATA and NVMe drives, there's a risk that you could damage the drive or motherboard. And for NVMe drives, the PCIe generation could affect how fast the SSD can run, hampering performance compared to manufacturer marketing materials. A PCIe 4.0 SSD installed in a PCIe 3.0 slot will be limited to the slower 3.0 speeds, resulting in underwhelming performance.
This is why it's important to use the right SSD with the right slot. For SATA and NVMe drives, there's a risk that you could damage the drive or motherboard.
Conversely, a PCIe 3.0 SSD in a PCIe 4.0 slot will not benefit from the faster interface.
PCIe 5.0 is the current generation of SSD storage (at the time of writing). Launching in 2019, we're still seeing a flurry of new drives launch with incredible speeds, though prices continue to play a role in many PC owners holding out and sticking to older generation hardware. Before PCIe 5.0, we had PCIe 4.0 and PCIe 3.0, which launched in 2017 and 2012, respectively. PCIe 3.0 tops out at around 3,500 MB/s, and PCIe 4.0 can achieve speeds of 7,000 MB/s. As you can see, we're effectively doubling performance with each new standard.
Where it becomes M.2 roulette
Multiple slots to choose from
Modern motherboards, even the more affordable ones, usually have more than one M.2 slot. These are often with different configurations, resulting in a size and PCIe generation mismatch. Just because a slot looks the same doesn't mean it will work well with your SSD. It has even caught me off guard a couple of times, believing I knew best about the motherboard in question, only to realize I was using a PCIe 4.0 drive with a PCIe 3.0 NVMe SSD slot. It's not the end of the world, but you're effectively hampering the performance of your SSD for no reason, especially if you have a better slot available. Motherboards will have different PCIe generation slots (or even just SATA) to cater to different use cases. A primary SSD slot may be designed for OS and game storage. Secondary M.2 slots may be geared for long-term storage and
something like a Wi-Fi card — yes, you can install Wi-Fi modules on M.2 slots. So long as the keying of the slot matches your SSD, you're usually good to go since mix-matching PCIe generations won't damage anything. Sure, your SSD will run slower and your ego shattered upon discovering this fact, but it's psosible to re-arrange SSDs to get the most from your PC.
Secondary M.2 slots may not have passive cooling for SSDs, potentially hampering performance.
Depending on the motherboard and how the PCIe slots are configured, you may even find that slots are limited depending on what's installed on the board. If you have a super-fast GPU and SSD installed, another slot may have its PCI lanes reduced, resulting in slower performance. Some slots may have fewer PCIe lanes assigned by default. This is usually discovered on a motherboard specifications page or manual, and is worth considering if you plan to use more advanced hardware with your PC. That's what this all boils down to. You should always consult your motherboard manual and official documentation. This goes for selecting the right M.2 slot for your super-fast NVMe drive, picking the right RAM for your CPU (checking the
QVL list of verified kits to ensure stability and performance), and deciding just what you can connect to the motherboard. Even if you're experienced with putting together desktop systems, not everything may be printed on the board itself. If you have just one high-speed SSD, ensure it's installed in the primary M.2 slot, which is usually kitted out with the most PCIe lanes. Also consider cooling with higher-generation NVMe drives, which require some sort of cooling to prevent throttling.
Create the ultimate PC
So long as you're aware of all the M.2 slots your motherboard supports, you shouldn't have any trouble using super-fast SSD storage. It's only when you look to use anything outside of the primary slot is when you can run into problems with either incompatibility or limited performance. Always consult your motherboard’s manual, prioritize high-speed slots for NVMe SSDs, and ensure that your hardware is properly cooled, especially for PCIe 5.0 hardware. As newer generations are developed and released, this will only continue to become more important.
Storage
SSD
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
Activepieces is a self-hosted automation suite powered by your local LLM
3 days ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
3 days ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
3 days ago
News flash: cable management isn't the nightmare it used to be
Today's best deals
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
10 hours ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
13 hours ago
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Install your games on a separate SSD - your OS will thank you
Review: Dying Light: The Beast is the true Dying Light sequel I'd been waiting for
I tried using DietPi Linux with Xfce on an old laptop and it exceeded my expectations
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.