About NPR : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
About NPR About NPR: Who We Are
About NPR
February 12, 201911:28 AM ET
Enlarge this image
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
Raquel Scoggin/NPR
NPR
Who We Are NPR is an independent, nonprofit media organization that was founded on a mission to create a more informed public. Every day, NPR connects with millions of Americans on the air, online, and in person to explore the news, ideas, and what it means to be human. Through its network of member stations, NPR makes local stories national, national stories local, and global stories personal. The mission of NPR is to collaborate with Member Stations to cultivate an informed public, fostering a deeper understanding and appreciation of events, ideas, and cultures. To achieve this, we produce, acquire, and distribute programming that upholds the highest standards of public service in journalism and cultural expression. We also advocate for our members' shared interests and provide satellite interconnection for the entire public radio system. NPR Network
The links between NPR and Member Stations are many and deep. At the core, we share a mission to inform the public, increase understanding of the world and enrich the experience of everyday life. Every day, NPR and its Member stations work together to tell the story of the whole country from everywhere in the country.
No other news organization has the same on-the-ground reach as public media. Approximately 99% of the U.S. population is within the broadcast listening area of one or more public radio stations. This network includes thousands of journalists at nearly 250 NPR Member stations across the country, in addition to the hundreds of journalists working at NPR.
LEARN MORE ABOUT THE NPR NETWORK
Supported by Listeners Our work is made possible through the support we receive from people across the country who count on and care about the news and programming we provide. Gifts of any size from our growing audience on-air and online help NPR and Member stations fulfill our shared mission.
DONATE
DOWNLOAD THE FACT SHEET
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion As Core Values At NPR, diversity is the unending pursuit of meaningful inclusion in the face of historic and present-day exclusion. It is a value that must live in all that we are and all that we do, beginning with the Board of Directors and cascading down to every corner of the enterprise. It must live in our content, hiring, audience and workplace; in our business deals, our partnerships, and our collaborations with stations across the network. Diversity is a big tent. It covers race and ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, social class, faith, age, disabilities and abilities, political persuasion and geographic location. It embraces veteran status and family structures, marital status and national origin, immigration status and educational attainment. Inclusion brings that diversity and more to bear on the work we do and makes it possible for everyone at NPR to grow and thrive.
Work with Purpose Talented professionals with an incredibly diverse array of talents and backgrounds — from audio, print, and visual journalists, to developers, designers, engineers, executives, communications specialists, IT experts, lawyers, accountants and so much more — all coming together to create, support and promote NPR's award-winning content.
Corporate Governance
Leadership
Board of Directors
Foundation Trustees
Our Financials
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor