Million Dollar Soup Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Cheeseburger Soup
Million-Dollar Chicken Casserole
Hamburger Macaroni Soup
Cheese Chicken Soup
Million-Dollar Spaghetti
10 Million-Dollar Recipes
Macaroni and Cheese Soup
Market Basket Soup
Hot Dog Soup
Million Dollar Bacon
Million Dollar Cake
Macaroni Vegetable Soup
Cream of Hamburger Soup
All-Day Soup
Big Red Soup
ABC Soup
Chicken Cheese Soup
Oodles of Noodles Soup
Mountain Man Soup
Chicken Alphabet Soup
Million Dollar Soup Recipe photo by Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesSoupsBisques
Million Dollar Soup
Million Dollar Soup Recipe photo by Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
5 | 3 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Cook: 3 hr.
By
Nancy Mock
Recipe by Nancy Mock, Southbridge, Massachusetts
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Sep. 05, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This soup stands apart with its decadent, restaurant-level flavor. Million dollar soup has a rich broth and several flavorful ingredients like bacon and caramelized onions.
There are occasions when a simple bowl of broth will do, and other times we want a soup that really knocks our socks off. Our million dollar soup recipe is the latter. It tastes like a million bucks because it’s rich and savory thanks to the combination of bacon, caramelized onions, cheddar cheese, potato gnocchi and fennel. White wine, chicken stock and heavy cream make the liquid extra-flavorful and creamy, and toasted Parmesan bread crumbs add crunch to every luxurious spoonful.
Serve million dollar soup as a special cold-weather supper or as a notch-above dish to impress your friends at the next dinner party. The soup joins the family of million dollar recipes that are worth their weight in gold!
Ingredients for Million Dollar Soup
Sweet onions: The caramelized onions in this soup begin with sliced sweet onions. Choose an onion variety like Walla Walla, Vidalia or Maui.
Bacon: When you cook bacon, it’s worth making a large batch to have some on hand for leftover bacon recipes. This soup is one of them, as we add cooked diced bacon to the pot.
Potato gnocchi: Find ready-made potato gnocchi in the pasta aisle or freezer case. They cook up in just minutes in the broth.
Shredded chicken: Using leftover cooked chicken or rotisserie chicken saves lots of time when making this hearty soup.
Kale: Chopped fresh kale packs a nutritional punch and also adds color to your million dollar soup. It simmers to a tender texture right in the soup.
Fennel: Chopped raw fennel has an anise-like flavor that mellows beautifully when sauteed. This perennial vegetable is part of the flavorful mirepoix.
Celery: This diced veggie is also part of the soup’s base. Use the rest of the ribs in celery recipes like celery gratin and cold salads.
Garlic: Use a Microplane, sharp knife or hand-held press to quickly mince garlic; then saute it for just a minute or two to mellow the sharp flavor.
Cheddar cheese: What’s a rich soup without some cheese? Our million dollar soup features shredded cheddar cheese for an extra-savory flavor, but only enough to let the rest of the soup’s flavors shine through.
Chicken broth: A high-quality boxed chicken broth brand will make a difference in this soup recipe. Or, make homemade chicken broth and stash it in the freezer to have on hand for recipes like this one.
Soy sauce: To give homemade soups a little boost of umami, editor Lesley Balla recommends a dash of soy sauce. Tomato paste and Worcestershire sauce are other umami-rich staples to keep in the pantry for soups.
Cream: Use heavy or whipping cream to create a silky broth. Warm up the cream before slowly adding it to the soup so that it won’t curdle.
White wine: The acidity of white wine helps balance the rich ingredients in this soup. Use it to deglaze the pan and release the fond to add extra flavor to the broth.
Butter: Either salted or unsalted butter is fine for this recipe. It’s used to caramelize the onions, saute the vegetables and toast the bread crumbs.
Olive oil: Because butter can easily scorch when used to saute, I use it in combination with olive oil. Both the oil and butter add flavor to the soup as well.
Spices: This opulent soup has so many flavorful ingredients that I keep the spices simple: salt, pepper, a little dried thyme and a dash of cayenne pepper.
Cornstarch: At the end of the cooking time, whisk a blend of cornstarch and cold water to act as a soup thickener and create a creamier texture.
Bread crumbs: Make a simple, crunchy topping for the soup with panko bread crumbs. They have a coarse texture and toast quickly in the oven.
Parmesan cheese: The final umami boost for this soup is Parmesan cheese baked into the panko bread crumbs.
With so many ingredients, this is an ideal recipe to practice mise en place, meaning everything in its place. Before starting the soup, have all the vegetables sliced or diced, the bacon chopped and the chicken shredded. Grate the cheddar cheese too. Have all the ingredients ready in bowls near the stove to add as the recipe directs.
Directions
Step 1: Caramelize the onions
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Heat 2 tablespoons of olive oil and 1 tablespoon of butter in a large Dutch oven or soup pot over medium-high heat. When the butter is melted, add the sliced onions. Saute the onions for four to five minutes, stirring occasionally. Add a pinch of salt. Reduce the heat to low, cover the pot and let the onions cook for 15 minutes, stirring once or twice.
Then, remove the lid and let the onions cook for another 20 minutes or so until they’re very soft and browned. Transfer the onions to a small bowl and hold them aside.
Editor’s Tip: Once the lid is off the pot, keep the stirring to a bare minimum. The best browning will occur when the onions are disturbed as little as possible.
Step 2: Make the bread crumbs
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
While the onions are cooking, preheat the oven to 350°F. Line a 15x10x1-inch baking sheet with foil or parchment. Combine the panko bread crumbs, grated Parmesan and melted butter in a small bowl, stirring until the crumbs are moistened. Spread the bread crumbs over the baking sheet and place them in the oven. Bake the crumbs for 10 to 12 minutes, stirring once, until the crumbs are golden brown. Remove them from the oven and let them cool on the baking sheet.
Step 3: Cook the aromatics
Add a tablespoon each of olive oil and butter to the pot, and heat them over medium heat. When the butter is melted, stir in the diced celery and fennel. Saute and stir the vegetables for seven to eight minutes, until they’re softened and beginning to brown. Add in the minced garlic and saute for an additional 30 to 60 seconds.
Step 4: Add more ingredients and simmer
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Pour in the white wine. As it bubbles, stir the vegetables and scrape the browned bits from the bottom for one to two minutes until mostly dissolved.
Add the caramelized onions, chicken stock, chopped kale, 3/4 cup diced bacon, soy sauce, salt, thyme and pepper to the pot. Increase the heat to bring everything to a boil. Then, reduce the heat, cover the pot and simmer the ingredients for 10 to 15 minutes.
Step 5: Add the meat and gnocchi
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Remove the lid. Stir the shredded chicken and gnocchi into the soup and simmer, uncovered, for two to three minutes or until the gnocchi floats to the top.
Step 6: Add the cheese, cream and cornstarch
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Add the shredded cheddar cheese, and stir the soup until the cheese is melted.
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Spoon a little of the hot broth into the heavy cream in a bowl to temper it.
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Then, slowly pour the cream into the soup, stirring constantly to blend it in. Stir in the cayenne pepper.
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Whisk the cornstarch and cold water together in a small bowl, then stir the mixture into the soup. Simmer the soup while stirring it for two to three minutes longer, until it thickens. Remove the pot from the heat.
Step 7: Garnish and serve
Ladle the soup into serving bowls. Top each bowl with some of the remaining diced bacon and the toasted Parmesan bread crumbs. Serve the soup while it’s hot.
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
Million Dollar Soup Variations
Add butternut squash: There are two ways to add squash: Add 1-inch cubes of butternut squash at the same time as the stock and kale to cook them during simmering, or roast cubed butternut squash for more flavor and add it to the soup near the end of the cooking time to warm it through.
Use other greens: Instead of kale, try fresh spinach or Swiss chard. These greens cook through more quickly, so add them when about five minutes of simmering time remains.
Try it with sausage: In this soup, replace the diced bacon with cooked and crumbled sausage. Use mild bulk sausage, or for more kick, try a spicy variety like chorizo or hot Italian.
How to Store Million Dollar Soup
The recipe makes a big pot of million dollar soup—but that’s OK, because the leftovers are just as delicious. To store it, first let the soup cool to room temperature. Cover the pot or transfer the soup to resealable food storage containers. Keep the soup cold in the refrigerator.
How long does million dollar soup last?
When the soup is kept chilled and tightly covered in the fridge, it will last for two to three days.
Can you freeze this million dollar soup?
Yes, there is a way to freeze million dollar soup, but it requires one change. Because cream and cheese-based soups don’t freeze well, it’s best to freeze this soup without these ingredients. Make the recipe through adding the chicken and gnocchi (you’ll add the cream and cheese later).
Let the soup cool, transfer it to freezer-proof containers and freeze it for up to three months. When you reheat it, add the cream and cheese.
How do you reheat million dollar soup?
The easiest way to reheat million dollar soup is in the microwave, which is perfect for individual portions. Ladle some soup into a microwave-safe bowl and loosely cover it. Microwave it in 45-second bursts, stirring after each time until heated through. You can also reheat the soup over medium-low heat on the stovetop. If you are reheating million dollar soup that has been frozen, the stovetop is best so that you can blend in cream and cheese at the end.
Million Dollar Soup Tips
Sarah Tramonte for taste of home
What’s the best way to cook chicken for this soup?
Using leftovers from a big roast chicken dinner or picking up an already-cooked rotisserie chicken are great timesaving options when making million dollar soup. However, you can also cook chicken specifically for this recipe. Our guide to how to cook chicken has lots of options. Try quick methods like air-frying or pressure-cooking; although baking, slow-cooking and grilling are good choices as well. Once cooked, the chicken should be pulled into shreds. You can use all-white meat or do a mix of white and dark.
What else can you serve with million dollar soup?
While this million dollar soup can certainly be considered an all-in-one meal with plenty of filling ingredients, it’s still nice to be able to offer up a few sides for your guests. This can be as simple as saltine or oyster crackers. Or, make a loaf of tangy sourdough bread to slice and spread with butter. These two-ingredient biscuits are ready in only 10 minutes and are the perfect size for dunking in the soup. You can also finely chop fresh herbs like parsley, chives or thyme to sprinkle over the soup for a little extra color and flavor.
Test Kitchen Approved
Million Dollar Soup
5 | 3 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:8 servings
Prep:20 min
Cook:3 hours
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2 tablespoons olive oil
1 tablespoon butter
2 medium sweet onions, thinly sliced
1 pinch salt
parmesan bread crumbs:
1 cup panko bread crumbs
1/2 cup grated Parmesan cheese
3 tablespoons butter, melted
soup:
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 tablespoon butter
1 cup chopped celery
1/2 cup sliced fennel bulb
3 garlic cloves, minced
1/4 cup white wine
6 cups chicken stock
3 cups chopped fresh kale
1 cup crumbled cooked bacon, divided
1 tablespoon soy sauce
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon dried thyme
1/4 teaspoon pepper
2 cups shredded cooked chicken breast
1 package (8 ounces) potato gnocchi
2-1/2 cups shredded cheddar cheese
1 cup heavy whipping cream, warmed
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
3 tablespoons cornstarch
3 tablespoons cold water
Text Ingredients
Directions
To caramelize the onions, heat olive oil and butter in a large Dutch oven or soup pot over medium-high heat. Add onions; cook 4-5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in salt. Reduce heat to low; cover. Cook until onions are soft, about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove the lid; cook another 20 minutes or until very soft and browned, stirring occasionally. Transfer to a small bowl; set aside.
Preheat oven to 350°. Line a 15x10x1-in. baking sheet with aluminum foil or parchment paper. To make the bread crumbs, in a small bowl, combine panko, Parmesan and melted butter. Spread in an even layer on the prepared baking sheet. Bake 10-12 minutes, stirring once, until golden brown. Remove; let cool.
To make the soup, add olive oil and butter to the same Dutch oven or soup pot over medium heat. Add celery and fennel; cook until softened and beginning to brown, 7-8 minutes. Add garlic; cook until fragrant, 30-60 seconds. Add white wine; bring to a simmer, scraping the browned bits up from the bottom until mostly dissolved, 1-2 minutes.
Add caramelized onions, chicken stock, kale, 3/4 cup crumbled bacon, soy sauce, salt, thyme and pepper to the pot; bring to a boil. Reduce the heat. Cover; simmer for 10-15 minutes.
Remove lid; stir in shredded chicken and gnocchi. Simmer uncovered until gnocchi floats to the top, 2-3 minutes. Stir in shredded cheese. Place cream in a small bowl; add a small amount of hot soup broth to the bowl to temper it. Slowly pour the mixture into the soup, stirring constantly. Stir in cayenne pepper.
In a small bowl, whisk together cornstarch and water. Stir into the soup; simmer until thickened, 2-3 minutes.
Ladle soup into serving bowls. Top each with remaining crumbled bacon and Parmesan bread crumbs. Serve immediately.
Nutrition Facts
1 serving: 617 calories, 41g fat (21g saturated fat), 133mg cholesterol, 1657mg sodium, 28g carbohydrate (4g sugars, 2g fiber), 33g protein.
Author
Nancy Mock
Nancy contributes writing, recipes and food photography to Taste of Home, where she covers regional eats, food history and trending dishes. Her work can also be seen on her website, Hungry Enough to Eat Six, as well as other food-focused publications. Nancy and her family live in New England and she’ll never say no to a plate of gravy-laden pouti...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Million-dollar soup tastes like a million bucks. It's got a long ingredient list, but it pays off in each decadent, flavorful and hearty spoonful. —Nancy Mock, Southbridge, Massachusetts
Recipe Creator
Community Cook
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box