Water: Books and Journals | Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Water
Get to know Springer's interdisciplinary publishing program in the field of water.
We carry books, journals and book series on topics such as hydrology & water management, water industry & water technology and water quality & water pollution. Our publications of international top authors highlight various aspects of water sciences and contain current research results. They include the journal Water Resources Management and the Water Science and Technology Library.
Subdisciplines
Hydrology and Water Resources
Springer provides engineers, students and researchers with up-to-date publications on hydrology and water management for theory and practice. While our professional literature examines water quality and water protection, research also focuses on measurement methods for the most important parameters of the water cycle as well as the fundamentals of stochastic and deterministic hydrology. Numerous practical examples illustrate the statistical evaluation and interpretation of hydrological data. Discover our publications such as the journal Water Resources Management and the book series Springer Hydrogeology.
Water Industry and Technologies
Publications focused on drinking water, water supply ...
Water Policy, Governance, and Management
Publications focussed on the planning, development, distribution and management of the optimum use of water from political, governmental, developmental and ethical aspects.
Water Quality, Pollution and Health
The books and journals in this field focus on global water pollution by pesticides, industrial production or the discharge of untreated wastewater into rivers and seas. Numerous researchers and scientists engage with this problem and provide solutions for an international and sustainable use of clean drinking water. Our range also includes journals with current articles on international water quality or the consequences of water pollution for people and the environment. Among our publications are the journal Water, Air, & Soil Pollution and the book series Springer Water.
Find our products
Visit our shop on Springer Nature Link with more than 300,000 books.
Read over ten million scientific documents on Springer Nature Link.
Join our mailing list
Get access to exclusive content, sales, promotions and events.
Be the first to hear about new book releases and journal launches.
Learn about our newest services, tools and resources.
Publish with us
Selecting the right publisher is one of the most important decisions an author will make. At Springer, we recognize that our authors are the heart of what we do and we are committed to provide the resources, support and advice you need to help you succeed.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature