Crown Castle: After a 32% Dividend Cut, This Stock Is a Buy | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Key Morningstar Metrics for Crown Castle
Economic Moat Rating
Fair Value Estimate for Crown Castle Stock
Risk and Uncertainty
Crown Castle Bulls Say
Crown Castle Bears Say
Home
Stocks
After a 32% Dividend Cut, This Stock Is a Buy
After a 32% Dividend Cut, This Stock Is a Buy
Undervalued by 25%, these shares look like a bargain.
Michael Hodel, CFA
Sep 25, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Crown Castle Inc
(CCI)
Crown Castle CCI is selling its fiber business, and we think this will benefit shareholders. The fiber assets were capital-intensive, yet fiber and small cells only generated one-third of revenue and one-fourth of operating income. After the sale, the company will be able to focus on its solid portfolio of 40,000 US towers and realize their favorable economics: minimal incremental investment needs, annual rent escalators, and a high degree of operating leverage that translates to meaningful free cash flow generation. We expect Crown Castle to deliver steady results following the fiber sale. However, the sale also brings a 32% dividend cut as the company better aligns its payout to its streamlined business. With the dividend cut behind it, a more focused future, and shares trading at a 25% discount to our fair value estimate, we think this REIT is a buy. Crown Castle appears on this month’s list of The Best REITs to Buy. It’s also one of Morningstar Chief US Market Strategist Dave Sekera’s 5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In.Crown Castle’s tower business is fantastic. Its portfolio requires minimal capital investment to drive growing cash flow. Wireless carriers lease space on towers to install antennas and other communication equipment to power their networks. Fixed annual rent escalators of roughly 3% provide a baseline for growth. On top of that, carriers regularly add new equipment to tower sites, requiring amendments that increase rent. Finally, Crown can often locate more than one carrier on a tower, providing meaningful operating leverage. If a tower requires incremental infrastructure to support new equipment, the carriers frequently agree to prepay some rent to fund this investment. Consumers’ mobile data consumption is steadily expanding, and we expect towers will continue to provide the foundation on which mobile communications networks depend. We think Crown’s plans to divest its fiber assets will benefit shareholders over the long term, as this business’ returns on invested capital have been very poor.Key Morningstar Metrics for Crown CastleFair Value Estimate: $125Star Rating: 4 StarsEconomic Moat Rating: NarrowUncertainty Rating: MediumEconomic Moat RatingCrown Castle’s narrow moat is based on switching costs and efficient scale in the tower business. With the sale of the fiber business, we expect returns on invested capital will expand sharply, averaging 11% through 2034. The tower business provides an extremely high degree of operating leverage. Costs to operate a tower—predominantly land leases on which the tower sits—are mostly fixed. For a new rival to build a competing tower location, it would have to invest significant amounts of capital to construct a tower and likely offer a significantly lower price to persuade carriers to switch locations, ultimately shrinking the return potential. Also, carriers are responsible for all costs associated with installing equipment on towers and moving equipment if they wish to switch. Crown Castle’s tower churn has averaged only 1.4% of revenue annually since 2019. Read more about Crown Castle’s moat rating.More from Morningstar The Best REITs to Buy
Fair Value Estimate for Crown Castle StockOur $125 fair value estimate implies an enterprise value/EBITDA multiple of 25 and a price/adjusted funds from operations multiple of 30, based on our 2025 estimates. Excluding the impact of the fiber divestment, we expect annual revenue growth of 5% over our 10-year forecast period. We expect Crown’s tower segment to benefit from increasing data consumption and carriers’ push to 5G deployments, paving the way for further co-locations and amendments. For the stand-alone tower business, we expect margins to improve through our forecast, demonstrating its high degree of operating leverage. Although we forecast minimal new tower construction, we account for organic same-tower revenue growth of more than 5% annually throughout our forecast, which we expect to largely fall to the bottom line. We expect capital investment to decline drastically over our forecast after the sale of the fiber business.Read more about Crown Castle’s fair value estimate.Risk and UncertaintyWe think the deal to sell the fiber business significantly reduces uncertainty for Crown Castle. The company is working through churn related to T-Mobile’s acquisition of Sprint, but all Sprint contracts should be gone by the end of 2025. Beyond that, we see minimal risk of heightened churn in the US tower business, given the concentrated market for wireless services. The expiration of land leases is another risk, but Crown owns the land beneath 30% of its towers and holds leases longer than 20 years on another 40%. Changing technology could also enhance the coverage of alternative structures, such as small cells, thereby reducing demand for wireless tower space and potentially leaving assets without alternative uses. We expect such technological changes to develop gradually, but Crown’s relatively high debt burden might cause it to prioritize debt reduction if this threat materializes. Read more about Crown Castle’s risk and uncertainty.Crown Castle Bulls SayWireless carriers’ continued rollout of 5G technology and new spectrum bands should drive organic growth for Crown through contract amendments and co-locations.Crown’s tower portfolio requires minimal capital investment, resulting in growing profitability and increased cash flow generation.With its fiber asset sale scheduled for 2026, Crown will realize an $8.5 billion cash windfall and cease throwing good money after bad, allowing it to invest in new towers or aggressively return cash to shareholders.Crown Castle Bears SayWith only a US tower business, Crown has much weaker growth prospects relative to peers American Tower and SBA.After a long cycle of fiber investment, Crown’s balance sheet is stretched, and management has no plans to reduce debt leverage. If the tower business hits a rough patch, cash flow will be needed to pay down debt rather than reward shareholders.If tower demand wanes, perhaps due to technological advancements, Crown’s assets have no significant alternative uses.
5 Stocks to Buy Before Everyone Else Piles In
Plus, stocks in the news that investors should dump.
44m 16s
Sep 22, 2025
Watch
This article was compiled by Susan Dziubinski and Sylvia Hauser. Data as of Sept. 24, 2025, unless otherwise noted.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Stocks
View All
CarMax Earnings: Magnitude of Consumers’ Unwillingness to Buy Is a Negative Surprise Lowering our fair value estimate on CarMax stock as macro headwinds hit.
David Whiston, CFA, CPA, CFE Sep 25, 2025
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy These eight undervalued financial-services stocks look attractive today.
Tori Brovet and Margaret Giles Sep 25, 2025
Marvell: Bullish Comments from CEO Bring Market Closer in Alignment With Our Thesis The comments affirmed our belief that Marvell is not going to lose artificial intelligence accelerator revenue next year.
William Kerwin, CFA Sep 25, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Michael Hodel, CFA Director
More from Author
Michael Hodel, CFA, is director of communications services equity research for Morningstar.
After a 32% Dividend Cut, This Stock Is a Buy
Michael Hodel, CFA Sep 25, 2025
AT&T: EchoStar Spectrum Purchase Comes at High Cost but Provides Strategic Benefits
Michael Hodel, CFA Aug 27, 2025
EchoStar: Chair Charlie Ergen Finally Yields, Scoring Big for Shareholders
Michael Hodel, CFA Aug 26, 2025
After Earnings, Is AT&T Stock a Buy, a Sell, or Fairly Valued?
Michael Hodel, CFA Aug 1, 2025
After Earnings, Is Verizon Stock a Buy, a Sell, or Fairly Valued?
Michael Hodel, CFA Jul 29, 2025
AT&T Earnings: Steady Progress Continues Despite Elevated Competitive Intensity
Michael Hodel, CFA Jul 23, 2025
Verizon Earnings: Punching Back Against the Competition Is a Costly Necessity
Michael Hodel, CFA Jul 21, 2025
Communications Services: Growth at Alphabet and Meta May Slow, but They Should Maintain Ad Dominance
Michael Hodel, CFA Jul 8, 2025
Americas Telecom Industry Update: Growth Slows, but Financial Performance Holds
Michael Hodel, CFA Jun 25, 2025
After Earnings, Is AT&T Stock a Buy, a Sell, or Fairly Valued?
Michael Hodel, CFA May 2, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility