PlayStation 5 Digital Edition with 1TB SSD downgraded to 825GB listed at the same price — CFI-2116 revision emerges overseas on Amazon | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
SSDs
The best SSD for the Steam Deck in 2025
SSDs
SSD Benchmarks Hierarchy 2025: We've tested over 100 different SSDs over the past few years, and here's how they stack up.
SSDs
Best SSDs 2025: From blazing-fast M.2 NVMe down to budget SATA
SSDs
Samsung 9100 Pro 8TB SSD review: Bigger, badder, and better
SSDs
Score a 4 terabyte PCIe 4.0 SSD for a mere 5 cents per gigabyte
microSD Cards
Where to buy Nintendo Switch 2 microSD Express cards 2025
HDDs
Seagate's monstrous BarraCuda 24TB hard drive on sale for only one cent per gigabyte
PC Components
Samsung’s 4TB 990 Pro drops to less than 7 cents per GB on Labor Day
SSDs
Just $539 for the gargantuan 8TB WD Black SN850X to pop in your gaming rig
SSDs
The Best SSD for the PS5 gets a massive price cut
Storage
Just in time for Prime Day, Steam's hardware survey reveals PC gamers have less free storage than ever
Xbox
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649
SSDs
Grab this 4TB WD Black SN7100 SSD at its lowest-ever Amazon price — the most power-efficient storage drive for your laptop, PlayStation 5, or PC
Console Gaming
The 2TB Xbox expansion card is massive 42% off during Amazon Prime Day — upgrade your Xbox storage for less
microSD Cards
Silicon Power launches new Hypera microSDXC Express Card for the Switch 2 — features PCIe 3.0 and UHS-I for wide compatibility
Video Games
Console Gaming
PlayStation
PlayStation 5 Digital Edition with 1TB SSD downgraded to 825GB listed at the same price — CFI-2116 revision emerges overseas on Amazon
News
By
Zhiye Liu
published
17 September 2025
Less storage for the same price doesn't sound like a good revision.
Comments (27)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Amazon Italy)
The rumors (via billbil-kun) regarding Sony's revision of the PlayStation 5 Digital Edition have been confirmed through various overseas Amazon listings. Although the new CFI-2116 revision maintains the original pricing, Sony has decreased the internal storage from 1TB to 825GB, representing a 17.5% reduction in capacity. This change further emphasizes the importance for owners to upgrade their consoles with one of the best PS5 SSDs.The PlayStation 5 has been on the market for nearly five years, during which time the console has undergone multiple hardware revisions. These modifications have varied from minor optimizations, such as improvements in heatsink design, to substantial hardware alterations, including a die shrink, culminating in the transition to the PlayStation 5 Slim models. Consequently, the most recent CFI-2116 revision feels like a regression.The original PlayStation 5, colloquially referred to now as the PlayStation 5 Fat, was equipped with 825GB of internal storage, of which approximately 650GB was accessible to the user, depending on system updates and other variables. The shift to the PlayStation 5 Slim introduced numerous enhancements, including an increase to 1TB of storage, providing the user with approximately 850GB of available space (subject to similar factors).The CFI-2116 revision, also known as "Chassis E," marks the return of the 825GB SSD, which Sony advertises on the new packaging. Consumers are losing close to 200GB, or 24%, of usable, high-speed storage with the latest revision. You could argue that 200GB isn't a lot, and that's true in a way since some AAA titles — specifically, Call of Duty: Black Ops Cold War — are pushing over 300GB of installed size. But under normal circumstances, 200GB should be enough for one or two games.Image 1 of 2(Image credit: Amazon Italy)(Image credit: Amazon Italy)The reason Sony has downgraded the internal storage in the CFI-2116 revision is unknown. If it weren't for past leaks or the Amazon listings, we wouldn't even know about the revision, since Sony hasn't officially announced it. However, given the current market situation, it's plausible that the downgrade could be a way for Sony to optimize production costs without resorting to another price hike. Sony already increased the pricing for the different PlayStation 5 models by $50 last month, citing the "challenging economic environment." This generation of gaming consoles is the first to experience price increases rather than decreases. Despite this, Sony has sold over 77 million units as of May 2025, so the company is eager to keep up the momentum. Instead of raising prices again, Sony may have decided that reducing internal storage was a better way to keep prices stable.Sony silently released the revised PlayStation 5 Digital Edition in Europe on Sept. 13. The console has already surfaced on Amazon Spain, Amazon Italy, Amazon France, and Amazon Germany. It's available for purchase at Amazon Italy and Amazon Germany for €499, which aligns with the European MSRP for the existing PlayStation 5 Digital Edition (Chassis D). Amazon Germany has set a delivery date by October 23.Initial rumors suggest that the CFI-2116 revision may be exclusive to the European market. However, it's plausible that the revised console could make its way to the U.S. market. Fortunately, the revision only affects the PlayStation 5 Digital Edition, so the disc version is safe. Nonetheless, if you're set on buying the digital edition, it might be a good time to pull the trigger, as there's no telling if or when the 1TB SKUs will disappear from the shelves to be replaced by the 825GB variant.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
You may like
The Best SSD for the PS5 gets a massive price cut
Just $539 for the gargantuan 8TB WD Black SN850X to pop in your gaming rig
Just in time for Prime Day, Steam's hardware survey reveals PC gamers have less free storage than ever
TOPICS
Sony
See all comments (27)
Zhiye LiuNews Editor, RAM Reviewer & SSD TechnicianZhiye Liu is a news editor, memory reviewer, and SSD tester at Tom’s Hardware. Although he loves everything that’s hardware, he has a soft spot for CPUs, GPUs, and RAM.
Read more
The Best SSD for the PS5 gets a massive price cut
Just $539 for the gargantuan 8TB WD Black SN850X to pop in your gaming rig
Just in time for Prime Day, Steam's hardware survey reveals PC gamers have less free storage than ever
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649
Grab this 4TB WD Black SN7100 SSD at its lowest-ever Amazon price — the most power-efficient storage drive for your laptop, PlayStation 5, or PC
The 2TB Xbox expansion card is massive 42% off during Amazon Prime Day — upgrade your Xbox storage for less
Latest in PlayStation
Windows 95 on a PlayStation 2 kind of works — but this modded PS2 couldn’t play Doom
Sony faces class action over expensive digital game and DLC prices
First reverse engineered Sony PS1 motherboard enables fixing broken systems
The 'Playstacean' is a crab-u-lous PS One mod
PlayStation 5 Pro specifications thoroughly explained, 'FLOPflation' debunked by PS5 system architect Mark Cerny
Kickstarter campaign claims its $39 AI-based PS5 add-on reduces exhaust temps by up to 9 degrees
Latest in News
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production — could use TSMC's Arizona fab to avoid tariff fallout
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan
Samsung earns Nvidia's certification for its HBM3 memory
27 Comments
Comment from the forums
Li Ken-un
825 GB is 768 GiB. NAND SSDs always have overprovisioning. But memory is also made in raw capacities of powers of two. It should be interesting to have a teardown of these new units to see how much NAND is on there.
Reply
TheyStoppedit
Shrinkflation and increasing the sticker price are the exact same thing. There is literally 0.00% difference
Reply
bit_user
Li Ken-un said:NAND SSDs always have overprovisioning.I bought a SSD for my PS5, mainly because I didn't want to wear out the soldered-down NAND chips. You can't move everything onto the SSD, but enough that it should help save the life of your system NAND.
Reply
LabRat 891
Li Ken-un said:825 GB is 768 GiB. NAND SSDs always have overprovisioning. But memory is also made in raw capacities of powers of two. It should be interesting to have a teardown of these new units to see how much NAND is on there.Kinda what I was thinking...
What capacity is actually installed vs. capacity exposed?
Are they actually including less NAND or, has overprovisioning been increased drastically?
Reply
wwenze1
Li Ken-un said:But memory is also made in raw capacities of powers of two.Nah not anymore. So don't think too much about it.
Reply
usertests
If PS6 is launching around late 2027, early 2028, I wonder how big of an SSD it can possibly get. Maybe they'll may aim for 2 TB in the base models. Games may not be increasing in size as much anymore.
Cyclical pricing trends could dictate what the next 12-15 years of gaming looks like (time to PS6 launch + time to a PS7 if it's happening + additional years of games targeting the PS6). Imagine if they pulled back from 30-32 GB of (V)RAM down to 24 GB because it's expensive at the time they finalize the design and start manufacturing.
Reply
bit_user
usertests said:Imagine if they pulled back from 30-32 GB of (V)RAM down to 24 GB because it's expensive at the time they finalize the design and start manufacturing.They usually take a hit on the first hardware rev, though. I bet we'll probably have 32 Gb GDDR7 dies, at the time, which could facilitate 32 GB.
Then again, Sony is leaning pretty hard into neural rendering and probably other AI gaming tech. Therefore, they might prioritize capacity and could do like 128 GB of LPDDR6.
One thing I definitely don't expect to see is a mere 24 GB, though.
Reply
thestryker
I'm guessing this is just Sony having NAND they needed to get rid of. They changed the NAND used between launch and later revisions.
As for the next generation of consoles I just hope that they do something about the idle power consumption. They should have options to prevent needing to power up all of the GDDR just for the standard media/OS type operations.
Reply
usertests
bit_user said:They usually take a hit on the first hardware rev, though. I bet we'll probably have 32 Gb GDDR7 dies, at the time, which could facilitate 32 GB.
Then again, Sony is leaning pretty hard into neural rendering and probably other AI gaming tech. Therefore, they might prioritize capacity and could do like 128 GB of LPDDR6.The latest MLID leak says: 160-bit GDDR7 (10 chips) at 30/40 GB. Which is the difference between using ten 24 Gb or 32 Gb GDDR7 chips.
Some of these consoles are including separate, cheaper DRAM, like the 2 GB DDR5 in PS5 Pro, and there would have to be a memory controller somewhere for that. So it would be interesting to see that pool expanded to handle both OS and AI. There is no indication of that yet. The "low" option of 30 GB GDDR7 could be enough for textures, a more compact LLM (e.g. 8 billion parameters), and other AI models (such as text-to-speech).
Reply
bit_user
thestryker said:As for the next generation of consoles I just hope that they do something about the idle power consumption. They should have options to prevent needing to power up all of the GDDR just for the standard media/OS type operations.100% agree. I bought the version with the N6 respin of the APU and it still uses like 72 W just to play some streaming video content. IIRC, it idles somewhere in the mid 50W range. If that's wrong, then it'd be on the low side of the real number! I guess I'll have to check it again.
Reply
View All 27 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.