Nvidia is giving away copies of Borderlands 4, but there is a catch
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Nvidia is giving away copies of Borderlands 4, but there is a catch
Source: Steam
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 18, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Borderlands 4 hits well, praised for its writing, gunplay, and seamless co-op; some performance complaints linger.
The retail price is $70 (not $80); Nvidia offers a free copy if you purchase GeForce Now Ultimate yearly.
GeForce Now Ultimate is $200/yr, including RTX 4080/5080 rigs on select titles; the free game claim ends on September 25.
Borderlands 4 is now out in the wild, and there's a lot to love and criticize. While people are complaining about the performance issues, it seems they're also gelling with the actual meat and potatoes of the game. In fact, our delightful sister website, GameRant, gave Gearbox's latest title a highly respectable 9/10 score, citing performance as a minor ding but praising the writing, gunplay, and seamless multiplayer experience. There was a bit of a scare where people thought Borderlands 4 would cost $80; fortunately, the actual price was a more agreeable $70. If that's still a bit dire for you, Nvidia is actually giving away copies of the game, albeit you can't just walk up and ask them for one, I'm afraid.
Nvidia is giving away copies of Borderlands 4 if you subscribe to a yearly Ultimate plan with GeForce Now
Over on the Nvidia GeForce Now subscription page (thanks, Neowin!), Nvidia has added a new incentive to get people subscribing to a yearly Ultimate plan for GeForce Now. If you've never heard of GeForce Now, it's a cloud gaming service that Nvidia provides. Subscribing to GeForce Now isn't like Xbox Game Pass, where it also unlocks games for you to play; however, you can link your PC storefronts (like Steam) and play your supported, purchased titles on them instead. There are three tiers: Basic, Performance, and Ultimate. Basic is free with ads, and is a good way to see if GeForce Now works for you. The Performance tier gives you longer play times and less of a wait to get in, and Ultimate subscribers get the cream of the crop, including an RTX 4080 rig at the very least and an RTX 5080 on select titles. Well, if that sounds good to you, then you can grab a complimentary copy of Borderlands 4 when you subscribe to the Ultimate tier for a year. I recommend giving GeForce Now a try first, as a year's worth of Ultimate costs $200. However, if you end up liking GeForce Now and want to subscribe for a year, you'll also get a $70 game for free and a souped-up rig to play it on. Sounds like a win-win to me. You only have until September 25th to claim this reward, so don't dawdle too long. And if you need help deciding, check out our review of the Nvidia GeForce Now Ultimate subscription tier.
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 17, 2025
Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
Sep 17, 2025
This free and open-source app helps me keep track of all the stuff I usually forget
Sep 16, 2025
Microsoft begins its quest to absorb every PC storefront you know and love into one app
Sep 17, 2025
Why I keep coming back to SMB for my home lab file sharing
More from our brands
Borderlands 4 post-launch roadmap and endgame content
Every Video Game Confirmed and Expected to Be $80 So Far
Having this gaming subscription feels like a secret weapon, and now it's available on Steam OS
Why Grand Theft Auto 6 Fans Shouldn't Be Breathing a Sigh of Relief Just Yet
All Borderlands 4 Editions – Which One Should You Buy?
11 Borderlands 4 beginner tips to help get you started
How to Play Borderlands 4 Early (Does Borderlands 4 Have Early Access?)
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
7 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
6 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I recommend people use these apps when moving from Windows to Linux
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
How to avoid cheap PCIe risers that cause data corruption and instability
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.