Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and 3 weeks to act | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Business
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Business
Enterprise Software
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and 3 weeks to act
Microsoft will end support for its most popular operating system next month. Here's what you should do with your Windows 10 PCs that fail Microsoft's Windows 11 compatibility tests - before that day arrives.
Written by
Ed Bott, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 10:32 a.m. PT
WillSelarep/E+/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysWindows 10 support ends on Oct. 14, 2025.Users have free and paid options for extended updates.Doing nothing is not a safe option.  Have you decided what to do with your old Windows 10 PCs when they reach their official end-of-support date in three weeks?Microsoft is not going to back down at the last minute and extend that deadline. The hardware requirements aren't going to change, either. So, if you have a laptop or desktop PC that doesn't pass the compatibility checks, Microsoft will block you from upgrading through Windows Update, and they will encourage you to buy a new PC instead.But you have other options, including some new ways to continue getting security updates for an extra year, at no cost, thanks to an announcement Microsoft made in late June. Don't procrastinate, though -- if you're responsible for one or more Windows 10 PCs that fail Microsoft's Windows 11 compatibility tests, you have five options.
Also: How to get free Windows 10 security updates through Oct. 2026Even if you and your business aren't affected by this deadline, it's likely that you have friends and family members who own older PCs that are still perfectly functional but can't be upgraded to Windows 11. They've probably been ignoring warning messages for a few months now, but those messages are going to get more insistent as the deadline approaches. You can help them out by sending them a link to this article.   1. Sign up for extended security updates Microsoft will continue developing security updates for Windows 10, but they won't be free for everyone. Extended Security Updates (ESUs) for Windows 10 will be available on a subscription basis for up to three years.Also: Consumer Reports calls Microsoft 'hypocritical' for stranding millions of Windows 10 PCsHow much are these paid-for updates going to cost? That depends.If you're an administrator at an educational institution with a deployment of Windows 10 Education edition, you're in luck. Those extended updates will cost a mere pittance: $1 per machine for the first year, $2 for the second year, and $4 for the third and final year, taking you all the way to October 2028. IT pros who manage a fleet of business PCs aren't so lucky and will need to pay dearly to stick with Windows 10. A license for the Extended Security Updates program is sold as a per-device subscription. For the first year, the cost is $61 per PC. For year two, the price doubles, and it doubles again for year three. Do the math, and the cost is staggering: a three-year ESU subscription will cost $61 + $122 + $244, for a total of $427.Also: I replaced my Microsoft account password with a passkey - and you should, tooConsumers have the option to receive security updates for one additional year after the end-of-support date, with the deadline pushing out to October 2026. The list price for that subscription is $30 a year, but you can cut the cost to zero by using Microsoft Rewards points earned by using the Bing search engine or the Windows Backup tool. (For details, see How to get Windows 10 extended security updates for free.) That's a great deal compared to what business customers have to pay, but the consumer ESU subscription is only good for one year. At the end of that year, you'll have an unsupported PC once again, so make sure you use the coming year to figure out your exit strategy.
2. Buy a new PC (or rent a virtual PC) Microsoft and its partners would like you to replace that unsupported hardware with a new PC. You might even be tempted by one of the shiny new Copilot+ PCs, with their dedicated neural processing units, or maybe a powerful gaming PC. But throwing away a perfectly good computer seems wasteful, and it's not an option if you're hanging on to Windows 10 because you have mission-critical software or an expensive hardware device that's incompatible with Windows 11. Also: I never pay full price for PCs or Macs, thanks to these 7 money-saving tricksYou also have the option to rent a new virtual PC by signing up for Windows 365, which allows you to connect remotely to your own Windows 11-powered virtual PC in Microsoft's cloud. A Windows 365 subscription works on Windows 10 and includes extended security updates for the host PC for up to three years. Windows 365 isn't cheap (plans start at $28 a month), but that option probably costs less than a new PC. For businesses, replacing a PC that is more than six years old is absolutely the correct option. Ask your CPA about depreciation deductions.
3. Upgrade your 'incompatible' hardware to Windows 11 That pesky compatibility checker might insist that you can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC to Windows 11, but there are indeed documented ways to bypass those restrictions. You just have to jump through a few technical hoops. Frankly, if you have a PC that is less than 10 years old, this is the easiest, cheapest, and most reliable option. Also: The 10 apps I can't live or work without - on Windows, Mac, and mobileYou can find all the details in this article: How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11. Here's the short version: For PCs originally designed for Windows 10 (basically anything designed in 2016 or later), you need to make one small registry edit and then ensure that your PC is configured to use Secure Boot with the Trusted Platform Module (TPM) enabled. Even an old TPM 1.2 chip will do. As many readers have confirmed via email, this process works seamlessly as long as you've got those configuration details set properly. This option will work even with PCs that are 10 years old.For older PCs originally designed for Windows 7 or Windows 8.1, you might need to use a third-party tool called Rufus to bypass installation challenges. That's especially true on PCs that use a legacy BIOS instead of UEFI firmware and for those that don't have access to a TPM. Make sure you have the most recent version of Rufus (version 4.9 or later) to keep up with Microsoft's latest compatibility checks. Those upgrade options can't save a device whose CPU lacks support for two specific instruction sets -- POPCNT and SSE 4.2. Most PCs built using Intel CPUs from 2009 or later will pass this test; AMD CPUs from 2015 or later should also be OK. As I note in this article, there is no workaround if you own one of those very old PCs that fail this test.Also: How to upgrade from Windows 11 Home to Pro - without overpayingIf you do use one of these upgrade hacks, don't be alarmed by the threatening message you might see when trying to do an unsupported upgrade: "If you proceed with installing Windows 11, your PC will no longer be supported and won't be entitled to receive updates. Damages to your PC due to lack of compatibility aren't covered under the manufacturer warranty." That's deliberately misleading language from Microsoft. As I've noted before, that warning doesn't really say that Microsoft is going to cut off your access to updates; it simply says your PC is no longer supported, and you're no longer "entitled" to those updates. That bit of legalese is a tell on Microsoft's part, disclaiming corporate responsibility without actually saying what it will do. If you don't want to mess with the registry and you're willing to do a clean install on a system that has a TPM but fails the CPU check, just use Rufus to create a bootable Windows 11 installation drive, which bypasses the compatibility checker completely. You'll need to restore your data files from a backup or from the cloud, and you'll also need to install your software from scratch, but that's no more difficult than setting up a new PC.
4. Ditch Windows completely You could keep your old hardware and replace Windows 10 with the flavor of Linux you prefer. If you've got the technical know-how and experience to manage the transition, that option is worth considering. Thanks to Google Workspace, Microsoft 365, and a million or so web-based services, you can do just about all your basic work in a web browser these days. You might not even notice what operating system is running that browser. Also: Yes, you can run Windows apps on Linux - here are my top 5 waysSwitching to Google's free ChromeOS Flex might also be possible, although the compatibility requirements for that alternative are just as likely to get in your way. I wrote about my experience here: Installing ChromeOS Flex? 5 things you need to do first to avoid headaches. As I pointed out, "If you've got an old PC or Mac and you're thinking of installing ChromeOS Flex on it, don't do anything until you check Google's official ChromeOS Flex certified models list." Pay special attention to the end-of-support date for the PC you're thinking of upgrading. It doesn't make much sense to replace Windows 10 with a release of ChromeOS Flex that's also set to end support in the next year.Also: 7 most Windows-like Linux distros - if you're ready to ditch MicrosoftSwitching to Linux or some derivative of Linux might be a good way to repurpose an old PC. For consumers and businesses with existing investments in Windows software, it might not be a realistic alternative, but it's worth considering.
5. Ignore the end-of-support deadline completely You could do nothing at all -- just continue running your unsupported operating system and hope for the best. That's a bad idea that exposes you to the very real possibility that you'll fall prey to a security exploit. Unfortunately, a lot of people are going to do just that. Some percentage of them will end up regretting their decision. I've heard from some folks who believe that being extra careful and using third-party antivirus software will protect them from harm. I wouldn't bet my business on that strategy. Also: Stop paying for antivirus software. Here's why you don't need itIf you're intent on doing so, consider installing the third-party 0patch agent to deal with any security issues that aren't addressed by Microsoft. The free 0patch personal plan includes patches for known 0-day vulnerabilities, but if you want all Windows 10 patches, or if the PC is used for business or enterprise tasks, you'll need to pay for a 0patch Pro plan at a per-PC rate of €24.95 per year -- for customers in the US, at current exchange rates, that equates to less than $2.50 a month. I wouldn't recommend that for a PC that you use for business, but if you have a device you use for casual tasks at home, you might be willing to take the risk. What does 'end of support' mean?For nearly a quarter-century, Microsoft has had a formal policy of supporting each major operating system release for 10 years. Windows 10 was released in 2015, so its 10 years are up, as expected, in 2025.The end date is right there on the Microsoft Support document that lists products retiring or reaching the end of support in 2025. Every retail edition of Windows, as well as the Enterprise and Education editions, is slated for retirement.
If you have a Windows 10 PC, it faces mandatory retirement in 2025 Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETThat schedule is defined by Microsoft's Modern Lifecycle Policy, which is documented on the Microsoft Lifecycle page: "Windows 10 will reach end of support on Oct. 14, 2025. The current version, 22H2, will be the final version of Windows 10, and all editions will remain in support with monthly security update releases through that date." In a separate support article, Microsoft reiterates that as of Oct. 14, 2025, it will no longer provide technical support or security and reliability fixes for PCs running Windows 10.Also: How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for freeWhen a Windows version reaches its end-of-support date, the software keeps working, but Windows Update stops delivering security and reliability fixes:[There] will be no new security updates, non-security updates, or assisted support. Customers are encouraged to migrate to the latest version of the product or service. Paid programs may be available for applicable products.That part in the middle sounds encouraging, doesn't it? "Customers are encouraged to migrate to the latest version of the product or service." Unfortunately, that's not a supported option for customers running Windows 10 on hardware that doesn't meet the stringent hardware compatibility requirements of Windows 11. If you try to upgrade one of those PCs to Windows 11, you'll encounter an error message.And then you'll have to choose one of the five options above.Windows
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PC
40+ Windows keyboard shortcuts that effectively improved my work productivity
Yes, you can run Windows apps on Linux
- here are my top 5 ways
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PC
40+ Windows keyboard shortcuts that effectively improved my work productivity
Yes, you can run Windows apps on Linux
- here are my top 5 ways
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Microsoft finally squashed this major Windows 11 24H2 bug - one year later
How to get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026
Windows 11 upgrade failed? These are my 4 most powerful troubleshooting secrets
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use