CNN Weekly News Quiz: September 12, 2025 - CNN
Advertisement
CNN
Games
5 Things Weekly News Quiz
JIJI Press/AFP/Getty Images
Ahn Young-joon/AP
Spencer Platt/Getty Images
Weekly News Quiz: September 12, 2025
By Alexandra Banner and James Grant
A viral toy. A celestial event. A hefty jackpot. What do you remember from the week that was?
Keep up with the news you need. Sign up for the 5 Things newsletter.
Charlie Kirk, a prominent conservative political activist, was fatally shot this week. Where did the shooting occur?
Trent Nelson/The Salt Lake Tribune/Reuters
Idaho
Montana
Nevada
Utah
Charlie Kirk was killed at an event at Utah Valley University. He was 31 years old.
Which tech giant unveiled major product upgrades this week?
Nic Coury/AFP/Getty Images
Apple
Google
Meta
Microsoft
Apple revealed the first major redesign of the iPhone in years on Tuesday with the launch of a new, thinner model called the iPhone Air. It was one of several product upgrades unveiled at the company’s annual hardware event.
Which of the following generated a massive “shock wave” in Mexico City?
Valentina Alpide/AFP/Getty Images
Fireworks factory accident
Gas truck explosion
Earthquake
Building collapse
A gas truck explosion in Mexico City on Wednesday killed several people and left dozens injured. The blast also damaged more than 30 nearby vehicles, the Mexico City Prosecutor’s Office said.
Which of the following sparked widespread frustration in South Korea this week?
Ahn Young-joon/AP
US tariffs on Korean electronics
Detention of South Korean workers in an ICE raid
Cancellation of a major US–Korea trade deal
Travel ban on South Korean citizens
Immigration authorities recently detained more than 300 South Korean workers in Georgia. News of the detentions triggered backlash in South Korea, a longstanding US ally that earlier this year pledged to invest hundreds of billions of dollars in the American economy.
Which celestial event recently caused the moon to appear a deep reddish color?
JIJI Press/AFP/Getty Images
Coronal aurora
Meteor shower
Total lunar eclipse
Supernova
A lunar eclipse was visible Sunday across Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, as the moon passed through Earth’s shadow. During this alignment, sunlight bending around Earth cast red wavelengths onto the moon, creating what is known as a “blood moon.”
Which country has been rocked by deadly protests, led primarily by young people against a social media ban?
Prakash Timalsina/AP
Thailand
India
Pakistan
Nepal
Nepal's prime minister resigned after dozens of people were killed and hundreds were injured during youth-led protests this week.
Which viral toy is being counterfeited and sold in large quantities, both domestically and internationally?
Go Nakamura/Reuters
Furby
Tamagotchi
Labubu
Polly Pocket
Labubu dolls are the must-have toys of the year ... but so are the fakes. Chinese authorities have removed more than 1.8 million counterfeit Labubus from the market.
Which two states recently sold winning tickets for the nearly $1.8 billion Powerball jackpot?
Spencer Platt/Getty Images
Missouri and Texas
California and New York
Florida and Illinois
Ohio and Pennsylvania
Two Powerball tickets sold in Missouri and Texas won the nearly $1.8 billion jackpot, ending a streak of 42 consecutive drawings with no one claiming the prize.
Which tech CEO was offered a historic pay package potentially worth $1 trillion?
Jose Luis Magana/AP
Tesla’s Elon Musk
Apple’s Tim Cook
Google’s Sundar Pichai
Meta’s Mark Zuckerberg
Tesla’s board of directors has agreed to offer CEO Elon Musk a pay package worth $1 trillion.
Which tennis player recently won his second US Open title?
Kevin Lamarque/Reuters
Novak Djokovic
Carlos Alcaraz
Jannik Sinner
Rafael Nadal
Carlos Alcaraz won his second US Open title, defeating Jannik Sinner in four sets.
Link Copied!
What do you think of this week’s quiz? What do you want to see in future quizzes? Whether you are a 5 Things quiz superfan or taking your first one, we want to hear your ideas.
Submit
Keep up with the news you need. Sign up for the 5 Things newsletter.
Play more games
Test your knowledge with our free collection of games and puzzles—right here on CNN.
More games
Why the dinner party is a declining art
Have you heard about ‘Have I Got News for You’ season 2?
CNN’s audience shares its thoughts on tariffs
Search
Follow
CNN
Terms of
Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility & CC
AdChoices
About Us
CNN Store
Newsletters
Transcripts
License Footage
CNN Newsource
Sitemap
© 2025 Cable News Network.A Warner Bros. Discovery Company.All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.