Best Satellite Internet Providers for July 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Best Satellite Internet Providers for July 2025
Satellite internet may not be the fastest broadband connection type, but it has extensive coverage nationwide. Here are the details on the top providers.
Article updated on July 13, 2025 at 3:30 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Trey Paul
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Trey Paul Former Senior Editor Trey Paul was a CNET senior editor covering broadband. His 20+ years of experience as a writer and editor include time at the broadband marketplace Allconnect, as well as working with clients like Yahoo!, Google, The New York Times and Choice Hotels. An avid movie fan, Trey's career includes being a film and TV critic while pursuing a degree in New York. Expertise Home internet and broadband, including plans, providers, internet speeds and connection types. Movies and film studies. Credentials Master's degree in Cinema Studies from NYU and interviews with Conan O'Brien, Stan Lee and some of his biggest Star Trek childhood idols
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
34353637383940+ Reviews 344345346347348349350400+ Cities/States
Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links.
Our picks
90001
Edit ZIP code
Why we chose these providers
Sort by
Best potential among satellite internet
20 - 250 Mbps $90 - $120 per month
Check with Starlink
Provider not available in
90001
Edit ZIP code
Or call to learn more:
(866) 671-3650
Best satellite internet for reliable speeds
50-100 Mbps $50 - $80 per month
Check with Hughesnet
Provider not available in
90001
Edit ZIP code
Or call to learn more:
(833) 347-4265
Best satellite internet for versatility of plans
12 - 150 Mbps $70 - $300 per month
Check with Viasat
Provider not available in
90001
Edit ZIP code
Or call to learn more:
(866) 671-3650
BROADBAND DEALS OF THE WEEK
T-Mobile: 5G Home Internet With AutoPay and a Phone Line:  $35 (save $20) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Satellite Internet Providers for July 2025
What is the best satellite internet provider?
Satellite internet provider comparison
Best satellite internet service providers
How we test satellite internet providers
How to choose a satellite internet provider
What's next for satellite internet providers?
Are there any alternative connection types besides satellite internet?
Satellite internet FAQs
Satellite internet is the only internet connection type with nearly 100% availability across the US. In rural areas, it can be an essential lifeline for internet connectivity. Why is it so available? The main reason is how satellite internet works: It's a fixed wireless connection that links a home modem to a satellite in space. All you need is your satellite dish and a clear sky view. It's a solid alternative for people without access to wired options like DSL, cable or fiber internet. Though satellite internet doesn't match the speed capabilities of fiber or cable internet, it plays a key role in internet access. In most cases, your options for satellite internet in the US will come down to one of three providers: Starlink, Hughesnet or Viasat. So, which is best?What is the best satellite internet provider?Starlink boasts the greatest potential, Hughesnet features the most reliable speeds and affordable prices, and Viasat's unlimited data plan could attract customers.We've carefully examined the available options, considering speeds, pricing, customer service and overall value to assemble your top internet options. Here's a look at how the best satellite internet providers compare. Read more: Could 5G Home Internet Be the Answer to Your Broadband Needs?Satellite internet provider comparisonPlease note that the plans below show each provider's cheapest available tier. The max speed is the top advertised speed for that given plan, but it might not be available in your area. Overall, the best selection for you -- and the most cost-effective plan -- might be a different tier that provides a faster speed at a higher price but a better value. To better understand this value-based approach, check out CNET's guide to examining the cost per Mbps.
ProviderSpeed rangeStarting monthly costRegular monthly costContractMonthly equipment costsData capCNET review score
Hughesnet Read full review 50-100Mbps download, 5Mbps upload$50-$95 $75-$1202 years$15-$20 a month or $300-$450 one-time purchaseUnlimited,100-200GB (soft cap)6 Starlink Read full review 25-220Mbps download, 5-25Mbps upload$120; $65-$540 (Priority); $50-$2,150 (Mobile)$120; $65-$540 (Priority); $50-$2,150 (Mobile)None$349 one-time purchase for Standard ($599-$1,499 for Priority)Unlimited, 50GB-2TB6.5 Viasat Read full review 25-150Mbps download, 3Mbps upload$100-$150 (varies by location)$100-$150 (varies by location)None$15 or $250 one-time purchaseUnlimited, 850GB (soft cap)6.1
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data. Locating local internet providers
Best satellite internet service providers
Connection
Satellite Speed range
20 - 250
MbpsPrice range
$90 - $120
per month
Starlink
Best potential among satellite internet Our take - When billionaire Elon Musk isn't garnering headlines for his tumultuous actions, he's making noteworthy progress with his company SpaceX's Starlink satellite internet project.
Read full review
Or call to learn more:
(866) 671-3650
Check with Starlink
Compare
Connection
Satellite Speed range
20 - 250
MbpsPrice range
$90 - $120
per month
Pros and Cons
Pros
Decent speeds for a rural connection
Low latency
Unlimited data
Mobile internet available
Cons
High upfront costs
Slower than cable or fiber internet
Vulnerable to inclement weather
First, at 25Mbps to 220Mbps, the maximum download speeds are higher than Hughesnet's and Viasat's. Starlink also features a lower latency of between 25 and 60 milliseconds, compared with Hughesnet's and Viasat's more typical range of 450ms to 700ms. Latency could be even lower in the near future as the company works on reducing it to a stable 20ms. According to Ookla speed test data from earlier this year, Starlink is showing significant progress. "The fact that Starlink's median download speeds nearly doubled from Q3 2022 to Q1 2025 is definitely a notable and impressive development," said Sue Marek, editorial director at Ookla. (Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.)
Second, Starlink began with only two satellite internet plans: Starlink Standard and Starlink Priority. The Priority plan, which starts at $120 monthly, offers a pool of priority data that may result in faster speeds than Standard data. The Priority plan was recently rebranded as a "Fixed Site" business plan, but residential customers can still take advantage of its priority data plans.
Lastly, paying for equipment can get pretty steep. Standard customers can expect a $349 equipment fee. This is also the case for mobile customers, but hardware can reach upward of $1,499 for Priority customers. Whichever plan you choose, the equipment fees are higher than those of Hughesnet or Viasat. On the other hand, Starlink doesn't require a two-year contract. Once you consider the decent upload speed, these are considerable upgrades for anyone who has to turn to satellite internet. Those facts could undoubtedly change as Starlink continues to grow, but they're intriguing aspects of the pitch that could help set Starlink apart from the competition.
Key Info
No term contract
1TB data limit
low latency
Compare
Check with Starlink
Show more details
Show more details
Compare Starlink internet plans and prices
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details Standard $12025-100Mbps download, 5-20Mbps uploadsStandard unlimited data, $349 upfront equipment fee and no contractsPriority $65-$54040-220Mbps downloads, 8-25Mbps uploads40GB-2TB data caps (standard unlimited data thereafter), $599-$1,499 upfront equipment fee and no contractsMobile
$50-$1655-50Mbps downloads, 5-25Mbps uploadsStandard unlimited data, $349 upfront equipment fee or ($499 for the Starlink Mini) and no contractsMobile Priority
$250-$2,15040-220Mbps downloads, 8-25Mbps uploads50GB-5TB data caps (standard unlimited data thereafter), $1,499 upfront equipment fee and no contracts
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.
Connection
Satellite Speed range
50-100
MbpsPrice range
$50 - $80
per month
Hughesnet
Best satellite internet for reliable speeds Our take - Hughesnet's plans score strong points for its download speeds and consistency. Customers have seen speeds of up to 100Mbps ever since Hughesnet launched its Jupiter 3 satellite into orbit in 2023. On top of that, Hughesnet is available to customers in the most remote areas. Moreover, a Federal Communications Commission report on broadband in 2018 (the last time Hughesnet participated in the FCC study) noted that Hughesnet fared best among all participating providers for delivering actual median download speed at 150% or higher of the advertised speed.
Read full review
Or call to learn more:
(833) 347-4265
Check with Hughesnet
Compare
Connection
Satellite Speed range
50-100
MbpsPrice range
$50 - $80
per month
Pros and Cons
Pros Reliable, consistent broadband speeds in all service areasHughesNet Bonus Zone provides an extra 50GB of data a month during off hoursNo hard data caps
Cons Two-year contract, with early termination fees if you cancelUnlimited data is misleading -- Hughesnet will impose severe speed reductions once you hit your data plan's thresholdHigh equipment costs
Things to consider: While Hughesnet touts unlimited data for all plans, you can expect a soft cap of 100GB to 200GB. Once you hit your monthly data allowance, your speeds will be reduced to 1 to 3 megabits per second. Hughesnet also came up short in the 2023 J.D. Power's US Residential Internet Service Provider Satisfaction Study, landing in last place in its South region for overall customer satisfaction. Neither Starlink, Viasat or Hughesnet placed in the most recent J.D. Power Residential Internet Service Provider Satisfaction Study.
Key Info
Unlimited standard data
nationwide availability
Compare
Check with Hughesnet
Show more details
Show more details
Compare Hughesnet internet plans and prices
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details Select Plan $50 ($75 after 12 months)50Mbps download, 5Mbps uploadUnlimited data (100GB soft cap), $15 monthly equipment or $300 upfront and 2 year-contractElite Plan $65 ($90 after 12 months)100Mbps download, 5Mbps uploadUnlimited data (200GB soft cap), $15 monthly equipment or $300 upfront and 2-year contractFusion Plan $95 ($120 after 12 months)100Mbps download, 5Mbps uploadUnlimited data (200GB soft cap),
$20 monthly equipment or $450 upfront and 2-year contract
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.
Connection
Satellite Speed range
12 - 150
MbpsPrice range
$70 - $300
per month
Viasat
Best satellite internet for versatility of plans Our take - Viasat's Unleashed all-in-one plan is changing how customers experience its services. The plan is simple and straightforward and it is quite a change from the provider's previous approach. The price will vary depending on your location, but you can expect a fixed monthly rate between $100 and $150 and it can deliver speeds up to 150Mbps. Viasat introduced this plan early in March 2024, which features no annual term agreements. Only new Viasat customers in certain locations can be eligible for the no-contract plan. Check your location for serviceability.
Read full review
Or call to learn more:
(866) 671-3650
Check with Viasat
Compare
Connection
Satellite Speed range
12 - 150
MbpsPrice range
$70 - $300
per month
Pros and Cons
Pros Great availability in rural areas
Max speeds faster than most rural providers
No data overage fees
Viasat continues to improve top download speeds
Cons High prices that increase after just three months
Speeds no better than 12Mbps in some areas
High latency and service disruptions are common with satellite internet
While Viasat touts an unlimited data plan, customers exceeding 850GB of data within 30 days may expect slower speeds. Viasat's new plan also adds $15 to your monthly bill for leasing equipment, but you can purchase the equipment for $250 upfront. Finally, installation will cost you up to $500, or it can be free for certain addresses.
Key Info
No hard data cap
nationwide availability
Compare
Check with Viasat
Show more details
Show more details
Compare Viasat internet plans and prices
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details
Viasat Unleashed Read full review $100-$150 (varies by location)150Mbps, 3Mbps uploadUnlimited data (850GB soft cap), $15 monthly equipment or $250 upfront, and no contracts
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
How we test satellite internet providers Internet service providers are numerous and regional. Unlike the latest smartphone, laptop, router or kitchen tool, it’s impractical to personally test every ISP in a given city. What’s our approach? We start by researching the pricing, availability and speed information, drawing on our own historical ISP data, the provider sites and mapping information from the Federal Communications Commission at FCC.gov.It doesn't end there: We go to the FCC's website to check our data and ensure we consider every ISP that provides service in an area. We also input local addresses on provider websites to find specific options for residents. We look at sources, including the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, to evaluate how happy customers are with an ISP's service. As ISP plans and prices are subject to frequent changes, all information provided is accurate as of publication.Once we have this localized information, we ask three main questions:Does the provider offer access to reasonably fast internet speeds?Do customers get decent value for what they’re paying?Are customers happy with their service?The answer to those questions is often layered and complex, but the providers who come closest to “yes” on all three are the ones we recommend.To explore our process in more depth, visit our how we test ISPs page.How to choose a satellite internet providerFinding the right ISP for your household is not easy. This is especially true if you live in an underserved portion of the US. We recommend carefully considering your household's activities so you can better determine the download and upload speeds necessary to meet your needs. With that knowledge, you can better tackle plan pricing that will fit your budget and broadband demands. Finding the right internet plan for your household doesn't have to be complicated; check out CNET's 10 tips to help you get the most out of your internet service.What's next for satellite internet providers?Stay tuned for the latest developments with Starlink as it continues to exceed expectations for satellite internet and outpaces the likes of Hughesnet and Viasat. In 2024, SpaceX rolled out the Starlink Mini, a satellite dish best suited for customers on the go. This product is an all-in-one mini satellite dish and router. Musk conducted a speed test that showed download speeds of up to 100Mbps and 11.5Mbps in uploads for the Starlink Mini, which is pretty fast for a mobile satellite internet connection. Reducing latency for customers nationwide has also been a big focus for Starlink, allowing for better videoconferencing, gaming and live streaming -- tasks previously difficult with slower speeds from competing satellite internet providers.According to Ookla's Q1 2024 speed test report, Starlink's median download speed in the US was 64.54Mbps, which was a 13Mbps increase from the previous report. Viasat was in distant second place with 34.72Mbps download speeds and Hughesnet was in the rear at 15.87Mbps. Ookla's report mentions that Starlink subscribers highly recommend the service and are happy with its internet connectivity. It’s safe to say that expectations of how satellite internet can perform are beginning to change. (Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.)It should also be mentioned that further satellite internet competition will soon come from another multibillionaire, Jeff Bezos, as Amazon's Project Kuiper plans to enter the field. While nowhere near the stage that Starlink has achieved thus far, Project Kuiper's first rocket launch took place in late April, and the service is expected to be available for residential use in the latter half of 2025. Innovations from low-Earth-orbit satellites will be just one piece of the puzzle of better delivering the internet to the millions of households still unable to find a reliable broadband source. We'll keep this post updated as your options (hopefully) improve. Are there any alternative connection types besides satellite internet?Yes. Many broadband connection options may offer faster (and possibly cheaper) service than satellite internet.CableCable internet provides connection through the same cables (often a hybrid fiber and copper line) that providers use to provide TV services. It's more reliable than satellite internet and offers faster download speeds. Most of the time, cable internet is bundled with TV to lure consumers into buying higher-priced packages. Companies like Cox, Spectrum and Xfinity offer cable internet. DSL DSL, or digital subscriber line, uses telephone lines to connect users. Companies like AT&T, CenturyLink and Frontier offer DSL Internet. The good news is those copper lines are prevalent across the country. The not-so-good news is that download speeds typically fall short of what cable internet offers and usually fall short of FCC broadband standards. In some cases, your speeds might even be slower than satellite internet.Fixed wireless/5G home internet5G home internet and fixed wireless go hand-in-hand: 5G home internet services are fixed wireless internet services. Not all fixed wireless services are 5G home internet offerings. Are you confused yet? Fixed wireless service means the connection between your provider and your home is not wired. That fixed wireless connection can come via cellular networks (including 3G, 4G, 4G LTE and 5G) and by satellite. Fixed wireless networks tend to be slower and more laggy than wired connections. The promise of 5G home internet -- from Starry, T-Mobile 5G Home Internet and Verizon 5G Home Internet -- is speeds that compare favorably to cable connections.FiberFiber internet is the gold standard of the broadband world. Often referred to as "future proof," fiber internet offers some of the fastest plans available and features symmetrical download and upload speeds. It's more reliable than cable and is less prone to being affected by peak usage times or congestion. The only drawback is the expense and difficulty of creating a fiber network: rural customers are not likely to get fiber installed in their homes, as most fiber internet providers concentrate their efforts around major cities. Companies like AT&T, Google Fiber and Verizon Fios offer fiber-optic internet. To find out more about this connection, read our fiber connectivity explainer. Mobile hotspotsMobile hotspots also use cellular networks, similar to fixed wireless internet, but they are not "fixed." You can use a hotspot at multiple locations and they aren't dependent on your home address. Despite the wide range of options available, each connection type varies in terms of availability, pricing and speeds. Make sure to research and compare the different options to ensure you choose the one that best meets your needs and budget.Satellite internet FAQs
Is satellite internet reliable?
Satellite internet is a reasonably reliable internet connection option for rural or less urbanized areas. It may come with slower speeds than cable and fiber internet providers, but it doesn’t rely on underground wiring like other connection types, which makes it accessible to more locations. On the flip side, bad weather can cause outages or spotty connections to a greater degree than other modes of broadband.
Show more
Who is satellite internet best for?
If you live in a remote or rural location, satellite internet may be your best (and possibly only) option for connection. It is the one type of broadband available to people in the rural areas of all 50 states, making it a solid option when other types of connectivity are unavailable.
Show more
How much does satellite internet cost?
The price of satellite internet can fluctuate based on your location. If you're in an area where providers are still developing, the price might be higher for connectivity. For Hughesnet, Viasat and Starlink, prices range from $50 to $2,150. In some cases, like Starlink, the monthly price can also vary based on whether you're in a high-demand or low-demand area. We recommend inputting your address on various providers' websites to determine which will offer you the best value at your location.
Show more
How fast is satellite internet?
It depends on your internet provider and your plan. Starlink boasts the fastest speeds out of Hughesnet and Viasat. However, even with speeds topping out at 220Mbps, it's still no match to what cable or fiber offers. Fiber ISPs like Ziply Fiber and AT&T offer multi-gig plans that reach up to 10 and 5 gigabits, respectively. Most cable providers like Spectrum and Xfinity offer gigabit plans. At present, satellite connections don't match those speeds. In addition, cable and fiber are far more reliable than satellite.
Is Starlink better than Viasat?
Potentially, yes. If you're a current user of Starlink internet service, you're experiencing a broadband connection with higher maximum download and upload speeds than Viasat (220Mbps/25Mbps compared with 150Mbps/3Mbps). Starlink also has lower latency than Viasat (25 to 60ms versus 450 to 700ms), making gaming and other online activities that require fast response times much more feasible on Starlink than Viasat. Latency is expected to be lower in the near future as the company aims to reduce latency to a stable 20ms.Starlink also removed its waitlist throughout the country, as shown in its coverage map. Potential customers can now access their products without waiting several months to receive their orders. Pricing will depend on your chosen plan and address, but Viasat is cheaper than Starlink. Viasat customers can expect to pay anywhere between $100 to $150 monthly versus $140 to $1,500 (Priority) and $150 to $5,000 (Mobile) at Starlink. Suppose you're in a rural or underserved area with few options for internet connectivity. In that case, Viasat can get you connected and may be a cheaper alternative, whereas Starlink could be an option down the road.
Show more
Do all satellite internet providers have data caps?
Technically, Hughesnet and Viasat do not. Each claims to offer "unlimited data" because neither charges overage fees, but each has a set data limit for its plans. If you hit that data limit before your monthly billing cycle ends, there won't be monetary penalties, but you will experience much slower, throttled speeds for the remainder of that month. Your data may not be capped, but I would call that practice a limitation. Starlink offers truly unlimited data to its standard users. That significant advantage over its competitors changed for some customers in April 2023 when Starlink introduced its own data cap for priority users. The limit is a sizable 2 terabytes of data per month (well above the data limits of Hughesnet and Viasat), but it's still a significant change from unlimited data. You can access more data if you upgrade to the Mobile Priority plan, but that's going to cost you anywhere between $250 and $5,000 a month.
Show more
Is Starlink faster than Hughesnet?
Yes. Starlink customers can expect download speeds from 5Mbps to 220Mbps. CNET's John Kim tested the service and experienced average download speeds of around 78Mbps; Ookla clocked its median download speed in early 2023 at 65Mbps. (Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis)Hughesnet, which relies on satellites in a much higher orbit than Starlink uses -- which means data takes a little longer to travel back and forth -- offers plans with maximum download speeds of 100Mbps. That's not as fast as Viasat's unleashed plan with speeds of up to 150Mbps, but both are no match for Starlink.
Show more
Are Telesat or OneWeb worth considering?
Although both are satellite internet service providers, Telesat is a Canadian-owned company, and OneWeb is made for those in the UK. Telesat and OneWeb aren't options for US residents.
Show more
What is the best satellite internet for streaming?
Since streaming videos requires more bandwidth, the best satellite internet for streaming must have a high enough download speed to support the action. We recommend Starlink for streaming since the maximum download speeds are higher than Hughesnet and Viasat’s.
Show more
What is the best satellite internet for gaming?
With gaming, you'll want a provider with lower latency. That means a shorter delay in your data getting to the game's server and back -- less lag. Hughesnet and Viasat admit their services are not great for gaming, but Starlink boasts of lower lag (due to the lower orbit of its satellites) and says gamers can successfully use its service. CNET's own John Kim tried gaming using Starlink's service and was pleasantly surprised.
Show more
Is satellite internet affected by weather?
Regular weather, like sunny, cloudy or rainy skies, shouldn’t impact your internet. Heavy thunderstorms or snow may cause interference with your signal and cause slower speeds or a temporary loss of connection. Even if the weather is fine at your location, it might not be where the satellite is located. Your internet service should return to normal as soon as the weather passes. To learn more, read our guide on how to weather-proof your internet.
Show more
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.