Storylines Archive | TechCrunch
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
LatestStartupsVentureAppleSecurityAIAppsDisrupt 2025
EventsPodcastsNewsletters
SearchSubmit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
Latest
AI
Amazon
Apps
Biotech & Health
Climate
Cloud Computing
Commerce
Crypto
Enterprise
EVs
Fintech
Fundraising
Gadgets
Gaming
Google
Government & Policy
Hardware
Instagram
Layoffs
Media & Entertainment
Meta
Microsoft
Privacy
Robotics
Security
Social
Space
Startups
TikTok
Transportation
Venture
More from TechCrunch
Staff
Events
Startup Battlefield
StrictlyVC
Newsletters
Podcasts
Videos
Partner Content
TechCrunch Brand Studio
Crunchboard
Contact Us
Storylines
Follow along as TechCrunch covers the latest breaking news and brings together all of our reporting around recurring topics in one easy-to-read format.
Apps
WWDC 2025 live updates: iOS 26, Liquid Glass, Apple Intelligence updates, and everything else revealed
It’s finally time for WWDC 2025, Apple’s biggest developer conference of the year. It’s also a chance for Apple to notch a win.
There’s considerable pressure on the company to build on its promises and to make amends to developers as it lags behind in AI and faces continued legal challenges over its App Store.
WWDC begins Monday and ends Wednesday, but the main event is the keynote, which kicks off the conference at 10 a.m. PT.
We’re expecting tons of reveals, so stick with us to get the latest from Apple’s big show.
29 Stories
June 8, 2025 – June 8, 2025
More
Enterprise
Google I/O 2025 live coverage: Google AI Ultra, Project Mariner, Gemini app updates, and more
Google I/O, Google’s biggest developer conference of the year, is here.
I/O will showcase product announcements from across Google’s portfolio. We’re looking forward to plenty of news relating to Android, Chrome, Google Search, YouTube, and — of course — Google’s AI-powered chatbot, Gemini.
Stick with us all day as we bring you the latest news from this year’s conference.
62 Stories
May 20, 2025 – May 20, 2025
More
Transportation
Tesla earnings wrap up: Elon Musk talks DOGE, Trump and tariffs, robotaxis, AI, and cheap EVs
Tesla earnings day is here, and boy oh boy, this one could be a doozy. In the past several months, one of the world’s largest EV makers has seen its market share fall. That’s partly because of increased competition in China, Europe, and North America. But it’s also due to CEO Elon Musk’s political alignment with President Trump and his activities under DOGE to slash federal jobs and insert his supporters into positions of power.
People have expressed their opposition to Musk and Trump through the Tesla Takedown protest movement; others have sold their Tesla vehicles and stock. Those actions are beginning to take a toll.
Tesla, and more specifically Musk, have tried to focus the conversation on the future — namely the promise of AI. Will it work? We’ll find out.
27 Stories
April 22, 2025 – April 22, 2025
More
AI
Nvidia GTC 2025 live updates: Blackwell Ultra, GM partnerships, and two ‘personal AI supercomputers’
GTC, Nvidia’s biggest conference of the year, starts this week in San Jose. We’re on the ground covering all the major developments. CEO Jensen Huang will give a keynote address focusing on — what else? — AI and accelerating computing technologies, according to Nvidia.
We’re expecting Huang to reveal more about Nvidia’s next flagship GPU series, Blackwell Ultra, and the next-gen Rubin chip architecture. Also likely on the agenda: automotive, robotics, and lots and lots of AI updates.
33 Stories
March 17, 2025 – March 20, 2025
More
AI
SXSW 2025 live coverage: Health tips from Bryan Johnson, concerns about Elon Musk, and what it’s like to actually ride a Waymo Uber on the conference’s final day
TechCrunch will be on the ground at SXSW 2025 — the annual tech, music, comedy, and film conference that kicked off Friday in Austin — in search of the zeitgeist of this AI-centric era.
The tech portion of the annual event kicked off Friday and will run through March 13.
The conference begins with several tracks that fall squarely in TechCrunch’s area of interest, including the creator economy, culture, startups, health and medtech, and energy.
36 Stories
March 7, 2025 – March 14, 2025
More
Enterprise
Alphabet earnings live updates: AI, Gemini 2.0, Google Cloud, and more
Alphabet’s fourth-quarter earnings day is here, with numbers expected to be released after the markets close Tuesday. This will be followed by an earnings call at roughly 4:30 p.m. ET. The stock has been riding high over the past month as investors grew bullish over Google’s AI investment. But has DeepSeek had an impact?
Follow our live updates before, during, and after the earnings drop for all the latest insights and news Google’s parent company, Alphabet.
12 Stories
February 4, 2025 – February 4, 2025
More
Transportation
Tesla earnings live updates: Promising ‘return to growth’ and cheaper cars
Tesla’s
fourth-quarter and full-year earnings day is here — a highly anticipated report that is expected to be released after market close Wednesday. Tesla management, which will likely include CEO Elon Musk, will hold an earnings call at 5:30 p.m. ET.
This is the company’s first earnings call since Musk took a prominent role in the U.S. government under the Trump administration.
Follow our live updates before, during, and after earnings drop for all the latest insights and news from Tesla.
35 Stories
January 29, 2025 – January 29, 2025
More
Hardware
Samsung Unpacked 2025 live updates: Galaxy S25, new AI features, and more
Samsung’s annual Unpacked conference is here, and we’ve got our hands in all the announcements the company is set to reveal today.
And it seems that Samsung is extra excited about this year’s lineup: Not only did the company announce Unpacked details during its CES press conference, but reservations prior to the event came with a $50 Samsung store credit.
The one absolute slam dunk for the event is the Galaxy S25 line, and we’re expecting three key models: the S25, S25+, and S25 Ultra. And it wouldn’t be an event in 2025 without AI, so we can be sure Galaxy AI will be the centerpiece.
Follow our live updates as we share all the reveals and new hardware as it happens.
8 Stories
January 22, 2025 – January 22, 2025
More
Hardware
Live Updates CES 2025: The final reveals and analysis as the event nears its end
CES 2025, the annual consumer tech conference held in Las Vegas, is upon us — and this is where you can find all of our live updates. Over the next few days, TechCrunch reporters will be on the ground giving you the latest announcements and product reveals from Samsung, Nvidia, Toyota, Sony, and more. AI will presumably be the focal point of most company’s presentations, with everything from smart home upgrades to details about the hardware powering AI in consumer devices expected to be covered extensively through the event. Beyond AI, robotics and transportation remain at the core of CES, and we may see some surprises on the show floor after the initial run of major company reveals. Follow our live updates as we share all the reveals and new hardware as it happens.
142 Stories
January 5, 2025 – January 10, 2025
More
AI
Live Updates: 12 Days of OpenAI ChatGPT announcements and reveals
OpenAI’s end of the year event is here. The company is hosting “12 Days of OpenAI,” a series of daily livestreams with demos and product announcements through December 20. Follow along live with us to see all the reveals below.
38 Stories
December 5, 2024 – December 18, 2024
More
AI
AWS re:Invent 2024: Live updates from Amazon’s biggest event
Amazon’s re:invent 2024 conference returns to Las Vegas for a series of reveals and keynotes through December 6. AI is expected to be the focus of the event, but there’s plenty more in store for Amazon Web Services users, which you can follow live below throughout the week.
19 Stories
December 3, 2024 – December 6, 2024
More
Startups
TechCrunch Disrupt 2024: Tony Fadell, Mary Barra, Colin Kaepernick, and a new Startup Battlefield winner
TechCrunch Disrupt 2024 has begun, with hundreds of speakers, hundreds of startups and exhibitors, plus thousands of attendees meeting in San Francisco’s Moscone Center to experience three days of expertise, industry insights, and networking opportunities. In this live blog, you’ll get the rundown on the highlights from TechCrunch Disrupt’s panels, news from the show floor, and updates on the competition leading up to the winner of Startup Battlefield 200.
68 Stories
October 30, 2024 – October 30, 2024
More
Transportation
Tesla We, Robot event: Everything Elon Musk just showed, including the Cybercab, Robovan, and more
Tesla CEO Elon Musk first floated the idea of launching a robotaxi network using autonomous Teslas in 2019, saying he expected to begin deployment the following year. But Musk isn’t exactly known for sticking to his timelines. Five years later, Tesla is finally ready to reveal its Robotaxi at its splashy “We, Robot” event at a Hollywood studio. We’ll be covering everything that happens tonight, so stay tuned.
18 Stories
October 10, 2024 – October 11, 2024
More
Transportation
The fall of EV startup Fisker
Henrik Fisker once envisioned a burgeoning EV empire at the startup he named after himself, which was to be led by the Ocean SUV. But cracks started showing in that vision almost as soon as the Ocean hit the road in 2023.
33 Stories
N/A
More
Startups
The road to Disrupt
At TechCrunch Disrupt you’ll find innovation for every stage of your startup journey. Budding founders with revolutionary ideas, seasoned startups looking to scale, or investors seeking the next big thing, Disrupt offers unparalleled resources, connections, and expert insights to propel your venture forward.
Attendees will hear from CEOs, investors, founders, academics, and technologists on the latest innovations in tech. All this plus Startup Battlefield. In the Expo Hall you’ll get to talk to the finest display of early-stage startup innovation you’ll find under one roof and then catch the Startup Battlefield 20 finalists compete on the Disrupt Stage for the $100,000 equity-free prize.
10 Stories
N/A
More
Apps
Apple’s 2024: The iPhone 16, iOS 18, Apple Intelligence, and yes, the Vision Pro
Apple typically packs the year with new product reveals and software updates, though it’s not every year it kicks things off with brand-new hardware like the Vision Pro. Though that’s yet to take off, Apple’s focus is clearly on its AI platform Apple Intelligence, which has been a through-line across every iPhone, Watch, and iPad announcement through 2024.
Bookmark this page for continued updates on Apple’s rollouts as Apple Intelligence is set for its big debut in the U.S. in October.
9 Stories
September 9, 2024 – September 9, 2024
More
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunchStaffContact UsAdvertiseCrunchboard JobsSite Map
Terms of ServicePrivacy PolicyRSS Terms of UseCode of Conduct
H1-B VisaGPT PulseGrokSteph CurryTechCrunch DisruptTech LayoffsChatGPT
© 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.