Max Streaming Service Review: Loads of Content, but You Have to Make It Fit You - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
Max Streaming Service Review: Loads of Content, but You Have to Make It Fit You
Sister Wives and The Sopranos are found here together, but you have to train the app to help you find what you love.
Article updated on August 18, 2023 at 9:15 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Kourtnee Jackson
Written by
Meara Isenberg
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Kourtnee Jackson Senior Editor Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
Credentials Though Kourtnee hasn't won any journalism awards yet, she's been a Netflix streaming subscriber since 2012 and knows the magic of its hidden codes.
See full bio
Meara Isenberg Writer Meara covers streaming service news for CNET. She graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a degree in journalism. When she's not writing, she likes to dote over her cat, sip black coffee and try out new horror movies.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.0/ 10
SCORE Max
$10 at Max
Pros
Huge library that covers every era and viewers of all ages
Striking, eye-catching interface
Larger selection of 4K titles
Watch HBO shows as they air
Kids' content lineup and parental control features
Cons
Glitchy user experience
Missing episodes from popular TV shows
High price, even with ads
Table of Contents
Max Streaming Service Review: Loads of Content, but You Have to Make It Fit You
Streaming services compared
How much is Max?
Max subscription plans
Max's stable of TV shows and movies is its power
Huge bonus: More 4K titles
Early glitches have been fixed
User interface and navigation experience
Recommendations need time to get to know you
Using parental controls
Streaming Max with ads vs. ad-free
Max launched on May 23 as a refashioned streaming service that replaced HBO Max. It boasts more than 35,000 hours of content with a library twice as big as its predecessor. The redesigned service, which fuses Discovery Plus titles with the former HBO Max, highlights the depth of the Warner Bros. catalog.HBO has long been considered prestige television with shows like The Sopranos, Game of Thrones and Succession. Warner Bros. Discovery chose to drop HBO from Max's new name in favor of magnifying all of its brands and broadening its appeal to a larger audience -- including kids. (It already has a top spot on our list of the best streaming services for kids.) Merging all this content under one roof gives the platform a leg up on its biggest rivals: Netflix and Disney Plus. That said, Max is on the pricier side, with a starting rate of $10 per month to watch with ads, going up to $20 if you want 4K and more streams. If you already get access to Max for free, such as with an HBO cable subscription, you should definitely keep it. At the time of this writing, Max still has to work out some bugs with how the app functions to make streaming more seamless. But the breadth of the platform's catalog and video quality makes it worth having, especially if you're comfortable paying more money for a streaming service. You can always split the cost with someone outside your household and share your streams. And if you're someone who only wants to stream Discovery Plus, it's still available as a separate app.Stream Max
See at Max
Read more: Best Streaming Device for 2023Streaming services compared
MaxDisney PlusNetflixPrime VideoHulu Monthly price Starts at $10Starts at $8Starts at $7$9 (or included with $140/year Prime membership)Starts at $8Ads YesYesYesNoYesTop titles Succession, House of the Dragon, TitansThe Simpsons, The Mandalorian, BlueyStranger Things, Queen Charlotte, Squid Game, DahmerMarvelous Mrs. Maisel, The Boys, Rings of PowerHandmaid's Tale, The Bachelor, Bob's BurgersMobile downloads available Yes YesYesYesYes4K HDR available Yes Yes Yes (on Premium plan)YesYesNumber of streams 2 (4 for Ultimate)41 (2 for Standard, 4 on Premium)22
How much is Max?Prices for Max subscriptions are the same as the old HBO Max: With ads, it's $10 per month ($100 annually) and ad-free is $16 a month ($150 annually). But the new Ultimate ad-free plan is $20 monthly and will be the only subscription to offer 4K content and Dolby Atmos on select movies and shows. Features like 4K access and Dolby Vision are accessible during the first six months of Max's launch for legacy customers with the $16 ad-free plan.Max subscription plans
Ad-LiteAd-FreeUltimate (ad-free) Monthly price $10$16$20Number of screens you can watch at the same time 224Number of offline downloads 030100HD available YesYesYes4K Ultra HD available NoNo Yes
Though most of the major streaming platforms have raised prices, Max remains among the most expensive services. Its pricing is comparable to Netflix for the ad-free experience, but at least you can still share your password without paying extra. We spent time testing all three subscription tiers and noted any differences between Max and the previous version of the app. Each plan offers something different.Max's stable of TV shows and movies is its powerMax has a hefty catalog that carries a range of films and TV series across multiple genres, and there is something for every age group in your household. The marriage between the HBO Max library and Discovery Plus serves up a selection of food, drama, comedy, animation, crime, superheroes, nature docs and lifestyle. In addition to HBO titles and Max originals, you'll find DC, Studio Ghibli, CNN, Sesame Street, Looney Toons, Food Network, Magnolia Network, TLC, TCM, The CW and more -- including the massive vault of Warner Bros. film and TV shows that spans a century. Only some things from Discovery Plus are on the platform though -- namely the most popular content.Warner Bros. Discovery says it will roll out "40 new titles and seasons every month" on the service. At launch, the service debuted new Max originals like Gremlins: Secrets of the Mogwai and SmartLess: On The Road, along with HBO originals such as Reality (starring Sydney Sweeney). The catalog will continue to expand in the coming months, including platform exclusives.
Gizmo has an original series on Max that's perfect for the whole family. MaxThe Justice League lives here with other DC properties, and Discovery's stash of documentaries and reality TV shows is a click away. HBO favorites like The White Lotus, The Last of Us and House of the Dragon are available to stream as they air live on the cable network, with new episodes arriving each week. And you can still stream TCM classics such as Lean on Me and A Nightmare on Elm Street on the platform.Max's offerings for kids are a highlight of the service, with plenty to stream from Elmo, Cartoon Network, Scooby Doo, Lego, DC, all versions of Teen Titans and a host of originals. That includes preschool content like Blippi, family movies and teen-friendly TV shows, animation and film franchises.At launch, I noticed missing episodes for some shows like Regular Show and We Bare Bears, which seemed to have been a glitch. They've since been restored, but other series like Impractical Jokers do not have full seasons available. Some absent episodes are due to Warner Bros. Discovery intentionally removing content from the Max streaming lineup.Read more: The 34 Absolute Best TV Shows to Watch on MaxHuge bonus: More 4K titlesOn HBO Max, there were less than 40 movies and TV shows available to stream in 4K HDR. If you have Max's Ultimate plan and a device that supports 4K, you'll be able to stream more than 1,000 titles, including Avatar: The Way of Water, House of the Dragon, Dune, The Wizard of Oz, And Just Like That..., Euphoria and all the Harry Potter films. If you type "4K" in the search bar, 27 shows and movies pop up, but you should look for the format in the title's description. Warner Bros. Discovery said the 4K lineup might change, but you can find a list of what was available at launch by visiting this page. Be aware the company will continue to remove titles from the Max service as part of its cost-cutting strategy. Read more: HBO Max Is Now Max: New Movies and TV Shows You Can Watch Right Now
Watch Avatar: The Way of Water in 4K on Max. 20th Century StudiosEarly glitches have been fixedBefore I dive into the experience of using Max, you should know my early testing was filled with glitches. Max arrived on May 23, and I spent more than a week getting acquainted with it, learning its strengths and flaws while comparing it to its previous incarnation and its competitors.There were some hiccups. Just switching from the old purple HBO Max app on my Roku stick and Amazon Fire TV device to the new blue Max app was filled with frustration. And even after my week-long jaunt into Max, its performance was still less than smooth. Some of the glitches were minor, for example, a show host's picture didn't match the name in the description. Others, such as the TV app freezing and eventually kicking me out or some particularly wonky navigation, were more of an issue. For example, I found myself in a seemingly endless scroll of titles trying to reach the screen's bottom, when suddenly the selector box got cut off, the app froze and my TV screen turned into a blue abyss. As of August, however, these glitches have apparently been fixed. My profiles, watch list and Continue Watching rows all migrated without a hitch. I didn't lose any playback progress for movies and shows that I stopped, either. And despite the bugs, the video quality on Max is top-notch. The phone app experience was considerably better, too. Max is still working on bugs for all devices based on customer feedback, so if you encounter an issue, we urge you to report it.
I kept losing my place when scrolling up and down rows of content. Kourtnee Jackson/CNETUser interface and navigation experienceFor the most part, Max appears and operates similarly to HBO Max and other streamers like Hulu and Netflix. As promised, the rebranded service comes with some improvements and big changes to the user experience. The purple is gone (I miss it, and you may too), but even with the color palette switching to blue -- like Paramount Plus, Disney Plus and Sling TV -- the TV app is still crisp. The phone version seems darker but is still easy to follow. Among the added enhancements are an expanded set of profile avatars with more than 350 options, a default kid's profile for new accounts and optimized personalization.
Navigation icons on Max's phone app are at the bottom of a show's title page.   Max/Screenshot by CNETChanges to the home screen, navigation and content organization are noticeable. The top rail has five tabs: Home, TV series, Movies, HBO and Trending. The prominent placement of the HBO tab is helpful as a direct path to finding all releases -- new or old -- from the network and a plus for those who only care a little about the Discovery Plus library. On TVs, a new side panel has only three icons: Home, Search and My Stuff. The latter quickly took me to my Continue Watching section and watch list. On the phone app, this panel is located at the bottom and has a download icon if your plan includes them. Roughly three months after launch, my home screen has changed around a bit. My top row is For You recommendations, followed by Continue Watching, with a Featured row next. My List is right underneath the featured lineup with network brand buttons a couple rows down. Previously, the top row on Max was Continue Watching (if you had one), followed by curated recommendations and then My List (if you added titles). Warner Bros. Discovery stated that viewers' home screens would become more personalized over time, and the changes are slowly happening.
The old hub layout on HBO Max (left) versus the new format on Max. Kourtnee Jackson/CNETScrolling down the home screen reveals Warner Bros. Discovery's content brand hubs -- all 18 of them -- including HBO, TLC, HGTV, DC, Max Originals, Kids & Family or Ghibli. One obvious difference from HBO Max is the row of genre tiles is now located all the way at the bottom of the home screen. It's inconvenient as you need to scroll past all the other rows, including Max's curated collections, to get to them. You can use the app's search to find them, but simply putting them higher up on the home page makes more sense to me. As far as playback, I only experienced a few problems with Max. For example, while streaming one TV show episode, the video kept playing when I tried to rewind a scene, ignoring my command. And I do wish when I click a show on my Continue Watching row, the new episode would automatically play. It currently displays the previous episode and when you click it, it plays somewhere during the last two to three minutes of it. A single click to play new episodes in this row would be welcome.Recommendations need time to get to know youBecause Max is an upgrade -- or enhanced update -- of HBO Max, the streaming service started from scratch for recommendations. Your HBO Max watch history was not imported to the new version, and with all the merged content from Discovery Plus, there's more to sift through to watch -- or skip. Several months on, the algorithm is still learning who you are, and what you like, and will eventually catch up with your preferences, rotating in fresh additions.
Brand new rows of recommendations in Max. Kourtnee Jackson/CNETThe brand hubs will help you with the transition from HBO Max to Max, making it easier for customers to find content and fine-tune the recommendation machine. During testing, I noticed not all hubs are solely dedicated to their brands, so you're likely to find some cross-hub suggestions. It goes deeper than that with related collections and links to other movies or TV series featuring a particular actor. For instance, you can select a Harry Potter cast member or other Warner-owned franchises and be whisked away to the land of Superman, Middle-Earth, The Matrix, James Bond and additional collections.Using parental controlsI gave the default kid's profile a spin to get a feel for the experience. It's preconfigured with access to PG- and TV-PG-rated movies and shows. Parents can adjust the content ratings, and you're prompted to do so the first time you click on the profile. You can only change the settings from a web browser, though. Ratings range from little kids -- which starts at TV-Y -- up to teens, with the most mature options being TV-14 and PG-13. As long as you keep the profile set to Kids Mode, your child will only see age-appropriate content according to the ratings that you choose. If you toggle the kid-proof exit button, a four-digit PIN is required in order to exit the profile. The home screens look different depending on the age and content ratings, so you may want to create separate profiles if you have older kids and little ones in the family. When I set my kid's profile for teens, some of the titles that showed up on the home screen included Talladega Nights, Friends, The Big Bang Theory, 50 First Dates, Teen Titans Go! and the Harry Potter collection. Be aware that there's a wide variety of content under the teen-rating umbrella if you're a parent who wants to monitor what your child is watching.Read more: 10 Things You Can Do to Save Money on StreamingStreaming Max with ads vs. ad-freeOn the ad-based plan, the ad load is virtually the same as before, with 3 to 4 minutes of commercials playing per hour of content. When I watched one 90-minute episode of 90 Day Fiancé, I encountered five commercial breaks of various lengths that lasted a total of 3 minutes, 15 seconds. By contrast, when I streamed Shazam 2 (which runs for 2 hours, 10 minutes), the total ad time was just under 2 minutes, including a 25-second preroll.While using the kid's profile, I watched one 24-minute episode of Full House with no ads, and it was the same for a short episode of Teen Titans Go. There were no commercials during films either in this profile. Competitor Disney Plus does include ads while streaming in a kid's profile, though Max and Netflix avoid it. Still, if you can afford the extra $6 a month, go ad-free. Downloads are only available on ad-free subscriptions, and speeds are fairly quick. It only took me about 35 seconds to download one episode of Barry on my phone, and a little over 3 minutes for The Batman -- a movie that runs three hours. You have the option to select video quality for downloads, choosing from "good" for faster speeds, "better" for higher-quality video that uses more data or "best," which downloads at a slower rate. It's one of the areas that the Warner Bros. Discovery team worked to improve.When I tested the app with the premium Ultimate subscription, I noticed the experience was the same as the $16 ad-free version. There's a short promo reel featuring Max movies and shows that runs before some content, but not all. It played before Shazam!: Fury of the Gods, but not when I streamed an episode of Titans. So, for $4 more, we get two more simultaneous streams, all the 4K content and 100 downloads versus 30.
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
KOURTNEE JACKSON
Senior Editor Kourtnee covers TV streaming services and home entertainment. She previously worked as an entertainment reporter at Showbiz Cheat Sheet, where she wrote about film, television, music, celebrities and streaming platforms.
See full bio
MEARA ISENBERG
Writer Meara covers streaming service news for CNET. She graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a degree in journalism. When she's not writing, she likes to dote over her cat, sip black coffee and try out new horror movies.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.