NIH Funded Post-Doctoral Fellow, Associate Research Scholar job with University of Oklahoma Health Science Center, Stephenson Cancer Center | 12844853
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
NIH Funded Post-Doctoral Fellow, Associate Research Scholar
Employer
University of Oklahoma Health Science Center, Stephenson Cancer Center
Location
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
Salary
Salary to be commensurate with experience
Closing date
14 Nov 2025
Website
http://www.ouhsc.edu
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Health Science
Job Type
Postdoctoral
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
NIH-funded post-doctoral research fellow position in cancer metabolomics
The Pankaj Singh lab at the newly established Department of Oncology Science and the NCI-designated OU Health Campus/Stephenson Cancer Center is recruiting a passionate and dedicated postdoctoral researcher to join an NIH/NCI-funded study on cancer metabolomics. The research project involves investigating metabolic alterations in cancer cells and tumor tissues, tumor-stromal metabolic crosstalk, and immunometabolism, using cutting-edge targeted and untargeted metabolomic technologies and spatial LC-MS/MS-based metabolic imaging. A successful postdoctoral candidate should have a Ph.D. in the relevant field with a strong background in LC-MS/MS. Some bioinformatics expertise is preferred but not required. More details about our work can be found in some of our recent publications (Cancer Cell 2017 32(1):71-87; JEM 2020 217 (7):e20190745; PNAS 109(34):13787-92; Immunity 2019 50(3):576-590; Nature Medicine. 2019 25(4):628-640; Gastroenterology 2021 Jul 8:S0016-5085(21)03159-0; Nature Reviews Cancer 2023 Mar 27:1-20, Nature Cell Biology, 2024 May;26(5):840).
Our program is well-funded by NCI, with multiple R01 grants and a U54 grant on acquired therapy resistance in pancreatic cancer.
The Singh lab is a friendly, welcoming, and inclusive place with great excitement for cancer research. We plan to complete the recruitment process soon.
Interested candidates should submit their CV directly at Onc-Sci@ou.edu.
The University, in compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, genetic information, gender identity/expression (consistent with applicable law), age (40 or older), religion, disability, political beliefs, or status as a veteran in any of its policies, practices, or procedures. This includes but is not limited to admissions, employment, housing, financial aid, and educational services.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for NIH Funded Post-Doctoral Fellow, Associate Research Scholar
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Cancer Researcher Academic Rank/DOQ
Omaha, Nebraska
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software