validation - Dataquality for the Azure Data Factories and Synapse Analytics - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Dataquality for the Azure Data Factories and Synapse Analytics [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
yesterday
Modified
today
Viewed
23 times
Part of Microsoft Azure Collective
-1
Closed. This question is not about programming or software development. It is not currently accepting answers.
This question does not appear to be about a specific programming problem, a software algorithm, or software tools primarily used by programmers. If you believe the question would be on-topic on another Stack Exchange site, you can leave a comment to explain where the question may be able to be answered.
Closed 7 hours ago.
Improve this question
I'm working with several Azure data pipelines in ADF's and ASA, wondering what data quality solution you're using to make sure the source and target counts matches and other scenarios. We deal with a lot of manufacturing data in SAP as source and target is a Synapse warehouse.
Right now we are only relying on Azure log analytics to trigger the email alert and pipelines failures through service now.
Please advise me - looking forward to connect with people to understand this.
Any guidance to how to do data quality monitoring for my use cases.
azurevalidationazure-data-factoryazure-synapseazure-synapse-analytics
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 19 hours ago
marc_s
759k185185 gold badges1.4k1.4k silver badges1.5k1.5k bronze badges
asked yesterday
Hustle_all_the_timeHustle_all_the_time
111 bronze badge
New contributor
Hustle_all_the_time is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
Add a comment
|
Related questions
1
Extracting and Transforming Data from local MySQL to Azure Synapse Data Warehouse
2
Azure Synapse Analytics adding source file name as column value in sink in pipelines copy data
0
How to get error details logs in log analytics workspace for synapse analytics workspace
Related questions
1
Extracting and Transforming Data from local MySQL to Azure Synapse Data Warehouse
2
Azure Synapse Analytics adding source file name as column value in sink in pipelines copy data
0
How to get error details logs in log analytics workspace for synapse analytics workspace
0
Is Azure Synapse Link a good way of loading the data in a Data Warehouse?
0
Auto Detect Data Types with Azure Synapse Analytics Copy Data (Import)
2
How to delete a pipeline trigger in Azure Synapse Analytics
2
Azure Data Explorer vs Azure Synapse Analytics (a.k.a SQL DW)
0
Azure Synapse pipeline with dataflows failing randomly
Load 5 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
azurevalidationazure-data-factoryazure-synapseazure-synapse-analytics
See similar questions with these tags.
Microsoft Azure
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Is it possible to follow the Buddha’s core teachings while rejecting supernatural beliefs like gods, ghosts, reincarnation, heaven and hell realms?
Continue the spiral
How does Trump come up with the sizes of his lawsuits?
When was God featured in The Simpsons?
In what circumstances is projecting an image of a politican in public an offence?
How do I remove a gap in date x axis?
Is "Why the difference?" a valid instance of ellipsis, if yes is "Why going there?" also valid?
What is the probability that a plane through three random points on the surface of the Earth intersects the Moon?
What is Sealord frequency used prior to entering restricted airspace?
How to design the input resistance of a voltage regulator?
Deleted apps showing in System settings/Menu bar
Where can a French citizen with Russian visa legally cross by bike/foot/car from China into Russia at a border point as close as possible to Dongning?
"a bunch of random Xs {do/does}”
Is the yeast used in chicken breading yeast or yeast extract
Changing the background color of a listing depending on the language
What would be the impact of a being that is so hot it melts metal from 1km away. How far away would be habitable? (On Earth btw)
Mystery Canon EF adapter with two cables?
Runtime estimation in "How to factor 2048 bit RSA integers with less than a million noisy qubits"
What is the purpose of the option `delete readonly = yes` available for the configuration of a Samba service?
How does the "Emerge" ability work when dealing with double-faced cards?
Pressure treated or regular wood for temporary ramp?
What does, "as having nothing" mean in 2 Corinthians 6:10?
NTRU-HRSS definition of Lift
What was the "shear wedge" used on the Tethered Satellite System?
more hot questions
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093