U.K., Canada and Australia recognize a Palestinian state : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
U.K., Canada and Australia recognize a Palestinian state The designation from U.S. allies follows U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer's meeting with President Trump last week.
Special Series Middle East conflict
Conflict in the Middle East has been escalating. These stories provide context for current developments and the history that led up to them.
U.K., Canada and Australia recognize a Palestinian state, despite U.S. opposition
Updated September 21, 20252:01 PM ET
Originally published September 21, 20255:38 AM ET
By
Chandelis Duster
U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer and Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney meet before the start of the G7 summit at Parliament Hill on June 15, 2025 in Ottawa, Canada.
Suzanne Plunkett/WPA Pool/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Suzanne Plunkett/WPA Pool/Getty Images
Canada, the U.K., Australia and other countries on Sunday announced they will formally recognize Palestine as a state — a move that has long been opposed by the U.S. and Israel. "We recognized the State of Israel more than 75 years ago as a homeland for the Jewish people. Today we join over 150 countries who recognize a Palestinian State also. A pledge to the Palestinian and Israeli people, that there can be a better future," U.K. Prime Minister Keir Starmer said in a speech on Sunday. Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney said Sunday recognizing Palestine as a state "empowers those who seek peaceful coexistence and the end of Hamas."
Sponsor Message
Interview highlights
Israel is committing genocide in Gaza, a UN inquiry finds
"This in no way legitimises terrorism, nor is it any reward for it. Furthermore, it in no way compromises Canada's steadfast support for the State of Israel, its people, and their security — security that can only ultimately be guaranteed through the achievement of a comprehensive two-state solution," Carney said in a statement. Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said Sunday that opening embassies and establishing diplomatic relations will be considered as the Palestinian Authority makes progress on its commitment to reform. "Already, crucial work is underway across the international community to develop a credible peace plan that enables the reconstruction of Gaza, builds the capacity of the state of Palestine and guarantees the security of Israel," Albanese said in a statement. The designation from U.S. allies follows Starmer's meeting with President Trump last week. After their meeting, Trump said he wanted the war in Gaza to end but disagreed with plans to recognize Palestine as a state. "I have a disagreement with the prime minister on that score," Trump said during a press conference. World leaders will meet for the UN General Assembly on Tuesday, with more countries, including France, expected to formally recognize Palestine as a state in the coming days. More than 140 of 193 UN member states already recognize Palestine as a state.
Sponsor Message
French President Emmanuel Macron said in July France would announce the designation at the assembly, posting on X that recognizing Israel and Palestine will contribute to "the security of all in the region." Portugal's Ministry of Foreign Affairs also announced on Friday that it would formally recognize Palestine as a state.
Displaced Palestinians flee northern Gaza Strip, by foot and in vehicles, carrying their belongings along the coastal road, near Wadi Gaza, Saturday, Sept. 20, 2025.
Abdel Kareem Hana/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Abdel Kareem Hana/AP
Israeli and Palestinian reactions News that countries had formally recognized Palestine as a state was praised by Palestinian officials. Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas stressed in multiple statements that it will help pave the way for a two-state solution, and allow Palestine to live "side by side with the State of Israel in security, peace and good neighborliness."
Planet Money
In Gaza, money is falling apart
In the Israeli-occupied West Bank, reaction among Palestinians was mixed. Sara Mohammed, a 20-year-old computer engineering student at Birzeit University near Ramallah, told NPR that she wants to see more concrete action.
"We want people to speak up to change something — not to just say it and move on," she said.
The muted mood in the West Bank — where there are now more than 1,200 Israeli-manned checkpoints and gates, making travel very difficult — is a far cry from celebrations that broke out back in 2012 when the UN upgraded Palestine to observer state status. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu denounced the countries' new designation, saying on Sunday in a message posted on X that "there will be no Palestinian state west of the Jordan." "I have a clear message to those leaders who recognize a Palestinian state after the terrible massacre of October 7: You are giving a huge reward to terrorism," Netanyahu said. "The response to the latest attempt to impose a terrorist state on us in the heart of our country will be given after my return from the US. We will wait." And as the countries announced the recognition, Israel launched an attack on Gaza City, killing more than 40 people, according to The Associated Press.
Sponsor Message
NPR's Carrie Kahn contributed to this report from Ramallah.
Britain
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor