firebase - BigQuery shows only MESSAGE_ACCEPTED (no MESSAGE_DELIVERED) for Admin SDK–sent iOS notifications - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
BigQuery shows only MESSAGE_ACCEPTED (no MESSAGE_DELIVERED) for Admin SDK–sent iOS notifications
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
32 times
Part of
Mobile Development and Google Cloud Collectives
0
We use the Firebase Admin Java SDK to send push notifications to iOS devices.
Messages appear in the BigQuery firebase_messaging export with message_status = MESSAGE_ACCEPTED, but never progress to MESSAGE_DELIVERED.
When sending the same notification through the Firebase Console, the BigQuery table shows both MESSAGE_ACCEPTED and MESSAGE_DELIVERED as expected.
Steps to Reproduce:
Use the Admin SDK (firebase-admin:9.3.0, Java) and the code sample below to send a notification to a valid iOS device token.
Verify the message reaches the device (the user sees the notification).
Query the BigQuery table for that message_id.
Only a single row appears with message_status = MESSAGE_ACCEPTED.
Repeat by sending the same payload from the Firebase Console. BigQuery now shows a second row with message_status = MESSAGE_DELIVERED.
Code Sample for build the message:
Message.Builder builder = Message.builder()
.setApnsConfig(ApnsConfig.builder()
.setAps(Aps.builder()
.setBadge(badge)
.setSound("default")
.build())
.build())
.setNotification(Notification.builder()
.setTitle(title)
.setBody(content)
.build())
.setToken(pushToken);`
code to send to FCM
BatchResponse response =
FirebaseMessaging.getInstance(firebaseApp).sendEach(messages);
Environment:
Firebase Admin Java SDK: 9.3.0
BigQuery export enabled
Expected Result:
BigQuery should show MESSAGE_DELIVERED once APNs confirms delivery, just as it does when messages are sent from the Firebase Console.
Actual Result:
Only MESSAGE_ACCEPTED is recorded for SDK-sent messages.
Questions for Support:
Is there any known issue with delivery receipts for iOS when sending via sendEach()? I inspected the request and see Firebase console uses different API (Firebase Campaign API) than admin SDK.
Are additional APNs headers (e.g., apns-push-type: alert) required for BigQuery to record MESSAGE_DELIVERED?
Any other things I can do to make proper deliver status work for ios devices?
Thank you
iosfirebasegoogle-bigqueryfirebase-cloud-messagingfirebase-admin
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited Sep 17 at 19:24
Doug Stevenson
320k3737 gold badges457457 silver badges473473 bronze badges
asked Sep 17 at 18:47
Oliver ZhuOliver Zhu
122 bronze badges
New contributor
Oliver Zhu is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
Add a comment
|
Related questions
1413
How can I check for an active Internet connection on iOS or macOS?
8
sending notification using firebase admin sdk not working
952
Xcode building for iOS Simulator, but linking in an object file built for iOS, for architecture 'arm64'
Related questions
1413
How can I check for an active Internet connection on iOS or macOS?
8
sending notification using firebase admin sdk not working
952
Xcode building for iOS Simulator, but linking in an object file built for iOS, for architecture 'arm64'
5
When to use iOS device token when sending push notifications through FCM?
8
Python Firebase Admin SDK appears successful but I never receive the notification
2
iOS app not receiving Firebase notifications
79
"Requested entity was not found" error when trying to send a push notification using Firebase Cloud Messaging in Firebase Cloud Functions
Load 4 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
iosfirebasegoogle-bigqueryfirebase-cloud-messagingfirebase-admin
See similar questions with these tags.
Mobile Development
Collective
See more
Google Cloud
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Linked
4
Firebase Cloud Messaging - MESSAGE_DELIVERED Event Not Appearing in BigQuery Exported Data After Completing Delivery Metrics Setup
Hot Network Questions
I need a reason for artillery to still be used despite suboptimal conditions and terrain
What does, "as having nothing" mean in 2 Corinthians 6:10?
How did "hospital" lose its first syllable in some languages?
Linear rheostat - where lies a trick of a sliding contact with isolated wire?
Is "allowed" a past participle or an adjective?
I have so many results I don't know how to write the results in my research paper
What's that 90s short-story? A magazine guess-how-many-objects-fit contest, a computer calculation bug, and prize money delivered as gold
How to remove BitLocker encryption for a volume that does not have a drive-letter
Should you publish a new result as an appendum?
Making `apt-get` read answers from stdin on graphical Ubuntu
Toilet seat positioning on thunder box
How could triangles exist?
Historic mistake in sign of KdV equation
Was it normal to refer to God as 'the Father' during the time of Jesus?
Submitted the same research article in two journals, now I'm scared
Unable to Access CPU Model Name in Debian VMWare
Clarification of "Trautes Heim, Glück allein"
Is there a way to name 1,4-dimethylcyclohexan-1-ol in a way that indicates the methyl groups must be cis?
Can customers receive partial refunds on their taxi trip if the driver took suboptimal routes?
Why does temperature increase mass?
Does every ultrafilter on real numbers contain a meager set?
Maximum distance with 100 motorbikes carrying limited fuel and consuming 1L/km - Interview
Update docker service volume
Scifi story set in a spaceship around a weird star
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211