GNOME 49 arrives this week, and it's packed with features and polish you'll love | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Linux
GNOME 49 arrives this week, and it's packed with features and polish you'll love
If you're a GNOME user, it's time to celebrate because there's a new release coming your way with some very interesting additions.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 16, 2025 at 9:05 a.m. PT
Jack Wallen/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysGNOME 49 will be available on Sept. 17.The latest release switches out some default apps.This new GNOME adds just the right amount of polish.GNOME is a Linux desktop environment that you either love or hate. I've used GNOME and GNOME-based desktops for years and have always fallen on the side of "love. " With each new release, I always find a feature or two (or a bit of extra polish) that makes me smile.The release of GNOME 49 is no different. Although there might not be any game-changing features for this release (I'm guessing the developers are holding out until the big 5-0), there's just enough to make it a worthy upgrade from 48.Also: This beautiful Linux distro deserves to be better known - here's whyGNOME 49 will officially be released on Sept. 17 and will hopefully make it to your distribution of choice soon after.If you're curious as to what's coming, read on.Say goodbye to X11 (sort of)With the release of GNOME 49, the X11 session has been officially disabled. That doesn't mean your distribution will leave it disabled, as the GNOME team has made it possible for distro maintainers to enable X11 support.Also: 5 quick tweaks make your GNOME desktop so much easier to useEnjoy X11 while you can, because the team plans on stripping all X11 code from the desktop for the 50th release.GNOME Shell is now a Wayland-only desktop environment. For those who use applications that have yet to add Wayland support, fret not, as Xwayland will continue to work, so those apps will still run.Mutter mattersMutter is GNOME's window manager, so it's responsible for managing, you guessed it, windows. GNOME 49 includes quite a lot of improvements to the window manager, such as:Support for 10, 12, and 16-bit software decoding formatsImproved factional scaling.Touchpad acceleration profile enabled at login.Support for ICC profiles.Separate speeds for trackpoint and mouse.Support for the pointer warp protocol.Files, files, filesThe GNOME file manager, Files (aka Nautilus), includes a few improvements. One of the better additions is the pill-type search option toggles, which are rather Android-like. Those pills make it much easier to refine your searches.
If you like to filter your searches, it's much easier now. Jack Wallen/ZDNETAnother nice touch is that hidden files appear with a bit of transparency, so they are easier to find. Other additions/improvements include:Batch rename dialog is adaptiveA more modern app chooser.Local mounts are now sorted by device name.It's now possible to copy network address in the panelDefault appsThe GNOME developers have made a slight change to some of the default apps. For example, Totem has been the default GNOME video player for years, but has been replaced by Showtime. Showtime is a fairly basic application, but it's much more reliable than Totem.Also: The top 6 GNOME extensions I install firstThe long-in-the-tooth Evince document viewer has been replaced by Papers, which is a fork of Evince that was totally rebuilt using Rust, which means it's much faster than Evince.Outside of those two changes, the remaining default apps are still the same.Core appsGNOME ships with several core apps, such as Web (browser), Calendar, Software, Snapshot, Maps, Weather, Text Editor, Pyxis (terminal), and Connections (remote desktop). Each of these have seen improvements, such as:Calendar now enjoys a hideable sidebar and an adaptable UI, based on window size.Connections can now forward multitouch input from a client to a remote host.Maps now includes point-of-interest search for both vegan and vegetarian restaurants. Given I'm vegan, that's good news.Text Editor now has improved session saving and document filtering.Ptyxis gets a new menu for searching across containers and profiles.Snapshot gets hardware-accelerated video encoding.Software now performs much better.Weather gets improved keyboard shortcuts.Web gets a new bookmark editing mode, better ad blocking, and inline completion for the address bar. You'll also get built-in support for hardware security keys.GNOME ShellGNOME Shell gets plenty of changes that come together to make the desktop more polished than ever. For example, you'll now find a media controller widget for the lockscreen, as well as the addition of shutdown and restart buttons. The Do Not Disturb toggle is now found in the Quick Settings menu, so it's easier to access.
If you use Do Not Disturb, it's now easier to access. Jack Wallen/ZDNETAnother really cool feature is the ability to change the brightness on a per-monitor basis. On top of those changes, you'll find the following additions:Improved animations.Screenshots/screencasts notifications are now grouped.Battery charging limits are now more obvious.Display brightness change in 5% increments.All-in-all, GNOME 49 looks to add just the right amount of polish to an already amazing desktop environment. Although I see this as more of a stepping stone to GNOME 50, 49 should be an improvement over 48, which means you'll definitely want to upgrade when it becomes available.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Linux Mint 22.2 'Zara' makes my favorite distro even better - what's new
This beautiful Linux distro deserves to be better known - here's why
I swapped my favorite Linux desktop for System76's COSMIC alpha - and I have zero regrets
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use