Explore research metrics at PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Research metrics
PLOS is proud to play a role in helping researchers maximize the visibility and impact of their work, advance scientific discovery, and increase open science adoption within the communities we serve.Everything we publish is immediately and freely accessible to readers everywhere, and we work tirelessly to increase adoption of open science practices that facilitate research transparency, reproducibility, and reuse.
PLOS is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA)
Aligned with our core mission and as a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), PLOS has always advocated for improving the ways in which the outputs of scientific research are evaluated. Central to this commitment is a reduction in the reliance on the Journal Impact Factor™, and driving towards research assessment based on article-level metrics.
Journal and article-level metrics^
We recognize that authors are often required to meet specific expectations, and rely on a range of metrics to determine a journal’s suitability for their work. All of our journals have a range of metrics available, including the Journal Impact Factor™, SJR, CiteScore, and h-index, which are available from the respective databases. In line with our DORA commitment, these subjective metrics are not promoted by PLOS.More specific metrics on publication timings and acceptance rates are included below.We encourage all authors who publish in a PLOS journal to track their personal article-level-metrics including views and citations, along with using our Altmetric integration to track news, policy, and social media mentions. Our two newest journals, PLOS Complex Systems and PLOS Mental Health, opened for submissions in 2023, with the first articles published in 2024.
Citations: 55,752Time to first decision: 7 daysTime to publication: 246 daysAcceptance rate: 10%Number of publications: 479
Citations: 1,283Time to first decision: 53 daysTime to publication: 238 daysAcceptance rate: 43%Number of publications: 155
Citations: 61,826Time to first decision: 44 daysTime to publication: 227 daysAcceptance rate: 35%Number of publications: 751
Citations: 15Time to first decision: 53 daysTime to publication: 233 daysAcceptance rate: 24%Number of publications: 24
Citations: 3,775Time to first decision: 65 daysTime to publication: 270 daysAcceptance rate: 51%Number of publications: 238
Citations: 62,865Time to first decision: 13 daysTime to publication: 186 daysAcceptance rate: 22%Number of publications: 312
Citations: 6,709Time to first decision: 50 daysTime to publication: 230 daysAcceptance rate: 39%Number of publications: 1,037
Citations: 55,025Time to first decision: 1 dayTime to publication: 202 daysAcceptance rate: 3.1%Number of publications: 152
Citations: 24Time to first decision: 43 daysTime to publication: 193 days Acceptance rate: 33%Number of publications: 122
Citations: 48,838Time to first decision: 48 daysTime to publication: 189 daysAcceptance rate: 43%Number of publications: 681
Citations: 1,034,788Time to first decision: 40 daysTime to publication: 213 daysAcceptance rate: 31%Number of publications: 16,621
Citations: 67,320Time to first decision: 21 daysTime to publication: 171 daysAcceptance rate: 25%Number of publications: 687
Citations: 408Time to first decision: 48 daysTime to publication: 321 daysAcceptance rate: 19%Number of publications: 27
Citations: 468Time to first decision: 66 daysTime to publication: 234 daysAcceptance rate: 50%Number of publications: 88
^ All metrics are for 2024. 2025 metrics will be available in July 2026. This page will be updated annually. Citation data sourced from Digital Science’s Dimensions platform, available at https://app.dimensions.ai. Time to first decision (TTFD) and time to publication (TTP) are median average calculations from PLOS data. Acceptance rate is an average percentage, and number of publications refers to the total articles published in the named journal.
Open Science Indicators
Open Science Indicators are a tool developed by PLOS in collaboration with DataSeer to measure open science behaviors in a standardized way. OSIs enable us to better understand the state of open science practice today and identify ways in which we can further advance adoption of best practices. The metrics below represent open science behaviors across articles published in PLOS journals in 2024, and are updated every year. The 2025 metrics will be available in July 2026.
Data shared in a repository
31%
versus 23% at comparators
Code shared of code generated
42%
versus 25% at comparators
Preprint sharing
23%
versus 27% at comparators
Find out more about the latest Open Science Indicators results
Definitions of metrics used at PLOS
Open Science Indicators
PLOS partnered with DataSeer to develop Open Science Indicators (OSIs) as a framework for measuring specific open science characteristics and behaviors observable in published research articles.PLOS publishes detailed data for all journal titles, as well as comparator data points. You can download the full dataset here.
Data shared in a repository
The proportion of research articles published in the given year where research data produced or analyzed by the study has been detected in a data repository and linked to the article.
Code shared out of code generated
The proportion of research articles published in the given year where publicly available code associated with the study has been detected, shown as a percentage of articles that generated code.
Published articles with preprints
The proportion of all published research articles in the given year where a preprint version of the article has been detected.
Journal metrics
A number of journal-level metrics from various indexers have emerged over recent years in an effort to broaden the evaluation of scholarly journals. We encourage authors to utilize a variety of factors in determining the right journal for their research.
Altmetric
Article-level-metrics are quantifiable measures at the article level that document the many ways in which both scientists and the general public engage with published research. PLOS articles display views, discussions, saves, and recommendations. Altmetric.com describes the sources for their data here.
SJR (SCImago Journal Rank)
The SJR measures weighted citations received by the journal. Weightings depend on the subject field and prestige (SJR) of the citing journal and in general, self-citations are not included in the calculation and citation weighting.
CiteScore
The average citations per document that a journal receives over a three-year period. It is calculated as the number of citations received in the given year to documents published in the previous three years, divided by the number of documents for the three years.
Google Scholar
h-IndexThe h-index measures both productivity and citation impact of publications. It is calculated by counting the number of publications for which an author has been cited by other authors at least that same number of times – for example, a h-index of 20 would indicate 20 articles, each cited at least 20 times.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top