World Rabies Day 2025
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Português
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Home/
Newsroom/
Events/
Detail/
World Rabies Day 2025
Dennis Brussaard / WSPA
Dog-mediated rabies kills tens of thousands of people every year, many of whom are children.
©
Credits
World Rabies Day 2025
28 September 2025
This year’s World Rabies Day theme is: “Act now: You, Me, Community”.28 September this year will mark the 19th World Rabies Day. This year’s "Act now: you, me, communities" is calling on you, me, and our communities to take responsibility, work together, and drive real change. For the first time in its 19-year history, WRD’s theme does not include the word "rabies", showing how well-established this movement has become. Whether you are an individual, part of an organization, or a decision-maker, the time to act is today.What Does the Theme Mean?You – Take action in your personal life: vaccinate your dog, educate yourself about how to prevent rabies and Pre- and Post-Exposure Prophylaxis, or advocate for better policies.Me – Lead by example: inspire others, train professionals, or support rabies elimination efforts in your community.Community – Work together: organize vaccination campaigns, educate learners and their families, and push for stronger rabies elimination programs.Our call to Act Now is the difference between life and death. As a Neglected Tropical Disease (NTD), rabies disproportionately affects underserved communities, mainly in Africa and Asia. Every nine minutes, rabies claims another victim, but death is 100% preventable. When we work together, eliminating this disease for good relies on all of us acting now!Key Highlights for 2025Focus on Community EngagementAwareness about dog bite prevention and what to do in the event of a dog bite is critical. Rabies need not be fatal if all the post exposure steps are taken.  WHO has developed a series of education films to support community understanding.  The films are aimed at different audiences.  For children, the focus is how to behave responsibly around dogs and the importance of telling an adult if they are bitten or scratched by an animal. For parents, teachers and the community a second film focuses on the critical importance of immediate wound washing in the event of a bite. For community health workers, the third film highlights the important steps to be taken prior to seeking further clinical advice. Rabies Integrated into Gavi 5.0In a major milestone for global rabies elimination efforts, rabies was included in Gavi’s 5.0 vaccine investment strategy. Five countries — Tanzania, Madagascar, Côte d’Ivoire, Yemen, and Syria — have already successfully applied for support. Planning is now underway to assist these countries with program rollout.Integrated Bite Case Management (IBCM) Flyer and Checklist Launched A new IBCM flyer and checklist has been developed as a practical, how-to guide to IBCM. The checklist offers clear process for IBCM, outlining the main benefits as well as the pre-requisites with practical information for countries on how to prepare for IBCM.  Global Health Observatory UpdatedThe WHO Global Health Observatory has been updated to include newly available rabies data, supporting data-driven policy and programming. This platform offers a clearer picture of global progress and remaining gaps in data and surveillance.Rabies Today PodcastWHO is a founding partner of United Against Rabies Forum have There are a range of resources available including Series 2 of the Rabies Today Podcast which can be found here. This series focused on a range of challenges tackling rabies in conflict affected environments and the importance of raising awareness in endemic and non-endemic countries. The 2025 theme for World Rabies Day “Act Now: You, Me, Community,” is a powerful call for shared responsibility and immediate action and reinforces that rabies prevention is not a siloed effort. It is a shared responsibility across the pillars of human health, animal health, including vaccinating dogs and community engagement.  By acting together, we can eliminate this preventable disease once and for all.How Can You Act Now?Host an event – Organize a rabies awareness campaign, a school workshop, or a local vaccination drive.Nominate a rabies hero – Submit a nomination for the World Rabies Day Awards to celebrate individuals already making a difference.Learn and share – Take one of WHO'’s free online courses and spread awareness in your network.Raise your voice – Share messages on social media, talk to local leaders, or host a discussion in your community.You can be part of the solution! Act Now: You, Me, Community is more than a theme: it is a call to action that will save lives.Join us in making World Rabies Day 2025 the most impactful yet.  What will you do to Act Now?If you are planning any activity, register your own event here and follow other events.
Related
Media kitDownload the World Rabies Day 2025 Media kit(prepared by the Global Alliance for Rabies Control (GARC)Science in 5Episode #126 - Rabies: Protect yourself and your pets27 September 2024 | What is rabies? How serious is it? How can you prevent rabies? Dr Bernadette Abela explains this and what you can do immediately after a bite in Science in 5 today.OpenWHO CoursesRabies & One Health: From basics to cross-sectoral action to stop human rabies deathsOne Health in action against Neglected Tropical DiseasesAll NTD courses →Health topicRabies
News
Gavi to boost access to life-saving human rabies vaccines in over 50 countries: Gavi, WHO and UAR
13 June 2024
Fact sheets
Rabies
5 June 2024
More
World Rabies Day archives
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO