Fire Emblem Shadows is Among Us with a twist
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Fire Emblem
There is a new Fire Emblem among us...
Fire Emblem Shadows is Among Us with a twist
By
Aimee Hart
Published 15 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
How a death metal singer helped bring Dead by Daylight’s Thai boogeyman to life
2 days ago
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
2 days ago
PSA: You have 1 week to claim these free shiny Legendary Pokémon in Scarlet and Violet
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
add iframe code inside nonscript tag for crwaler
Image: Nintendo/Intelligent Systems
If someone had told me that Nintendo and Intelligent Systems would shadow-drop a random Fire Emblem mobile game on a Wednesday evening, I probably wouldn't have believed it. And yet, here we go, and Fire Emblem Shadows is among us. Literally. Revealed via Nintendo and a launch trailer, Fire Emblem Shadows dares to ask: What if you gave all the Fire Emblem Lords fursonas and wrapped it up neatly into a game that's one half social deduction and the other half real-time strategy? Add in a sprinkling of role-playing, and that seems to make up the newest Fire Emblem mobile game. You and two other players make your way through two rounds of a labyrinth, working together as disciples of light to conquer foes and earn rewards. However, there's a catch: One of you is a traitor who isn't a disciple of light at all, but a disciple of shadow. In the first round, the three players fight together. In the second round, the two players must fight against the more powerful traitor. After the first round, players have 10 seconds to vote on who they believe the disciple of shadow is. If they guess correctly, they get a boost in the final battle. If they guess wrong, the battle becomes more challenging. On paper, it feels very much like Fire Emblem's take on Among Us, but with the added twist of having real-time combat. It's not the first Fire Emblem mobile game, either. Fire Emblem Heroes continues to add new characters and stories every month, but it's still strange that the franchise has pivoted from its more strategic, near-chess-like gameplay. Sure, they did it with the Warriors titles, but that was at least open about being a spin-off. Either way, I doubt Fire Emblem Shadows' real-time combat will be enough to turn off hardcore fans of the franchise. Would I have expected a mobile spin-off to go down this route? Is it as intriguing as Fortune's Weave looks to be? Not really, but I can't deny that I'm a little curious about this new take from Intelligent Systems.
Fire Emblem Shadows is now available for free download on iOS and Android, with optional in-game purchases, including a seasonal pass.
Gaming
Mobile
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
Rambo prequel director says AI de-aging isn’t good enough for Sylvester Stallone to return
2 days ago
Baby Steps’ nudity toggle unleashes a donkey dong bonanza
1 day ago
I played an hour of Pokémon Legends: Z-A and am smitten with its chaotic battles
2 days ago
This Steam user just got an achievement for owning 40,000 games, and that's the least wild part
More from our brands
Elden Ring Euporia Build - Divine Warrior (Shadow of The Erdtree)
After 200 Hours In Fire Emblem: Three Houses, These Are The Questions I Need Answered In Fortune's Weave
Elden Ring: Best Obtainable Early Incantations
Lego Fortnite Odyssey: Complete Guide To Storm Dungeons
Epic Games Store: A Comprehensive List Of Every Free Game It's Had To Date
35 Video Games That Feel Like An Isekai Anime
The Best RPGs On Game Boy Advance, Ranked
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Marvel Zombies wastes the MCU's most promising superhero team
Crunchyroll's new manga app could revolutionize the market
Cronos: The New Dawn's cats bring its protagonist to life
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.