My Family Only Packed Carry-Ons for International Trip; Best Decision - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
My family of 4 only packed carry-ons for a monthlong international trip. We'll never travel with checked bags again.
By
Emily Bond
My family and I only packed carry-ons for our monthlong international trip, and we loved it.
Emily Bond
2025-09-25T13:02:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
This summer, my family of four traveled to the UK for a monthlong trip with only carry-ons.
I focused on packing light, staple pieces of clothing that we could wash at our Airbnbs.
Carry-ons added ease and flexibility to our travel experience, and I never want to check bags again.
As a parent to two young kids, traveling can be exhausting, and lugging around excess baggage is the last thing I want.
So, this summer, my husband and I decided to try only packing carry-ons — three backpacks, two small suitcases, one weekender bag, and one laptop bag — for our family's monthlong vacation to the UK.We navigated rainstorms in London, cooler nights in Cambridge, heatwaves, and the occasional delayed train, but never once felt as though we underpacked.
Here's how we did it, and why I'll never go back to checked bags again.Carry-ons offer ease and flexibility
My family packed seven carry-ons for our trip to the UK.
Emily Bond
Having taken many trips to the UK over the past four years, I've learned there are just too many stairs, cobblestone roads, narrow ticketing turnstiles, and other variables that can make massive luggage an absolute pain — especially with children.I also hate waiting in lines more than I have to, and avoiding baggage claim with jetlagged kids is a real bonus of flying exclusively with carry-ons.
Plus, we never have to worry about lost baggage, and we've found that carry-ons are typically easier to transport from one location to the next.Despite the length of our trip, we focused on packing for a week — not a month
I focused on packing light, staple pieces we could rewear throughout the trip.
Emily Bond
Throughout our trip, we booked Airbnbs with washing machines specifically so we could pack light.I stuck with a capsule wardrobe complete with staple pieces that were easy to wash and replace (if needed), and less likely to wrinkle, like white T-shirts and button-downs.
Then, for the kids, we packed mostly athletic shorts and plain T-shirts. On the flight, we had them wear sweatshirts and sweatpants that could double as pajamas. I also took advantage of packing shorts that could also be worn when swimming.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Since both of them are still young and their clothing doesn't take up much space, I was able to fit all of my things in the same small suitcase as theirs.Meanwhile, my husband packed his clothes in a weekender bag, and any remaining items were packed in the other suitcase.
We each had our own personal bags, too: backpacks for each of the kids with a few toys and gaming devices, a backpack for my husband's camera equipment, and a laptop bag for me, filled with our toiletries, a mini first-aid kit, and a smaller purse.I made sure the laptop bag was water resistant, so it could work great for everything from a day at the beach to a trip to the farmers market.I never felt like we didn't pack enough, and it made traveling a lot more fun for my whole familyIn my experience, packing light also forced me to be more in the moment.
Instead of worrying about what to wear or how to get heavy suitcases from one location to the next, I got to focus on the meaningful moments of our vacation — like eating a crab sandwich at Polzeath Beach with my kids and traveling from Cambridge to Hartest to see a 16th-century reenactment at Kentwell Hall.I enjoyed being more present, and to be honest, I don't think I'll ever travel with checked bags again.
Recommended video
Travel
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account