Enthusiast didn't like the Framework 13's mushy keyboard, so he built a custom version with a full mechanical keyboard — also added mechanical dials to control volume, brightness, and backlighting | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Networking
I swapped out my laptop's Wi-Fi 6E card for Wi-Fi 7 in minutes and gained 50% more performance for just $54 — here's how you can, too
Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Keyboards 2025: Full-size, TKL, Mini, and More
Keyboards
Best Wireless Keyboards 2025
Mechanical Keyboards
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
PC Building
Enthusiast builds an entire PC setup with Lego-style bricks
Gaming PCs
Intuitive modder builds the gaming PC he couldn't buy
Mechanical Keyboards
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Laptops
Framework Laptop 16 gets RTX 5070 graphics module and Zen 5 power in 2025 update
Mice
Enthusiast accidentally spends nearly $300 modifying 2017 Logitech MX Ergo trackball to fix flaws
PC Building
Passively cooled Ryzen AI Max+ 395 PC uses entire chassis as a 10-pound heatsink
CPUs
Enthusiast builds a fully functional CPU from old memory chips
Mechanical Keyboards
Norbauer's $8,000 keyboard waitlist climbs to 9 months
3D Printing
Noctua's 3D printable side panel quietens Framework's Desktop
Mechanical Keyboards
Severance keyboard phase-shifts from sci-fi to sci-fact with launch of a new Kickstarter campaign
Keyboards
Keychron K8 HE Special Edition Review: magnetic mid-century aesthetics
Laptops
Enthusiast didn't like the Framework 13's mushy keyboard, so he built a custom version with a full mechanical keyboard — also added mechanical dials to control volume, brightness, and backlighting
News
By
Aaron Klotz
published
15 September 2025
The mechanical keyboard lover didn't like the Framework 13's membrane keyboard. As a result, he made an entire laptop from scratch to fix the problem.
Comments (3)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: YouTube - flurples)
The team behind the Framework laptops has garnered much praise for building the world's first truly mass-market laptop devices that you can build yourself. However, for one keyboard enthusiast, the Framework 13's integrated membrane keyboard leaves much to be desired. Flurples on YouTube documented his journey on how he fixed this problem by creating an entirely custom 13-inch Framework laptop copycat with a mechanical keyboard inside.The laptop dubbed the Campus is a custom 13-inch laptop made from Framework 13 laptop components. The chassis was designed and made entirely from scratch and designed to accommodate a fully custom low-profile mechanical keyboard that Flurples built himself using KL Chalk switches.
I made a mechanical laptop - YouTube
Watch On
The main goal of the device was to improve the Framework 13's keyboard with a high-quality typing experience that only comes from mechanical keyboards. Membrane keyboards are notorious for their mushiness, making them frustrating to type on for certain typists. Mechanical keyboards, by contrast, have mechanical switches inside that vastly improve tactile feedback, making it easier to know if the key you pressed has been registered or not.
You may like
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
Enthusiast builds an entire PC setup with Lego-style bricks
Intuitive modder builds the gaming PC he couldn't buy
To make the Campus, Flurples had to build the keyboard and chassis himself. First, he grabbed the dimensions of the Framework 13 laptop's components so he could make a chassis that would work with the Framework 13's internals. Most of the device's specifications were published online; however, Flurples revealed that Framework's documentation was incomplete, forcing him to manually check the dimensions of more than half the components.After mapping out the internal components in Fusion, the keyboard enthusiast was able to create all the chassis components needed for the laptop to work. The chassis is split into three main components: the bottom chassis, the input cover, and the top cover. The bottom chassis is responsible for holding the internal components, including the battery and motherboard. The input cover is designed to hold the keyboard and trackpad, and the top cover is responsible for holding the display.Next was the keyboard — for this part of the build, Flurple had to design and build the low-profile mechanical keyboard entirely from scratch, including the PCB. The three features he wanted in the keyboard, namely low-profile switch compatibility, rotary encoder support, and a HHKB layout, do not exist in any current PCB designs. The PCB process involved building a diagram of the PCB in Fusion so that a third-party manufacturer could build it.For the switches, he went with KL Chalk switches for his laptop. According to him, these switches provide the best compromise of sound and feel while having a relatively short form factor. By comparison, the switches have nearly the same travel as a Cherry MX switch but at half the thickness.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.To further improve the typing experience, Flurples installed gasket mounts for the keyboard mounts that allegedly help keep the typing experience more consistent. It also prevents keys located on the outer part of the keyboard from feeling and sounding different from the keys located in the middle.To spice up the laptop, Flurples wanted to incorporate three physical dials on the right bottom section of the device to control brightness. Additionally, he also wanted to incorporate an internal USB hub into the laptop to expand the I/O functionality of the device. Something that is somewhat of a weak point on the Framework 13. Fluples had to make all of these additional components, including building the PCB for the USB hub from scratch.After completing all the necessary blueprints, Flurples had all the parts made, including making the PCB components by JLCPCB. Prep work included threading the screw holes on the chassis manually with a flat drill bit and installing 3D printed mounts with brass inserts for mounting the primary components. The aluminum metal used to make the chassis is soft, giving the aluminum screw holes a higher chance of stripping. The 3D-printed mounts with brass inserts are designed to prevent this issue altogether, allowing the laptop's components to be replaced without risk of the screw holes stripping.Other steps also had to be done, including building the keyboard, splicing wires for the speakers, and installing the display and wireless antennas. Once it was complete, flurples had an almost perfectly working Framework 13 copycat. The only problem was that his homemade USB hub did not work, sadly.The Campus laptop is another excellent demonstration of DIY craftsmanship and shows the sheer determination Flurples had to fix the keyboard on the Framework 13. This shouldn't come as a surprise since his channel is dedicated entirely to keyboard mods and custom keyboard builds. Most impressively, it shows how Framework's modular laptops can benefit DIYers, giving them the hardware needed to build their own custom laptops from scratch.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See more Laptops News
See all comments (3)
Aaron KlotzSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterAaron Klotz is a contributing writer for Tom’s Hardware, covering news related to computer hardware such as CPUs, and graphics cards.
Read more
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
Enthusiast builds an entire PC setup with Lego-style bricks
Intuitive modder builds the gaming PC he couldn't buy
BLUR Basecamp 75+ keyboard with potato-mode façade announced
Framework Laptop 16 gets RTX 5070 graphics module and Zen 5 power in 2025 update
Enthusiast accidentally spends nearly $300 modifying 2017 Logitech MX Ergo trackball to fix flaws
Latest in Laptops
Asus TUF Gaming F16 review: Strong gaming performance offset by skimpy SSD, short battery life
Asus is 'actively investigating' ROG gaming laptop stuttering woes
I got excited for the idea of sub-$1,000 gaming laptops with integrated graphics — but there are more than a few reasons why that's probably not happening
Apple prepping touchscreen OLED MacBook Pro for 2026
The Aero X16 gaming laptop has the Nvidia RTX 5060 and latest AMD hardware plus a lenient price point
Lenovo ThinkBook Plus Gen 6 Rollable review: Rolling in screen real estate
Latest in News
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production — could use TSMC's Arizona fab to avoid tariff fallout
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan
Samsung earns Nvidia's certification for its HBM3 memory
FSR 4 modded to run on RDNA 2 GPUs improves visuals by "leaps and bounds" but carries 10-20% less FPS
3 Comments
Comment from the forums
edzieba
KL ChalkKailh Choc.
Reply
MobileJAD
I just want to know why so many keyboards are no longer including the function keys anymore? I use them when I am doing stuff in Linux and all of the FPS games I play use F5 and F9 as quick save and quick load keys...
Oh well, obviously the person designed that keyboard around their own needs and not for others, and while I do not have the budget for anything related to Frames laptops, lack of function keys aside, everything else about that laptop is just gorgeous, I really love the design of older 80's, 90's and early 2000's laptop designs, volume control wheels included.
Reply
nickthaskater
MobileJAD said:I just want to know why so many keyboards are no longer including the function keys anymore? I use them when I am doing stuff in Linux and all of the FPS games I play use F5 and F9 as quick save and quick load keys...
Oh well, obviously the person designed that keyboard around their own needs and not for others, and while I do not have the budget for anything related to Frames laptops, lack of function keys aside, everything else about that laptop is just gorgeous, I really love the design of older 80's, 90's and early 2000's laptop designs, volume control wheels included.Re: F keys - they're redundant and easily accessed through a layer just like any other secondary or tertiary symbol. You can always set the modifier key to toggle rather than press if you need sustained use of the F keys, or simply re-bind them to F as default.
I do finance work and use a 40% keyboard - no numrow or F row. Typing on it is faster, easier and more ergonomic than typing on my full-size IBM Model F.
Reply
View All 3 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.