Ranked: 10 Most Affordable US States and 10 Least Affordable - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Real Estate
The 10 most affordable states in the US in 2025 — and the 10 least affordable
By
Kristine Villarroel
California was ranked the least affordable US state.
Marek Masik/Shutterstock
2025-09-15T17:24:17Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Prices of groceries and housing are going up across the US.
US News & World Report ranked all US states based on their affordability.
It ranked Arkansas as the most affordable state in the US, and California as the least affordable.
From groceries to housing, living is getting more expensive, but some states are feeling the effects of rising prices more than others.While states like Hawaii and California are seeing increases in housing costs, others like Florida are experiencing falling real-estate prices thanks to rising inventory and insurance costs.
US News & World Report recently ranked all 50 US states by affordability, using US Bureau of Economic Analysis data to determine each state's housing affordability and cost of living.The list is just one part of US News & World Report's comparison of US states, which it ranks by categories including opportunity, education, healthcare, and fiscal stability, among others. These categories ultimately contribute to its best states overall ranking. For the full report and rankings, see here.Here are the 10 most affordable states in the US, followed by the 10 least affordable, per US News & World Report.
The below list also indicates where each state landed on the report's best states overall ranking, and includes the median income in each state, using the most recent data from the US Census Bureau's American Community Survey, which estimated median incomes in 2024.
1. Arkansas
Arkansas was ranked the most affordable US state.
Sean Pavone/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 1Housing affordability ranking: 3Median household income: $62,106In US News & World Report's ranking of best states overall — of which affordability is one consideration — Arkansas comes 44th.
2. Mississippi
Mississippi was ranked as the second-most affordable state in the US.
Sean Pavone/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 2Housing affordability ranking: 1Median household income: $59,127In the best states overall ranking, Mississippi fares less well, ranking 48th.
3. West Virginia
West Virginia was ranked as the third-most affordable US state.
Mihai_Andritoiu/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 8Housing affordability ranking: 2Median household income: $60,798West Virginia was ranked 46th in the best states overall ranking.
4. South Dakota
South Dakota took fourth place for the most affordable US states.
Jacob Boomsma/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 3Housing affordability ranking: 6Median household income: $76,881South Dakota came 8th in the overall best states ranking.
5. Oklahoma
Oklahoma was ranked fifth on the most affordable states list.
Sean Pavone/Getty Images/iStockphoto
Cost of living ranking: 4Housing affordability ranking: 7Median household income: $66,148The report ranked Oklahoma the 42nd best state overall.
6. Louisiana
Louisiana took the sixth spot for the most affordable state.
Jacob Boomsma/Getty Images
Cost of living ranking: 5Housing affordability ranking: 8Median household income: $60,986The state was ranked last on the best states overall list.
7. Iowa
Iowa was ranked as the seventh-most affordable state.
Jacob Boomsma/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 7Housing affordability ranking: 9Median household income: $75,501Iowa is the 14th best state overall, per US News & World Report.
8. Alabama
Alabama was the eighth-most affordable state in the ranking.
Sean Pavone/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 10Housing affordability ranking: 4Median household income: $66,659However, Alabama comes 45th in the best states overall ranking.
9. North Dakota
North Dakota took ninth place for the most affordable state ranking.
Jacob Boomsma/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 6Housing affordability ranking: 11Median household income: $77,871Oregon is the 12th best state overall, when considering all metrics, per the report.
10. Kentucky
Kentucky was ranked as the 10th-most affordable US state.
ChrisBoswell/Getty Images
Cost of living ranking: 14Housing affordability ranking: 5Median household income: $64,526Kentucky is the 39th best state overall.
41. Maryland
Maryland was ranked as the 10th-least affordable US state.
Dee Liu/Getty Images
Cost of living ranking: 42Housing affordability ranking: 42Median household income: $102,905Maryland was named the 20th best state in the report's overall rankings.
42. New Hampshire
New Hampshire is the ninth-least affordable state in the US.
NayaDadara/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 44Housing affordability ranking: 40Median household income: $99,782The state was also ranked as the second-best state overall by US News & World Report.
43. Colorado
Colorado was ranked as the eighth least affordable state in the US.
Aerial_Views/Getty Images
Cost of living ranking: 37Housing affordability ranking: 48Median household income: $97,113Colorado was named the 11th best state overall by the report.
44. Florida
Florida was ranked the seventh-least affordable US state.
Jeffrey Greenberg/Universal Images Group via Getty Images
Cost of living ranking: 40Housing affordability ranking: 44Median household income: $77,735Florida ranked 6th best state overall when considering affordability and other factors.
45. New York
New York was ranked as the sixth-least affordable state in the US.
Evgeny Karandaev/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 45Housing affordability ranking: 43Median household income: $85,820New York was named the 22nd best state overall.
46. Washington
Washington is the fifth-least affordable state in the US.
Sean Pavone/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 47Housing affordability ranking: 45Median household income: $99,389Washington came 10th in the best states overall ranking.
47. Massachusetts
Massachusetts fell in fourth place for the least affordable US states.
Cavan Images/Getty Images/Cavan Images RF
Cost of living ranking: 46Housing affordability ranking: 47Median household income: $104,828US News & World Report named Massachusetts the 9th best state in its overall ranking.
48. Hawaii
Hawaii is the third-least affordable US state.
James Kirkikis/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 48Housing affordability ranking: 46Median household income: $100,745The state ranked 28th in the overall ranking.
49. New Jersey
New Jersey was ranked the second-least affordable state in the US.
FotosForTheFuture/Shutterstock
Cost of living ranking: 49Housing affordability ranking: 49Median household income: $104,294New Jersey came 19th in US News & World Report's best states overall ranking.
50. California
California was ranked as the least affordable out of all US states.
Michael Lee/Getty Images
Cost of living ranking: 50Housing affordability ranking: 50Median household income: $100,149In the best states overall ranking, California is ranked No. 37.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account