This fantastic Steam game that's actually 50 games in one is down to its lowest price ever
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This fantastic Steam game that's actually 50 games in one is down to its lowest price ever
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 1, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Have you ever bought one of those games that advertise themselves as multiple games in one? If so, you've probably discovered the hard way that the included titles...aren't so great. But what can you expect? When developers have to squeeze a ton of games into one big collection, something has to give. Well, it turns out that there's one game out there that does it right. It's called UFO 50, and you'll find that each and every one of its 50 games is made with love and care. And if you don't believe me, UFO 50 is down to its lowest price on Steam, so you can give it a try for less.
UFO 50 is now 25% off on Steam
If you've never heard of UFO 50 before, it's a collection of 50 different games, and you can play every one. UFO 50 adds a little bit of additional spice by acting as a collection of games released by the fictional developer UFO Soft between 1982 and 1989. In this alternate timeline, UFO Soft releases three consoles, the LX-I, LX-II, and LX-III, and you'll notice that the games within the collection get more graphically intense when you play games intended for later consoles. I want to reiterate that the 50 included games aren't just a large number of shovelware titles created to inflate the collection count. In fact, here's how the Steam page describes them:
50 BRAND-NEW GAMES - These are NOT minigames or microgames! Although the size of each game varies, every one is a complete experience, from its opening title screen to its ending credits. Some are small arcade-style games but there are also larger open-world adventures and a JRPG that could take many hours to beat.
My personal picks are Party House and Porgy. Party House is a cool deckbuilder-esque game where you try to arrange the perfect house party. There's a lot of balancing resources, building your deck to fit the current objective, and negating any noise your party makes; if things get too loud, the police are called! Meanwhile, Porgy is very much a Metroidvania but underwater. You play as a submarine exploring the depths around you, and there are a ton of secret passages and obstacles to get around. Some of them you can do right away, while others require you to plunder the sea for power-ups and upgrades so you can dive even deeper. If you'd like to give it a shot yourself, UFO 50 is currently 25% off, the lowest we've seen it go on Steam.
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
I tried replacing Chrome bookmarks with NotebookLM, and my browser no longer screams chaos
Sep 9, 2025
The most alive and immersive open-world maps ever created
Sep 10, 2025
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
Sep 9, 2025
I discovered this open-source productivity app by accident, and it ended up replacing Notion for me
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
3 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
6 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
23 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I used Microsoft Office, Photoshop, and more on Linux with WinApps — here's how it went
I use these Microsoft Teams tricks for flawless communication
Even with the world's highest electricity prices, my high-end PC isn't the energy hog I expected
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.