Personal Finance Reviews by Motley Fool Money, a Motley Fool Brand
Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility
This device is too small
If you're on a Galaxy Fold, consider unfolding your phone or viewing it in full screen to best optimize your experience.
Skip to main content
Advertiser Disclosure
Many of the offers that appear on this site are from companies from which The Motley Fool receives compensation. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear) and may influence which products we write about, but our product ratings are not influenced by compensation. We do not include all companies or offers available in the marketplace.
|    Accessibility Options
Credit Cards
Credit Cards
Best Of Lists
Best Credit Cards of September 2025
Best Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Best Credit Card Sign-Up Bonuses
Best Travel Credit Cards
By Issuer
Best American Express Cards
Best Chase Cards
Best Discover Cards
All Credit Card Reviews
Credit Card Tools
Compare Credit Cards
Credit Card Interest Calculator
Balance Transfer Calculator
Credit Card Guides
Credit Cards 101: A Beginner's Guide
Credit Card Guides
Credit Card Comparisons
Credit Card Articles
Banks
Banks
Best Of Lists
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Checking Accounts
Best CD Rates
Best Money Market Accounts
Bank Reviews
SoFi Checking & Savings Review
American Express High Yield Savings Review
Capital One 360 Performance Savings Review
All Bank Reviews
Knowledge & Tools
Bank Account Comparisons
Emergency Fund Calculator
All Banking Resources
Banking Guides
Guide to Banking
How to Choose a Bank
Types of Bank Accounts
All Banking Articles
Brokers
Brokers
Best Of Lists
Best Stock Brokers of September 2025
Best Free Stock Trading Apps
Best IRA Accounts
Best Options Trading Platforms
Best for Beginners
Best Stock Brokers for Beginners
Best Investment Apps for Beginners
Top Reviews
Fidelity Review
SoFi Review
Robinhood Review
All Brokerage Reviews
Guides
How to Choose a Brokerage Account
How to Open a Brokerage Account
Guide to Brokerage Fees
All Brokerage Articles
Crypto
Crypto
Best Of Lists
Best Crypto Exchanges
Best Bitcoin Exchanges
Best Ethereum Exchanges
Top Reviews
Coinbase Review
Gemini Review
Crypto.com Review
All Crypto Reviews
Knowledge
A Complete Guide to Cryptocurrencies
Types of Cryptocurrencies
How to Invest in Crypto
All Cryptocurrency Articles
Mortgages
Mortgages
Best Of Lists
Best Mortgage Lenders of September 2025
Best Refinance Lenders
Best Mortgage Lenders for First-Time Homebuyers
Best Home Equity Loan Lenders
Best Mortgage Rates
Today's Best Mortgage Rates
Today's Best Refinance Rates
15-Year Mortgage Rates
30-Year Mortgage Rates
Mortgage Tools
Mortgage Calculator
Get Pre-Approved For a Mortgage
Guide to Mortgages
Guides
Mortgage Lender Reviews
First-Time Home Buyer Guide
All Mortgage Articles
Insurances
Insurances
Auto Insurance
Best Auto Insurance
Auto Insurance Reviews
Auto Insurance Articles
All Auto Insurance Resources
Homeowners Insurance
Best Homeowners Insurance
Homeowners Insurance Reviews
Homeowners Insurance Articles
All Homeowners Insurance Resources
Life Insurance
Life Insurance Reviews
Life Insurance Articles
All Life Insurance Resources
Loans
Loans
Best Of Lists
Best Personal Loans of September 2025
Hardship Loans
Best Debt Consolidation Loans
Best Personal Loans for Bad Credit
Lender Reviews
Upstart Personal Loans Review
Citi Personal Loans Review
All Personal Loans Reviews
Personal Loan Tools
Loan Payoff Calculator
How Much Personal Loan Can You Get?
What Credit Score Do You Need?
Personal Loan Guides
How to Get Pre-Approved for a Loan
How to Apply for a Personal Loan
Balance Transfers vs. Personal Loans
All Personal Loan Articles
About Us
About Us
Knowledge
Personal Finance Guides
Market Research & Insights
2025 Award Winners
All Motley Fool Money Articles
Motley Fool Money
About Motley Fool Money
How We Make Money
Editorial Integrity
Our Rating Methodology
The Motley Fool
The Motley Fool
Stock Market News
Motley Fool Premium Services
Motley Fool Money Podcast
Search Icon
Click here to search
Search Icon
Click here to search
Search For
Financial Freedom Starts Here
Expert Tips, Reviews, Tools, and Special Offers To Help You Get The Most Out Of Your Money!
Credit Cards
High-Yield Savings
Stock Brokers
Personal Loans
Mortgage Lenders
Refi Lenders
The 2025 Award Winners!
Narrow down your financial options and get ready for your smartest year yet with this year’s list of best credit cards, bank accounts, and more.
View All Winners
Join 35,000+ Americans getting smarter with their money — one email at a time
Get expert advice, actionable strategies, and exclusive offers that help you save more and spend with confidence.
Sign Up
By submitting your email address, you consent to us sending you money tips along with products and services that we think might interest you.
You can unsubscribe at any time. Please read our
Privacy Statement and
Terms & Conditions.
Our Contribution
The number of people we're helping become smarter, happier, and richer.
Must Reads
Recent
Research
Podcast
I Write About CDs for a Living. These Are the 3 I'd Recommend to Friends and Family
Joel O'Leary
Sept. 22, 2025
CD rates are still strong, but not for long. Here are three high-yield CDs I'd recommend to anyone who wants to lock in returns today.
Keeping $10,000 in a Bank of America Savings Account? You Could Be Earning $380 More a Year
Ryan Wilcox
Sept. 22, 2025
Bank of America savings accounts earn next to nothing in interest. Here's how easy it is to earn hundreds more with a high-yield savings account.
Forget the Sapphire Reserve -- Amex Platinum Is the Ultimate Travel Card in 2025
Joel O'Leary
Sept. 22, 2025
From lounge access to hotel status and rideshare perks, here's how the top luxury travel cards stack up for frequent flyers.
Here's How to Use the Amex Platinum's New Resy Credit
James McClenathen
Sept. 22, 2025
The Amex Platinum offers up to $100 per quarter for purchases at Resy restaurants. Learn how to make sure you get the full $400 a …
Amex Platinum Card Annual Fee Increase: Here's What You Get
Jake FitzGerald
Sept. 22, 2025
The Amex Platinum Card now costs $895 a year. Find out what new perks and credits you get for the higher fee.
5 Habits That Help the Rich Stay Rich
Joel O'Leary
Sept. 22, 2025
Wealthy people follow consistent, strategic money habits. Here's what they do, and how you can follow their playbook.
How Many Americans Own Certificates of Deposits?
Jack Caporal
Aug. 26, 2025
Only 6.5% of Americans own CDs, with a median value of $26,000. Explore CD ownership statistics by age, income, and race, plus today's best CD …
Credit Card Rewards Statistics: Who Earns the Most Points?
Jack Caporal
Aug. 4, 2025
Americans earned $41 billion in credit card rewards in 2022, but left $6 billion unredeemed. See who earns the most, who forfeits the most, and …
Credit Card Late Fee Statistics: Who Pays Most Often?
Jack Caporal
Aug. 1, 2025
Credit card late fees cost Americans $14.5 billion in 2022. Younger, low-income, and subprime borrowers are hit hardest. See who pays and how to avoid …
How Many Americans Have a Credit Card With An Annual Fee?
Jack Caporal
July 30, 2025
19% of Americans use a credit card with an annual fee, rising to 24% for millennials and 30% for high earners, Federal Reserve data shows.
The Median Monthly Mortgage Payment in 2025 by State, City, and More
Jack Caporal
Sept. 12, 2025
The median monthly mortgage payment is $2,186 -- read on for mortgage payment statistics by city, state, income, and more.
81% of Americans Have Credit Cards, but They Aren't Distributed Equally
Jack Caporal
July 1, 2025
Dive into credit card ownership statistics, including rejection rates, broken down by age, income, and race and ethnicity.
The Great Rule Breakers Healthcare Debate: Progyny or Hims & Hers?
Sep. 22, 2025
Which is the better healthcare Breaker? Alicia Alfiere, Sanmeet Deo, and Tim Beyers pit Progyny against Hims & Hers. Leave a comment to get in …
Interview with Karat Packaging CEO Alan Yu: From Boba Tea Shop to Packaging Powerhouse
Sep. 21, 2025
What began as a single Boba tea shop in 2000 has transformed into a leading supplier of sustainable packaging for local startups to national brands …
Retirement Tools and Affording Impulse Purchases
Sep. 20, 2025
Retirement is largely a math game, and calculators can help you crunch the numbers. Sean Gates of Motley Fool Wealth Management joins Robert Brokamp to …
Big Tech Is Fun Again & The Fed Speaks
Sep. 19, 2025
Meta introduced a new pair of AI-powered glasses, Google announced a partnership with PayPal and AI updates to Chrome, and the Federal Reserve cut interest …
Nvidia and Intel Make a $5 Billion Bargain
Sep. 18, 2025
Intel has benefitted from multiple major investments in 2025 but perhaps none more headline-grabbing than this: Nvidia and Intel agree to co-develop products for data …
EV and Autonomy State of the Union
Sep. 17, 2025
Autonomy is advancing quickly with Waymo leading the charge, but where are there opportunities for investors? And we discuss the future for Rivian and Tesla …
View All Articles
Why You Can Trust Us
We’re your money concierge. We cut through the noise and guide you to what we think are some of the best products and services that can make your money work harder for you.
Our Golden Rule
Scrutinize the Fine Print
Unbiased Reviews
More About Us
Don't miss The Motley Fool's award-winning podcast
Daily investing and financial coverage delivered straight to your ears!
Listen to the Podcast
In Depth Research
With that in mind, it might not be surprising that over half of our respondents had maxed out a credit card. The only group that saw a number under 50% was those with a self-reported net worth of $5 to $10 million.
Jack Caporal, Research Expert
59% of Americans have a cash back credit card and 49% have a travel rewards card.
Millionaires are less concerned with credit card interest rates than the average American. Twenty-six percent of millionaires cited interest rates as the most important factor when picking a credit card compared
to 40% of Americans.
Read Full Report
We're firm believers in the Golden Rule, which is why editorial opinions are ours alone and have not been previously reviewed, approved, or endorsed by included advertisers. Motley Fool Money does not cover all offers on the market. Motley Fool Money is 100% owned and operated by The Motley Fool. Our knowledgeable team of personal finance editors and analysts are employed by The Motley Fool and held to the same set of publishing standards and editorial integrity while maintaining professional separation from the analysts and editors on other Motley Fool brands.
Terms may apply to offers listed on this page.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Share this page
Facebook Icon
This icon shares the page you are on via Facebook
Blue Twitter Icon
Share this website with Twitter
LinkedIn Icon
This image links to share the page over LinkedIn.
Email Icon
Share this website with email
Join 35,000+ Americans getting smarter with their money -- one email at a time
Get expert advice, actionable strategies, and exclusive offers that help you save more and spend with confidence.
Sign Up
By submitting your email address, you consent to us sending you money tips along with products and services that we think might interest you. You can unsubscribe at any time. Please read our Privacy Statement and Terms &
Conditions.
Motley Fool Money is a Motley Fool service that rates and reviews essential products for your everyday money matters.
Facebook Icon
This icon shares the page you are on via Facebook
Blue Twitter Icon
Share this website with Twitter
btn_instagram-yellow
Copyright © 2018 - 2025 Motley Fool Money. All rights reserved.
About Motley Fool Money
About Us
Contact Us
Newsroom
How We Make Money
Editorial Integrity
Ratings Methodology
RSS Feed
About The Motley Fool
Legal
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility Policy
Terms and Conditions
Copyright, Trademark and Patent Information
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Learn
Credit Cards
Banking
Brokerage
Cryptocurrency
Mortgages
Insurance
Loans
Recent Articles
Back to The Motley Fool