Best PC Gaming Headset for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechGaming PC Gaming
Best PC Gaming Headset for 2025
A versatile gaming headset makes for a better gaming experience. Here are the top options from SteelSeries, Logitech, Razer, HyperX and more.
Our Experts
Written by
Lori Grunin
Article updated on May 7, 2024 at 8:00 PM PDT
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats. Expertise Photography | PCs and laptops | Gaming and gaming accessories
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
High-quality sound makes for a good headset, but when it comes to gaming headsets, you want a lot more features. A good example is directional audio, which makes PC gaming headsets more useful and immersive. It lets you actually hear enemies moving nearby and tell where the sound came from. Microphones are another great addition, letting you play multiplayer games more effectively. The best gaming headsets will have these features and more. Our Picks
Analog wired headset pick
Nacon Rig 500 Pro HX
Jump to details
$65 at Walmart
Jump to details
Top wireless gaming headset for PC and Xbox SteelSeries Arctis 9 and 9X
Jump to details
$190 at Amazon
Jump to details
Most comfortable wired headset under $100 Razer BlackShark V2
Jump to details
$39 at Amazon
Jump to details
Longest battery life and comfort winner HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless
Jump to details
$200 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Top gaming headset with Bluetooth under $100 Corsair HS70
Jump to details
$100 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Wired gaming headset that's a little different Meters Level Up
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Wireless headset for champion chatters under $150 Logitech G733 LightSpeed
Jump to details
$111 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Reasonably priced dual-wireless headset pick for PC and Xbox Microsoft Xbox Wireless Headset
Jump to details
$90 at Microsoft
Jump to details
The pricey choice for PC and PS5 Sony InZone H9
Jump to details
$298 at Walmart
Jump to details
Show 4 more
HEADPHONE DEALS OF THE WEEK
Corsair Virtuoso Max Wireless Gaming Headset, Carbon (Revival Series):  $150 (save $180)
Bose QuietComfort Wireless Noise Cancelling Headphones:  $209 (save $140)
Sony WH-1000XM4 Wireless Noise Cancelling Over-Ear Headphones:  $198 (save $150)
Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless ANC Over-Ear Headphones (Black):  $300 (save $151)
Sony Ult Wear Noise Canceling Wireless Headphones (Off White):  $150 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best PC Gaming Headset for 2025
Analog wired headset pick
Top wireless gaming headset for PC and Xbox
Most comfortable wired headset under $100
Longest battery life and comfort winner
Top gaming headset with Bluetooth under $100
Wired gaming headset that's a little different
Wireless headset for champion chatters under $150
Reasonably priced dual-wireless headset pick for PC and Xbox
The pricey choice for PC and PS5
Other notable gaming headsets we've tested
Why do I want a 'wireless' headset rather than a Bluetooth gaming headset?
How do I hear myself talk?
More gaming recommendations
PC gaming headsets don't have to be just for gaming. They can be great for folks that spend a ton of time on video calls. You too can be that person wearing the huge headset in meetings, getting the best audio for work and play without blowing a ton of money.Analog gaming headsets, which connect via 3.5mm jacks, can work with almost any device -- a gaming PC, a PS5, an Xbox Series X or Series S, a Nintendo Switch, and so on -- in addition to regular Windows PCs. However, depending on the hardware, you may not be able to get the best out of these wired headsets. Features like surround sound, mic monitoring (aka sidetone), and other capabilities need software and a USB connection to function, limiting them to PCs. If you want console-specific features, you might want to get headsets designed specifically for them. For example, the Xbox Series X and S need Microsoft-sanctioned dongles, but they also work with Bluetooth. If you're looking for those, you can find specific recommendations on our lists of the best Xbox gaming headsets and best PS5 gaming headsets.
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Analog wired headset pick
Nacon Rig 500 Pro HX
The first time I saw the Rig series of gaming headsets -- well before the brand was bought by gaming and accessory company Nacon -- I was so turned off by the aesthetic I didn't even take the headset out of the box. I powered through this time, and although I'm still not fond of the appearance, it's turned out to be one of my go-to headsets in why-doesn't-my-pc-see-my-wireless-headset emergencies. You get a lot for the money. It's comfortable and relatively light with good 3D audio, pretty decent mic quality, good noise isolation and an inline volume control that's neither too far down the cable or too far up. The mic is both removable and flip-up, which you rarely see at this price.The last generation of the headset got complaints about build quality, but I've been using it for months with no issues. Its flat rubber cable is a step up from competitors: Flatness makes it tangle-free and less susceptible to damage when I roll over it with my chair. To adjust size, there's a combination of three notches on the headband -- you basically pop out the earcup to move it, so if it comes under stress it just pops out -- and a basic suspension band.It doesn't come with a headphone/mic splitter cable, a common omission in budget headsets, and the shortish cable isn't removable, but it's a good length if you're going to plug it into a controller for use with the Xbox. You do get a two-year activation card for a Dolby Atmos subscription (at least the last time I looked) for Windows 10/11 and Xbox One or later.   ... Show more
Get it now
$65 at Walmart
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Top wireless gaming headset for PC and Xbox
SteelSeries Arctis 9 and 9X
This excellent wireless headset supports both Bluetooth and 2.4GHz connections for simultaneous lag-free gaming and audio monitoring, with a bunch of excellent features. You can use it wired or while it charges over USB, and it's got a Discord-certified noise-canceling retractable microphone, swivel earcups so it can sit on your shoulders and support for DTS Headphone:X v2.0 and Windows Spatial audio. Its pucklike dongle has an analog 3.5mm input for game audio and a line out to the headset, which expands its usefulness. My only significant quibble with the Arctis 9X is it feels a little too tight on my head (which is odd, since all the other Arctis models feel fine). Its big brother, the SteelSeries Arctis Pro Wireless, gets rave reviews as well, but it's significantly more expensive as well as relatively old; it's due for an upgrade and I think it's a bit overkill for many gamers, anyway.  ... Show more
Get it now
$190 at Amazon
Learn more
SteelSeries Arctis 9 and 9X review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Most comfortable wired headset under $100
Razer BlackShark V2
These aren't the absolute best in gaming headsets, but the newest generation of Razer's BlackShark headsets -- the wired Razer BlackShark V2 ($100) and V2 X ($60) and the Wireless V2 Pro ($180) -- are well-rounded options if you need a single headset for both work and play. I prefer the V2 over the V2 X for its extra PC features, like support for THX Spatial Audio, microphone settings in Razer's Synapse utility and a USB dongle. Plus, it has a better cord, a removable mic with foam cover and breathable fabric on the earcup padding. If you're on a tighter budget, the analog-only V2 X has all your platforms covered for half the price.  ... Show more
Get it now
$39 at Amazon
$44 at Walmart
$38 at Best Buy
Learn more
Razer BlackShark V2 review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Longest battery life and comfort winner
HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless
This PC- and PS5-compatible wireless headset not only features HyperX's superb comfort and excellent sound, its actual battery life runs into the hundreds of hours, even if you discount the company's 300-hour rating. And it supports DTS Headphone:X for virtual surround. The wireless range didn't test as well as the Cloud II Wireless and the lack of other connection types disappoints for the money, but if your top three criteria are battery life, comfort and sound quality, this hits the trifecta.  ... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Best Buy
Learn more
HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless review
Josh Goldman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Josh Goldman/CNET
Top gaming headset with Bluetooth under $100
Corsair HS70
It's useful to be able to monitor your phone (or other audio) via Bluetooth with your headset while simultaneously using a separate, lag-free connection for gaming, but that capability frequently adds a premium onto the price. By adding Bluetooth to an otherwise wired headset -- usually it's only available in wireless models -- Corsair manages to avoid that trap. The stereo HS70 supports USB for laptops and desktops, along with 3.5mm analog cabling to connect to all consoles. The battery is rated for about 30 hours, and the noise-canceling microphone is detachable. The company's iCue app for Windows or MacOS to access EQ presets or adjust mic and sidetone levels. Though it's not as pricey as most gaming headsets with Bluetooth on the side, it is relatively expensive for an otherwise basic model. And oddly, the HS70 Wireless, which lacks Bluetooth but incorporates a 2.4GHz connection, is the same price.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Best Buy
$85 at Amazon
Learn more
Corsair HS70 review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Wired gaming headset that's a little different
Meters Level Up
The Level Up's comfy, retro-ish style -- with on-earcup illuminated VU meters, full-bodied stereo and 7.1 virtual surround sound for music and gaming -- leads me to recommend it for people who aren't necessarily looking for cutting-edge gaming features, but who want something cool and different. You can use it with any 3.5mm-jack-bearing console or system, but you don't get the customizable surround setup unless you're connected via USB on Windows, since it requires a proprietary app.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$68 at B&H Photo-Video
Learn more
Meters Level Up review
Photo Gallery 1/1
Wireless headset for champion chatters under $150
Logitech G733 LightSpeed
The G733's generally an above-average lightweight wireless gaming headset, but it's got one advantage over much of the competition: an excellent mic backed by a high level of customizability via Blue Yeti-powered software.  ... Show more
Get it now
$111 at Best Buy
$160 at Target
$140 at Lenovo
Learn more
Logitech G733 LightSpeed review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
Reasonably priced dual-wireless headset pick for PC and Xbox
Microsoft Xbox Wireless Headset
Even though it has some design and feature quirks, for $90, the Xbox Wireless Headset is a good deal. Simultaneous wireless and Bluetooth and chat-mix balance are usually only found in more expensive models, so here the performance and sound quality are worth the money.  ... Show more
Get it now
$90 at Microsoft
Learn more
Microsoft Xbox Wireless Headset review
Lori Grunin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lori Grunin/CNET
The pricey choice for PC and PS5
Sony InZone H9
If you feel like spending almost as much on a headset as you did for your console, Sony's own InZone H9 (the new PC-targeted line from its electronics division rather than the PlayStation folks) delivers great audio quality in an exceptionally comfortable design that matches the materials of the PS5. It has decent, non-fatiguing noise cancellation, a natural-sounding mic, solid battery life and simultaneous Bluetooth and dongle connections on both platforms. Bluetooth behaved a bit wonkily when I tested it, so if it matters to you, check user reviews before you buy to see if other people have encountered it.  ... Show more
Get it now
$298 at Walmart
$300 at Best Buy
$298 at B&H Photo-Video
Learn more
Sony InZone H9 review
Other notable gaming headsets we've tested
HyperX Cloud II Wireless ($81): This is an excellent 7.1 surround headset that features HyperX's signature comfortable fit, which I ended up bumping from the list in favor of the Cloud Alpha Wireless because the Alpha's battery life is a huge distinguishing feature. The Cloud II Wireless does have a better signal range as tested, though, and you can use it wirelessly with a PS4/PS5 and Nintendo Switch as well as a PC.Read our HyperX Cloud 2 Wireless review.
Razer Barracuda X ($80): The performance, audio quality, and design of the Barracuda X make it an excellent choice for cross-platform players. I wouldn't recommend the headset for cloud gaming, though. Razer refreshed it in 2022, boosting battery life to a rated 50 hours and adding Bluetooth for the same price. I haven't tested the updated model.  Read our Razer Barracuda X review.
SteelSeries Arctis Prime ($48): The budget, cross-platform wireless Arctis Prime performs well, but if you're sensitive to fit, weight and other design-related considerations, I suggest you give it a heads-on before buying. Read our SteelSeries Arctis Prime review.
Razer Kraken V3 HyperSense ($90): Razer's updated haptic feedback debuted in this gaming headset -- it basically vibrates when the signal contains certain frequencies, in order to provide positional information and a more immersive experience. The new version improves upon its predecessor found in the Razer Nari line by being able to work without specific support within a game and the ability to choose from two intensities. It has the same great sound quality as the other Razer headsets with the TriForce Titanium drivers. But I suspect the haptic feedback is an acquired taste, though. Thus far, I've found it more distracting than immersive. And without game support it's too random; for instance, bass-voiced narration rumbles in a disconcerting way and it kicks in when I have mic monitoring on. Other issues I've had include it being a little too tight (especially with glasses), its THX Spatial Surround falling a bit short of other virtual surround technologies I've used, and the braided but thick cable tends to kink. I haven't given up on it, though, and am giving it another shot with its higher-end sibling, the Kraken V3 Pro.
EPOS Audio H3Pro Hybrid ($144): This former top-lister is a somewhat controversial choice overall, but even a lot of people who don't like the Epos gaming headsets in general tend to agree that they have great stereo audiophile-quality sound. Given Epos' kinship with audio veteran Sennheiser -- and unfortunately, the Sennheiser-level high prices -- one expects no less. I really like the H3Pro Hybrid headset, though, for gamers who don't need surround sound. The biggest problem with it is the barely adequate range the dongle gives it (about 16 feet in my testing) which may be a deal-killer for a lot of people. The software's kind of lackluster as well. But it's comfortable, sleeker than your usual gaming headset, has solid ANC and supports simultaneous Bluetooth and 2.4GHz connections. More recently reviewed models:Sony InZone H3 ($100)Razer Barracuda Pro ($250)SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless ($350)Gaming headset FAQs
Why do I want a 'wireless' headset rather than a Bluetooth gaming headset?
Bluetooth lets you connect to most mobile devices as well as PCs and laptops, which makes it really convenient. But it's also low-bandwidth and slow, which means it may compress the audio (and thus make it sound worse) and introduce delays between the device and the headset. The delays, referred to as latency, can range from just annoying to game-ruining, depending upon how important the audio and your chat is to responding quickly.Bluetooth also requires that there be a pretty small distance between the headset and device it's connected to. The best wireless gaming headsets come with a USB wireless adapter, usually 2.4GHz, to create a dedicated, fast, high-bandwidth channel between the headset and the system, and one that can maintain the connection over a larger distance.  ... Show more
How do I hear myself talk?
The ability to hear yourself talk while you chat is referred to as "mic monitoring" or "sidetone," and some people find it essential for more natural conversation; I find that without it I tend to shout, especially if the earcups suppress a lot of external noise. You generally need to have a USB connection -- either a wireless dongle or wired -- in order to get mic monitoring to work, and many times it's dependent on the software utility that's provided by the manufacturer, at the very least to control the volume of the monitoring so you don't blast yourself with your own voice.  ... Show more
More gaming recommendations
Best Gaming Laptop for 2024Best Cheap Gaming Laptop Under $1,000 for 2024Best Gaming PC for 2024Best Gaming Headset for PS5 in 2024Best Xbox Gaming Headset for 2024Best Internet Providers for Gaming in 2024
About the Author
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice
I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats.
Read full bio
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.