The Fed's Dot Plot Shows One Member Wants More Interest Rate Cuts - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Economy
One Fed member wants to cut interest rates like crazy this year
By
Allie Kelly
The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the first time this year.
Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
2025-09-17T20:20:39Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The Federal Open Market Committee cut rates by a quarter percent due to slow job growth.
The Fed's projections show the median member expects another two cuts this year.
But one participant wanted the equivalent of five cuts over the next two meetings.
One of these dots is not like the other.
The Federal Open Market Committee announced a rate cut Wednesday, its first policy change of the year. The quarter-point reduction is in alignment with expectations and a reaction to slow growth in the job market and stubborn inflation.Alongside the rate cut, the Fed released the FOMC members' economic projections for the next few years, including where they project interest rates to end up. The median member expected another half percentage point of reductions by the end of the year — or one normal-sized quarter-percent cut at each of the two remaining Fed meetings.
But one member called for something more ambitious, outlining a full 1.25 percentage points of cuts, or the equivalent of five typical cuts.If the Fed were to move forward with that member's suggested cuts, it would require multiple exceptionally large moves through the rest of the year, which are typically reserved for major economic downturns.In addition to the strong downward outlier, one FOMC member projected that rates would be back above 4.25% by the end of 2025. That would mean walking back Wednesday's rate cut and actually hiking rates by a quarter percent from where they stand.
The central bank said it continues to make rate decisions based on key markers of economic health, like the unemployment rate, nonfarm payroll job growth, inflation, and GDP. The committee members have a dual mandate to maintain stable prices and promote maximum employment, a goal that has been especially difficult in recent months.At Wednesday's press conference, Powell said he would expect some differing opinions among Fed members because they may have differing priorities for the dual mandate."It's natural," Powell said. "I think it would actually be surprising if you didn't have a wide range of views in this highly unusual situation, and we do."
How the 'dot plot' reflects The Fed's economic outlookThe "dot plot" outlines economic projections by each member of the Fed. Taken together, the plot gives a window into where monetary policy could be headed in the short and long term.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Specific committee members are not named alongside their projections.Powell said the latest job growth revisions gave the Fed "a very different picture of the risks of the labor market" and could warrant future policy changes.
The Fed chair has also been under pressure from the Trump Administration and fellow Fed leaders to cut rates in September — and continue lowering rates. Fed Governors Michelle Bowman and Christopher Waller dissented to July's hold call, and new member Stephen Miran dissented to Wednesday's call, preferring a half-percentage-point cut.Powell said there was no united support for a bigger cut in September."There wasn't widespread support at all for a 50-basis point cut today. We've done very large rate hikes and very large rate cuts in the last five years. You tend to do that when policy is out of place and needs to move quickly to a new place."
He added that he is open to discussing bigger cuts with the committee in the future, and he doesn't regret his previous restrictive policy strategy. Any decisions from the committee will be solely based on in-the-moment economic data, he said."That's really all that matters and that's how it's going to work," he said. "That's in the DNA of the institution that's not going to change."
Recommended video
Federal Reserve
Markets
Jerome Powell
More
Interest Rates
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account