Best Smart Locks of 2025: Hold the Door - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Security Smart Locks
Best Smart Locks of 2025: Hold the Door
A smart lock is one of the simplest and best upgrades you can make to your home security. Here are CNET's top recommendations.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Written by
David Priest
Written by
Molly Price
Article updated on August 31, 2025 at 5:27 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
David Priest Former editor David Priest is an award-winning writer and editor who formerly covered home security for CNET.
See full bio
Molly Price Former Editor
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Installation
Are you looking for a retrofit over your existing lock? Or do you want a full deadbolt replacement? Would you prefer a handle or lever replacement instead?
Access
Does the lock offer easy app controls and the ability to grant and control temporary passes to other users? Are you interested in a keypad or a fingerprint scanner? Do you want compatibility with Apple Home Key or similar services?
Compatibility
Does the lock work with your existing security system or preferred voice assistant? Does the lock have Matter compatibility?
Security and privacy
Does the lock include a strong ANSI grade for physical durability? Is access date properly encrypted on the app?
Design
Is the design compact enough for your door? Does it match your other fixtures? Are there different colors or shades available?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Smart home tech isn't just here to make your life easier; it's also a tangible upgrade to your home's security. Devices like video doorbell cameras and connected locks offer extra peace of mind when you're home or away. If you're still using an old-school lock, swapping it out for a smart lock is one of the simplest and most effective upgrades you can make. The best smart lock models let you add multiple fingerprints, set temporary codes and create single-use passes for babysitters or anyone else who needs access. Beyond the safety benefits, smart locks are practical upgrades, too. For example, you can schedule entry times for guests and never have to worry about leaving the door unlocked.
Our Picks
Best overall home smart lock Yale Assure Lock 2
Jump to details
$180 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget smart lock Ultraloq U-Bolt Pro with Wi-Fi
Jump to details
$130 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best retrofit smart lock August Wi-Fi Smart Lock
Jump to details
$157 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart lock handle Schlage Encode Smart Wi-Fi Lever
Jump to details
$252 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best invisible smart lock Level Lock Plus
Jump to details
$155 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best video smart lock Eufy Video Smart Lock E330
Jump to details
$190 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart lock for apartments Yale Approach Lock with Wi-Fi
Jump to details
$182 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best for Apple users Lockly Visage Zeno Series Lock
Jump to details
$349 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 3 more
Featured Deal What is this?
Get 25% off an Ultraloq smart deadbolt Ultraloq Bolt NFC with Apple Home Key
$199 at Amazon
SMART LOCK DEALS OF THE WEEK
August Wi-Fi Smart Lock (4th Generation, Silver):  $124 (save $107)
Schlage Encode Smart Wi-Fi Deadbolt With Century Trim:  $229 (save $71)
Aqara Smart Lock U100 Fingerprint Keyless Entry Door Lock:  $135 (save $95)
Yale Assure Lock 2 Wi-Fi Smart Lock With Keypad (Black):  $193 (save $68)
Eufy Security S230 Wi-Fi Fingerprint Keyless Smart Entry Door Lock:  $160 (save $40) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Smart Locks of 2025: Hold the Door
What's the best overall smart lock?
Best smart locks of 2025
Best overall home smart lock
Best budget smart lock
Best retrofit smart lock
Best smart lock handle
Best invisible smart lock
Best video smart lock
Best smart lock for apartments
Best for Apple users
Get 25% off an Ultraloq smart deadbolt
Smart locks compared
Other smart locks we've tested
How we test smart locks
What is an ANSI/BHMA rating?
Replacements and retrofits: How installation works
Factors to consider when choosing a smart lock
What we updated
CNET's experts tested over 20 options and narrowed them down to the top eight picks. Whether you're looking for stronger security or just a little extra convenience, these standout options from trusted brands including Yale, Schlage, Locky and August bring unique features to the table.What's the best overall smart lock?
Yale's super-compact keypad keeps the tech behind in the locking mechanism. Tyler Lacoma/CNETWhile my list is filled with excellent locks, including the Schlage Encode Plus and Lockly Visage, my top pick is the Yale Assure 2 lock. Although not every version of this lock has fingerprint reading, this mode does nearly everything in a highly compact design, including Apple support and easy digital passes, plus several options for appearance and compatibility with home security systems. I found it had the most focused, valuable performance with an extra-solid appearance. Best smart locks of 2025
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Photo Gallery 1/1
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Best overall home smart lock
Yale Assure Lock 2
Pros
Stylish design
Voice assistant support for Alexa, Google, and Siri
Options for codes, fingerprints and more
Works with Airbnb app and ADT Plus
Cons
Can be pricey
Not all models have fingerprint access
Why I like it:Yale’s lock is compact, sturdy, has an excellent app and works with multiple smart home platforms, including Apple Home/HomeKit, Alexa and Google Assistant. It offers nearly everything a modern smart lock should, without the bulky design some locks can suffer from, ideal for those who want both form and function. In addition to the keypad and app control, it also supports Apple Home Keys and digital passes. There are several different styles depending on the look you want for your lock.Note that not every version of the Yale Assure 2 has fingerprint access, so if that's important to you, make sure you choose a model that includes this feature -- which will add to the price. Check out my ADT Plus review to see how this lock can integrate with home security, too. I found the lock easy to use and install, although the Z-wave connections can get more complicated if you want to connect the lock to multiple hubs. Who is this for:First-time lock buyers, those tired of bulky retrofits, Apple Siri and Home users, ADT Plus users, people who all right skipping a fingerprint sensor.Who shouldn’t buy it:Users who don't care much about integrations but want high-tech fingerprint sensing and flashy touchscreens.  ... Show more
Get it now
$180 at Amazon
$280 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Grade 2Lock options
Key, keypad, app, Bluetooth, Home Keys and digital passesPower
4 AA batteriesSmart home compatibility
Apple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google AssistantBattery life
9-12 months under typical conditions with Z-Wave enabled
Add to compare
Ultraloq/Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ultraloq/Amazon
Best budget smart lock
Ultraloq U-Bolt Pro with Wi-Fi
Pros
One of the more affordable smart lock brands at $150 or lower
Keypad and fingerprint
Easy "eKey" passcodes
High IP65 weather resistance
Cons
No Apple or Siri support
The entry pad design isn't for everyone
Why I like it:Smart locks aren't famous for their budget options, which still tend to go well above $100 if you want the best features. This Ultraloq model is one of the best matches we've found between affordability and features, including a durable keypad and built-in fingerprint sensor. Our tests also found that the Ultraloq's Wi-Fi range was particularly excellent for a smart lock, making this a good choice for a sublease, granny pod, Airbnb apartment or similar situations.Options like eKey sharing and management make it easy to offer digital passes to friends and family and control how they're used, while the IP65 rating ensures that weather is no problem, no matter how harsh your seasons get. Alexa and Google Assistant compatibility round off this lock nicely, but we miss Apple support. The round keypad may also be a little strange for first-time customers.Who is this for:Those who want to save a little money without sacrificing quality, people with a rental or additional deadbolt door on their property to protect and fans of compact locksWho shouldn’t buy it:Users who prefer a more traditionally designed lock, as well as Apple fans.  ... Show more
Get it now
$130 at Amazon
$108 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Grade 1Lock options
App, keypad, fingerprintPower
AA batteriesSmart home compatibility
Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Samsung BixbyBattery life
3 - 6 months (around 6000 access events)
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best retrofit smart lock
August Wi-Fi Smart Lock
Pros
Easy retrofit design for existing deadbolts
Comprehensive locking and monitoring options
Alexa, Google Home and Apple Home compatibility
Slimmer and more affordable than ever
Cons
While more compact than previous models, it's still bulky
No full Matter compatibility yet
Why I like it:This August lock has been on our list for some time now, has frequently starred as an Editor's Choice selection and continues to impress as a retrofit model. That means you don't have to replace your existing deadbolt to use it: The August lock fits over the bolt to control via an app or voice assistant, a somewhat bulky (August continues to slim down its hardware) but extremely convenient option.August's locking features cover all the bases, including auto-locking, DoorSense open/close notifications and a log of all activity. As with many locks on our list, you can also send guest access passes with customized deadlines (very convenient for managing anyone from a house cleaner to vacationing friends).Although August's latest lock doesn't have Matter yet, it's still fully compatible with Alexa, Google Home and Apple Home. Remember, you must manage the rechargeable lithium battery when using this lock, and retrofits like this go through battery life quickly.Who is this for:Buyers who like their current deadbolt but want some smart features, people looking to save money on a door lock upgrade, those who don't mind sacrificing a bit of space and buyers who want to save money.Who shouldn’t buy it:Anyone who wants a full deadbolt installation instead, people who really dislike bulky retrofits.  ... Show more
Get it now
$157 at Amazon
$157 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Grade 3 (note retrofits aren’t the actual deadbolt)Lock options
Key, appPower
2 Rechargeable batteriesSmart home compatibility
Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple Siri, Samsung BixbyBattery life
Up to 3 months
Learn more
August Wi-Fi Smart Lock review
Add to compare
Schlage/Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Schlage/Amazon
Best smart lock handle
Schlage Encode Smart Wi-Fi Lever
Pros
Excellent handle design alternative to deadbolts
Customizable notifications
Up to 100 entry codes
Alexa and Google Assistant support
Cons
Expensive
No biometrics
Why I like it:'Not everyone has a deadbolt or wants a deadbolt replacement to get smart lock features. We're impressed with Schlage's alternative, a smart Wi-Fi lever to replace your current door handle and still provide many of the same amenities. The built-in Wi-Fi lets you set up to 100 entry codes, customize notifications, review activity logs and schedule autolocking. The lock primarily focuses on code entry with app management, but it works with Alexa and Google Assistant for additional voice control options.One downside: The smart handle is one of our priciest picks, so it may not be within everyone's budget range. This Schlage lock is available in a variety of colors and styles,, and some cost less than others depending on supply, so it’s worth looking at different designs and finding what matches your home while saving some money.Who is this for:People willing to pay more for an excellent lock design, buyers with a door (like a garage side door) that doesn't have a deadbolt but still needs smart protection, customers who like code-based door entry. Who shouldn’t buy it:Those specifically looking for a deadbolt upgrade.  ... Show more
Get it now
$252 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Grade 1/AAALock options
Key, keypad, app, BluetoothPower
4 AA batteriesSmart home compatibility
Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple Home/SiriBattery life
Up to 6 months
Add to compare
Lockly
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lockly
Best invisible smart lock
Level Lock Plus
Pros
Compact design includes many smart features
Matter support
Included contactless keycard
Cons
Misses out on more advanced options like fingerprint access
Why I like it:At a glance, no one would know that this Level lock has tech features, but the small lock includes app support, a contactless keycard (included) and Apple Home/Home Key support. We found it easy to install without the bulky attachments of many locks, making it more suitable as a one-person job. Thanks to the latest Matter support, it also works with other smart home brands like Alexa, Google Home and SmartThings, so you’ll have lots of options to control this invisible smart lock.Who is this for:Buyers who want a smart lock that doesn't look like a smart lock, Apple Home and Home Key fans, people who like waving a magic keycard at their door and fans of a quick and easy installation.Who shouldn’t buy it:Users who prefer a built-in keypad and other high-tech, highly visible features.
... Show more
Get it now
$155 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Grade 3Lock options
Key, app, Bluetooth, keycard, Apple Home/Home KeyPower
CR2 batterySmart home compatibility
Apple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Samsung SmartThings
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best video smart lock
Eufy Video Smart Lock E330
Pros
Video with object recognition
Free onboard video storage
Cons
No two-way audio
Lock needs a good place for clear video
Video doorbells make features repetitive
Why I like it:Video locks are one of the big new home security trends in 2025, combining video doorbells and smart locks into one rather large do-it-all device for the front door. They don’t work for everyone because of lock placement, but with the right entryway, they’re a fascinating alternative. Eufy has released one of the first lines available to consumers, a powerful model with a rechargeable battery, 2K camera and Eufy’s object recognition for noticing humans, animals, etc.The E330 has a keypad, a fingerprint reader for access and a doorbell chime. It can also store video onboard without the need for a subscription. While the lock works with Alexa and Google, it doesn’t support two-way audio like video doorbells do. We found it a little more difficult to set up with the extra hardware, but it's a fascinating option for those who don't have a video doorbell or security camera yet.Who is this for:People without a video doorbell who still want front door video features, buyers with a good view of their property so the 2K camera can do its work, customers who don't mind skipping the remote conversations.Who shouldn’t buy it:Buyers who already have a video doorbell or front door security camera.  ... Show more
Get it now
$190 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Reported certified, but Eufy doesn’t specify a gradeLock options
Key, app, Bluetooth, keypad, fingerprint, Apple WatchPower
Rechargeable 10,000mAh batterySmart home compatibility
Amazon Alexa, Google AssistantBattery life
Up to 120 days
Add to compare
Yale
Photo Gallery 1/1
Yale
Best smart lock for apartments
Yale Approach Lock with Wi-Fi
Pros
Compact retrofit
Adhesive keypad
Easy auto lock/unlock options
Cons
May be too expensive for some renters
Why I like it:Yale’s Approach lock is a top-shelf choice for renters or others who need to leave their current locks intact, and we found it very easy to install and dismantle as needed. The retrofit is more compact than the August lock and includes Bluetooth access for contactless operation. You can also use the included keypad in this bundle, which offers an adhesive alternative for mounting so you don’t need to worry about screw holes or other rental no-nos.The lock can tell you if the door is unlocked at any time and lets you set an auto-lock for improved safety. It works with Alexa and Google Assistant, but not Apple. If the price is a little steep for you, you can de-bundle the keypad to save money.Who is this for:Renters and others who can't drill holes in the walls or make big lock changes but still want smart features, people who don't use Apple HomeKit/Home app, those who want to save money with a compact retrofit.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who aren't fans of separated keypads, buyers who want a full deadbolt upgrades and don't have to worry about getting owner permission.  ... Show more
Get it now
$182 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Grade 2Lock options
Bluetooth, app, keypadPower
4 AA batteriesSmart home compatibility
Amazon Alexa, Google AssistantBattery life
Up to 12 months
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best for Apple users
Lockly Visage Zeno Series Lock
Pros
Sharp design
Massive amount of unlock options
Face recognition
Apple Home and Home Key compatibility
Cons
Expensive
Annoying wired door sensor add-on
Why I like it:Lockly’s Visage lock has the most expansive unlock options I’ve seen, from face recognition to fingerprints and codes in an ever-shifting Genie keypad touchscreen, so you can’t memorize finger placement, only numbers. It also works innately with the Apple Home app and Home Keys (plus Google and Amazon), making this an excellent choice for Apple fans of all kinds. The lock operates on rechargeable batteries and comes with an extra battery, so you don’t need to worry about losing power -- although we found that we did have to charge and replace packs fairly regularly.There are only two notable downsides to this lock that keep it from rising to the top of the list. First, it’s pricey: You’ll have to pay to get so many Lockly features in one lock. Second, some models (like the one we tested) have an annoying door sensor wired add-on that’s ugly and hard to install. Fortunately, Lockly makes versions that don't have it.Who is this for:Buyers who want a sci-fi-like lock that can open any way they please, customers who don't mind paying for a great experience, customers who are OK with frequently charging battery packs -- and those willing to check the product details so they find the version without the wired sensor add-on.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who aren't fans of frequent battery pack management, users who want an especially compact lock.
... Show more
Get it now
$349 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
ANSI/BHMA
Grade 2Lock option
Key, keypad, app, fingerprint, face recognition, Bluetooth, Home Keys and digital passesPower
Rechargeable battery pack (2 included)Smart home compatibility
Amazon Alexa, Apple Home/Siri, Google HomeBattery life
Up to 8 months
Add to compareSmart locks compared
Smart Locks Yale Assure Lock 2Schlage Encode Smart Wi-Fi LeverUltraloq U-Bolt ProLockly Visage Zeno Series LockAugust Smart Lock 4th-GenYale Approach LockLevel Lock PlusEufy Video Smart Lock E330 Price $240$240$190$350$146$200$290$280Lock design Deadbolt, keylessLever/handle, keylessDeadbolt, keylessDeadboltDeadboltDeadboltDeadboltVideo DeadboltUnlocking options App, entrypad, Apple WatchApp, entrypad, backup keyApp, entrypad, biometric, Key, keypad, app, fingerprint, face recognition, Bluetooth, Home Keys and digital passesApp, keyBluetooth, app, keypadKey, app, Bluetooth, keycard, Apple Home/Home KeyKey, app, Bluetooth, keypad, fingerprint, Apple WatchInstallation type ReplacementReplacemetReplacementReplacementRetrofitRetrofitReplacementReplacementPower options 4 AA batteries9V batteryAA batteriesRechargeable battery pack2 Rechageable batteries4 AA batteriesCR2 batteryRechargeable 10,000mAh batteryVoice assistant Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple SiriAmazon Alexa, Google AssistantAmazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Samsung Bixby, IFTTTAmazon Alexa, Apple Home/Siri, Google HomeAmazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Apple Siri, Samsung BixbyAmazon Alexa, Google AssistantApple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Samsung SmartThingsAmazon Alexa, Google AssistantReview score 7/10 (old model)7.2 (deadbolt model)N/AN/A8.3/10N/AN/AN/A
Other smart locks we've tested
In our search for the best smart lock, these are some of the other products we've tried out.
The Kwikset Halo Touch is a no-frills fingerprint lock with built-in Wi-Fi and support for Alexa or Google Assistant. Ry Crist/CNETAqara Smart Lock U200: Aqara's lock has plenty that our testers liked, including full Matter and Thread support, and a compact keypad. However, our top pick for a separate keypad would be either the Level Plus or Yale Approach lock. Buyers who want full Matter smart home compatibility should still check out this lock, though. Nest Yale Lock: Nest and Yale partnered up for a Google-centric smart lock with a touch keypad. This Nest app smart door lock has the good looks of Yale's earlier models, but it isn't quite as capable as other keyless locks when it comes to smart home integration.Kwikset Halo Touch: The Halo Touch is a simple, straightforward fingerprint lock with built-in Wi-Fi and Alexa/Google compatibility. However, there's no Apple support and the price, currently at $200, is a bit high. Still, it could be a good deadbolt replacement if you catch it onon a sale.Wyze Smart Lock: We like how affordable the Wyze lock is. For around $30 more, the Ultraloq model offers a lot more, so it's currently our top budget pick. Also, Wyze has had a string of security issues that it hasn't been able to resolve at the level of other brands, like August, so we'd like to keep an eye on Wyze for a while.Aqara U100: We were fans of this smart lock, but it's been a bit outclassed by the latest wave of smart locks, which are more compact and don't require an extra hub to enable important features.
The Lockly Flex Touch has a built-in fingerprint scanner but you need to pay an extra $80 for the plug-in Wi-Fi hub. Ry Crist/CNETLockly Flex Touch: An understated fingerprint lock, the Flex Touch looks like a standard deadbolt on the outside, apart from the small fingerprint sensor that dangles underneath. That fingerprint sensor worked great when we tested it out, but the interior is made of faux-stainless-steel plastic, which felt a bit cheap. You'll need to buy an $80 plug-in Wi-Fi hub to control the lock via your phone from beyond Bluetooth range.Schlage Sense Bluetooth Deadbolt: (discontinued) Ou Schlage's Sense smart lock is affordable, but clunky and not as simple to set up as its Encode sibling. But you'll also needed a Schlage lock Wi-Fi adapter to connect with Google Assistant or Alexa, a design choice that has fallen out of favor in recent years. How we test smart locks
Some smart locks, like the Kwikset Halo Touch, make installation a breeze. Ry Crist/CNETThe CNET team has spent years testing and reviewing smart locks. For our most recent batch of tests, we tried out several new models at our own homes, as well as on mock door displays to help save time. We like to give smart locks at least a few days of operation if possible. Hands on with designFor starters, we took a critical eye on each lock's design, as well as the simplicity of the installation process. It's usually not a complicated process, and in many cases, you'll need only a Phillips head screwdriver, but it still might feel intimidating for some. From there, the testing is largely experiential. We pay attention to important physical considerations like the size of the lock and how loud the motor gets when the deadbolt turns, as well as practical considerations like app features, ease of use and the range of compatibility with different smart home platforms and peripheral devices.
The U-Bolt Pro with built-in Wi-Fi was the top finisher in our range tests and worked even from a backyard. Ry Crist/CNETTesting access optionsSome smart locks, particularly coded ones, are better for sharing access with guests. Others, including Bluetooth locks with auto-unlocking smarts whenever you draw near, are better for more convenience-minded customers. Whatever the lock's approach, the features must work well if it wants to earn our recommendation.
We assemble and take down smart locks so you don't have to. John Carlsen/CNETWe also spend plenty of time on the app, making sure that it's intuitive, easy to use and has all the important settings that locks need. Geofencing, autolocking and code settings all get their time to shine. If the lock connects with another platform, we give that alternative control option time to shine, too.Battery, performance and moreAfter spending time with the lock, we're able to accurately measure how smooth and reliable it is when it comes to autolocking, how quickly the battery wears down under frequent use, and how snappy biometrics and keypads are. Some issues become apparent only after a few days of use, so we like to give locks a bit of time before making our final calls.
What is an ANSI/BHMA rating?
The U100's keypad feels weighty, responsive and elegant. Tyler Lacoma/CNETThis refers to a rating given to door locks by a combined initiative between two organizations, the American National Standards Institute and the Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association. It rates locks based on how durable they are and how difficult they are to break through.The ANSI/BHMA grades come in three levels. Grade 1 is the strongest and suitable for residential and commercial applications. Grade 2 is suitable for most residential applications, possibly some basic commercial needs (most smart locks fall in this category). Grade 3 is the most basic security, suitable for inside doors but best avoided for your front and other exterior doors if possible (retrofits often fall in this category, but they aren’t the lock itself).There is also a more in-depth BHMA grading system of three letters, like AAA, which denotes Security, Durability and Finish, but this is relatively new and isn’t as common yet. Replacements and retrofits: How installation works
Yale's super-compact keypad keeps the tech behind in the locking mechanism. Tyler Lacoma/CNETSmart lock retrofits are very easy to install, since you aren't removing and replacing the deadbolt. You can easily handle this project yourself, and smart locks are good at including instructions, both video and diagrams, to help out. Most replacements will offer a cut out to help correctly measure the size of your deadbolt space and what screws or installation methods you may need to use.Full deadbolt or handle replacements will take
work, but you can still handle the installation yourself in almost every case. You'll need a tape measure, a durable screwdriver and preferably a handheld drill for the project. The key is aligning your new smart lock to properly fit in the strike plate and other components of your door. Some door spaces are more lenient here than others.Retrofits are much easier to install, with a cap-like component that fits over the existing deadbolt. Some size requirements may be necessary, so check the details of the lock before you buy.If you don't have a standard-sized residential door, smart locks get much more complicated and you should contact an expert.
Factors to consider when choosing a smart lock
Smart locks are a highly visible part of your home that you'll use just about every day, so it's important to find a reliable pick that meshes well with your smart home. Here are the factors you should be thinking about as you shop.
A retrofit smart lock like the August lock will replace the interior of your current lock but not the exterior keyhole or the deadbolt. CNETFull deadbolt or retrofitMost smart locks will replace your existing lock, including the interior thumbturn, the exterior keyhole and the deadbolt in the middle. Locks like those will also come with their keys, replacing the ones you use now.Others, like the August Smart Lock, and the Lockly fingerprint model, are designed instead to work with at least some of your existing lock hardware. With a retrofit lock like that, you probably won't need new keys and might not even need to swap out the deadbolt. Locks like those can sometimes be a better fit for apartments, where the building owners might not allow you to replace the entire lock.
Yale's smart lock can work with the Nest video doorbell.  Yale Modes of accessDifferent smart locks will take different approaches to letting you in. On a basic level, most smart locks will let you lock and unlock the door wirelessly from your phone, using an app. Others add in keypads for coded entry, which can help you rely on your keys a little less while also making it easier to share access with others. Some lock add fingerprint or palm scanning to let you inside with biometrics. There are also keypad and NFC options, even face scanning in some cases.Apple has also added a Home Key feature in iOS15 that lets you store a digital house key in your Apple Wallet, which lets you open compatible smart locks using the NFC radio in your iPhone or Apple Watch. Many other brands have followed suit with digital passes that guests can download on their phones with the right apps. So, what's right for you? Going into an app for door access isn't ideal unless you are controlling it remotely. That's why we like Bluetooth and NFC passes that can work with a wave of your phone, as well as fingerprint sensors and similar options that are keyed to individuals and work at a touch at any time. But a keypad has its advantages as well, since it allows for temporary code handouts or limited-time access without someone needing their phone or a specific app to use.
The Schlage Encode Plus is the first smart lock to support Apple Home Key. It lets you unlock your door using an iPhone or Apple Watch. Schlage Platform compatibility and MatterIf your household includes multiple types of smart home devices, then your best bet is to control them all from a single smart home platform. That way, you won't need to juggle multiple apps to keep everything automated. The most popular picks are Amazon Alexa, the Google Home app and the Google Assistant voice controls that come with it, and Apple HomeKit, which brings Siri into play. Samsung SmartThings is another option for a hub-centric smart home.That brings us to Matter. Matter (and its tagalong communication protocol Thread) is an important smart home protocol designed in coordination with major brands, including Google, Amazon, Apple, and many others. It helps guarantee compatibility across different platforms and adds extra security and data transfer benefits, which buyers should definitely be watching for.Currently, smart lock companies are still adopting the Matter standard. Our top pick uses it and is one of the best options we've found. Schlage has begun to adopt the standard for locks like its upcoming Schlage Sense Pro, but it hasn't made its way to our Schlage Smart Lever pick quite yet, and the same goes for Yale Assure. Brands like Aqara are now including built-in Matter support with their latest locks. August has also announced it's working to bring Matter to its smart locks, so in some cases, it just be a "matter" of waiting for the right firmware update.
Aqara's lock comes with many unlocking options and gets even more features if you plug in a hub. AqaraSecurity and privacySmart locks aren't quite as data-sensitive as devices with built-in cameras and microphones, but you'll still want to make sure that you're keeping things secure. Most, if not all of your options will use some form of encryption to keep the wireless transmissions between your lock and your phone or home network secure. You should also look for locks that use two-factor authentication to keep your account safe from malicious logins. As with any connected device in your home, you'll want to be sure to keep your lock updated to the latest firmware and to set a strong password in the app.As for lockpicking and other physical concerns, you can look for the lock's ANSI grade to get a sense of its durability, and how well it might stand up against a brute-force entry attack. ANSI grade 3 is the most basic rating, but a growing number of smart locks offer ANSI grade 2 or grade 1 ratings, which tell you that they're built with commercial-grade durability. If you're concerned about forced entries, a lock like that might be a good investment.
Lockin's Veno Pro 7 components
John Carlsen/CNET Design considerationsYour smart lock is going to sit right on the front of your home's exterior, so it's worth aiming for something you won't hate looking at. Some smart locks go out of their way to show off their gadgety features with light-up touchscreens, color-coded LED indicator lights and tech-minded designs. Others take the opposite approach, doing their best to blend in and look just like a standard lock, from the outside at least. Picking a preference between the two approaches will help you narrow your options.You'll also want to consider how the lock stays powered. Most smart locks will run off four AA batteries, but some take a different approach. The minimalistic Level Lock +, for instance, runs off two AA batteries that sits inside of the deadbolt itself to keep things extra compact. Meanwhile, Eufy's touchscreen smart lock runs off of a rechargeable battery pack.Wi-FiWi-Fi support has now become common for smart locks, but it's important to look at the details. Some locks don't have built-in Wi-Fi, but only support it if you buy an additional hub.
What we updated
Many smart locks will either have a traditional physical keyhole built in. John Carlsen/CNETThe Yale Assure Lock 2 has taken the top spot after my tests with the lock in late 2024, and I added the Eufy lock for those interested in a video doorbell/lock combination. Competition for our best Apple lock is fierce, and while I'm happy with recommending the simplified version of Lockly's Visage lock for now, Aqara remains a strong choice and I'm considering other picks such as the Schlage Encode Plus. Tests with other locks are ongoing.
Smart lock FAQ
How secure are smart locks?
Smart locks from major developers such as Yale and Schlage are reliable security devices, but only if you use them correctly. Just like a lock three feet from a key hidden under the doormat isn’t secure, a smart lock with the PIN 1-2-3-4 won’t be either. That said, smart locks can be more secure than traditional ones -- after all, keys are easier to lose than your fingers if you’re using a fingerprint lock.
Do smart locks support physical keys?
Yes. Smart locks will either have a traditional physical keyhole built right in (like the Level lock in our top picks), or an emergency slot for a specialized key in emergencies.
Why are smart locks so expensive?
Like most smart home tech, smart locks are becoming more affordable, but that doesn't mean they're cheap. Between the conventional hardware (deadbolt and lock parts), the smart hardware (chips and radios) and the software (digital security measures like encryption), there’s a lot that goes into a smart lock. So finding one for under $100 -- which isn’t unusual these days -- is actually a solid deal.
Can smart locks be hacked?
Yes. Smart locks, like any Wi-Fi device, can be hacked. But if you buy from a reliable developer, the communications should be encrypted, making it pretty tough. And remember: Robberies are usually crimes of convenience. An unlocked window or open garage door is a far more likely entry point than your theoretically hackable smart lock.
Are smart locks risky?
Smart lock hacking isn’t much of a threat to your home thanks to encryption, but that doesn’t mean they’re risk-free. Battery-powered locks can cause headaches if you don’t keep them charged. And while smart home hacking is highly unlikely, you can lower the risk by using strong passwords and enabling two-factor authentication.
Is it hard to install smart locks?
With basic DIY skills, you won’t need to call a locksmith unless something goes really wrong. Even deadbolts can be replaced if you disassemble your current one and measure carefully. Top brands usually provide installation videos and detailed instructions to guide you through the process. If it’s your first time setting up a smart lock, expect it to take about an hour.
How can I manage smart lock battery life?
Smart locks only draw battery power when in use, so battery life depends on how often your door is opened, closed, locked or unlocked each day. On average, a smart lock should last several months before needing new batteries. If they’re draining in just a couple of weeks or less, something’s likely wrong -- such as a doorbell update stuck in progress or a Wi-Fi connection that keeps dropping.
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Also written by
David Priest Former editorAlso written by
Molly Price Former Editor
Home Security Guides
Security Cameras
Best Home Security Camera
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Cheap Home Security Cameras
Best Indoor Home Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbell Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells
Best Nanny Cams
Arlo Pro 4 Review
Ring Alarm Pro Review
Security Services
Best Home Security System
Best Home Security for Renters
Best Cheap Home Security Systems
Best DIY Home Security Systems
Vivint Home Security Review
Simplisafe vs. Ring
ADT Home Security Review
ADT vs. Vivint
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.