My Apple AirPods Pro 3 Review: Big Improvements, Same Price, No Compromises - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechMobile Headphones
My Apple AirPods Pro 3 Review: Big Improvements, Same Price, No Compromises
They cost the same at a hefty $249, but Apple's third-generation noise-canceling earbuds have improved in all the key areas, including fit, noise cancellation, sound quality and battery life.
Article updated on September 15, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
David Carnoy
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
9.2/ 10
SCORE Apple AirPod Pro 3
$249 at Amazon $249 at B&H Photo-Video
Pros
Design upgrades to the buds and ear tips improve their fit
Noise cancellation has been upgraded and is now top-notch
They sound better with improved bass response and more clarity
Built-in heart-rate monitoring with new sensors
Excellent voice-calling performance (upgraded microphones)
Battery life is rated for up to 8 hours (up from 6 for AirPods Pro 2)
Cons
They still use the H2 chip found in the AirPods Pro 2
Heart-rate monitoring is buried in fitness apps
While they work with Android, many of their features are exclusive to Apple devices
Some new colors would be nice
Table of Contents
My Apple AirPods Pro 3 Review: Big Improvements, Same Price, No Compromises
What's new or upgraded
Modified design improved the fit for me
Heart-rate monitoring
Apple ups its noise-canceling game
More refined sound with better bass
Voice-calling performance
Live translation
Transparency and Hearing Aid modes
Better battery life through chemistry
Upgraded U2 chip in charging case for Find My
Additional features
AirPods Pro 3 final thoughts (for now)
2025
One issue with next-gen AirPods such as the AirPods Pro 3 is that they often look very similar to the previous model, leaving many people to question whether the upgrades really matter. However, after using the AirPods Pro 3 for five days, I can say that these buds are significantly improved in four key areas: fit, sound quality, noise cancellation and battery life. The result is that you don't feel like you're making any compromises when buying the AirPods Pro 3. Read on to see just how much they've improved in each area and how they stack up against other top true-wireless earbuds.  Before I get into all the changes, here's a quick breakdown of what's stayed the same.The AirPods Pro 3's list price is still $249 (£219, AU$429). That wasn't a given with all the uncertainty surrounding the Trump administration tariffs, but we'll see where their street price shakes out on Amazon and other retailers where AirPods models often get discounted.The AirPods Pro 3 are powered by Apple's H2 chip -- the same one that powers the AirPods Pro 2, AirPods 4 and Beats Powerbeats Pro 2. Rumors pointed to an H3 chip, but that didn't happen. Nor did we get any new color options; white is still the only option.The AirPods Pro 3 stick with Bluetooth 5.3, just like the AirPods Pro 2 (though some true-wireless earbuds have already jumped to Bluetooth 6.0).The buds still feature a MagSafe charging case with USB-C and wireless charging (no USB-C charging cable is included). Now for the upgrades: I'll run through them quickly, then share my take on many of them.What's new or upgradedWhile they look similar to the previous model, the AirPods Pro 3 have been redesigned and their geometric shape has changed a bit, with the angle of the bud shifted. They're the same length but are slightly smaller width-wise, slightly larger depth-wise and weigh a touch more (5.55 grams vs. 5.3 grams on the AirPods Pro 2).They come with new foam-infused silicone ear tips in five sizes, including a new extra-extra small size.They're equipped with heart-rate sensors like the Beats Powerbeats Pro 2.2x better noise cancellation compared to the AirPods Pro 2, according to Apple.While they have 10.7mm drivers like the AirPods Pro 2, those drivers have been upgraded to take advantage of the buds' new multiport acoustic architecture, which moves more air through the buds and improves sound quality.The microphones have been upgraded.Transparency Mode has been enhanced.New Live Translation feature (also available for the AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods 4 series, but not the Beats Powerbeats Pro 2).Their battery life has improved to 8 hours with noise cancellation on and up to 10 hours in Hearing Aid mode with transparency on.Instead of being IPX4 splash-proof like the AirPods Pro 2, they've got an IP57 rating, which means they can withstand a sustained spray of water. (I poured water on them and they survived just fine). They're also dust-resistant.The case now includes a U2 chip, boosting Precision Finding range in the Find My app by 1.5x (requires an iPhone 17).Like with the AirPods 4, there's no longer a button on the case for Bluetooth pairing. You simply double tap on the front of the case to have the buds go into Bluetooth pairing mode.
Watch this: Apple AirPods Pro 3 Review: The Complete Package
11:18
Modified design improved the fit for meAs I mentioned, the AirPods Pro 3 are slightly narrower, but more importantly, their shape and bud angle have been adjusted so the ear tips point more directly into your ear canals.Additionally, the ear tips have been redesigned. Traditional foam tips tend to feel dense and squishy at the same time, but these new tips are infused with a thin layer of memory foam, particularly toward the front, giving them a firmer and more premium feel.
Enlarge Image
Testing the AirPods Pro 3 in the streets of New York. They look the same in your ears as the AirPods Pro 2 but the fit feels different.  David Carnoy/CNETThe tips now come in five sizes, including a new extra-extra small option. There's still no extra-large tip (which I was hoping for), but the large size now fits more like XL. Note that the new tips attach differently than before, so they aren't compatible with the original AirPods Pro or Pro 2.The buds felt noticeably different in my ears than the AirPods Pro 2 -- snugger and more secure. With the Pro 3, Apple put a big emphasis on fit since a tight seal is key to sound quality and noise canceling, and it wants people to notice both have improved.I think more people will be able to get a better fit with these buds, though I'm sure there will be some folks who were just fine with the fit of the AirPods Pro 2 who will say they prefer their fit.Read more: Best AirPods Pro 3 preorder deals -- $20 reward for select Best Buy membersHeart-rate monitoring I haven't spent much time using the new heart-rate monitoring feature yet, and I don't consider it a must-have in earbuds, particularly if you already own an Apple Watch or another watch with heart-rate monitoring capabilities. While the heart-rate sensors have been custom-designed for the AirPods Pro 3 (they're Apple's smallest heart-rate sensors) and aren't identical to the ones in the Powerbeats Pro 2, my experience using them was the same as with the Powerbeats Pro 2, which I've tested more extensively.
The AirPods Pro 3 have heart-rate sensors like the Powerbeats Pro 2, but they're custom-designed for the AirPods Pro 3.  AppleThe monitoring is compatible with a number of fitness apps, including Apple Fitness and Fitness Plus, and can work in tandem with the Apple Watch's heart-rate monitoring feature to get the most accurate measurement between the two devices. You can also use a single bud for heart-rate monitoring -- a feature Beats added to the Powerbeats Pro 2, too.The one drawback of using the heart-rate monitor on the Powerbeats Pro 2 or AirPods Pro 3 is that you need to launch an app to see your heart rate. For example, with the Apple Fitness app, you have to start a workout activity like an outdoor walk, run or cycle. By contrast, with the Apple Watch (and other fitness watches), your heart rate appears as soon as you put the device on, making your heart rate easy to track whether you're working out or not.Using the heart-rate monitor does affect the AirPods Pro 3's battery life -- dropping from 8 hours with noise canceling on to 6.5 hours -- which is likely why Apple didn't design it to be always on. Still, I wish there were an option to keep the sensors running at times and have my heart rate show up in a widget on my iPhone's home screen (or even lock screen), instead of only when I manually start it in a fitness app.
The current list of compatible third-party fitness apps for the heart-rate monitoring feature.  Screenshot by David Carnoy/CNETApple ups its noise-canceling game The two biggest improvements people were hoping for in the AirPods Pro 3 were sound quality and noise-canceling performance, with voice-calling performance coming in a close third.I tested their noise-cancellation capabilities on a plane against the AirPods Pro 2 and could definitely tell a difference, with the Pro 3s tamping down the cabin noise to a faint hum. The AirPods Pro 2 did a good job, but the Pro 3s took the noise level down even further. I can't say the Pro 3's noise canceling is exactly twice as good as the Pro 2's, which Apple claims, but it's definitely better.When I got back to New York City, I put them up against the Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds (2nd Gen), which a lot of people consider to have the best noise-canceling capabilities when it comes to earbuds -- or headphones for that matter. (Although Sony's WH-1000XM6 headphones also offer outstanding noise cancellation -- I named them the "new noise-canceling king" in my review).
The AirPodsPro 3 (right) look similar to the AirPods Pro 2 (left) on the surface, but have a slightly different shape and new eartips, along with a heart-rate sensor in each bud.  David Carnoy/CNETWhat I can say is that Apple's noise canceling now matches Bose and Sony, though it's hard to name a clear winner without a pricey testing rig to provide scientific results. Apple says the AirPods Pro 3 offer the "world's best in-ear active noise cancellation," but it's unclear whether it tested the AirPods Pro 3 against the 2nd Gen Bose QC Ultra Earbuds, which were released on June 28 internationally and on Sept. 10 in the US. In the fine print, Apple says that testing was conducted in July 2025 and comparisons were "made against the best-selling wireless in-ear headphones commercially available at the time of testing."I swapped Bose's QC Ultra Earbuds 2s back and forth with the AirPods Pro 3 while riding the subway and walking the streets. Both have truly impressive noise-canceling capabilities. Compared to the AirPod Pro 2, the Pro 3s are designed to improve noise cancellation across all frequencies, including mids and highs that can be challenging to muffle. I could still hear people's voices on the streets but they were toned down significantly and, unless they were talking loudly, I had a hard time understanding what they were saying. On the subway, the buds blocked out about 80-85% of the noise around me.When I took the buds out of my ears or went into Transparency Mode, I was often shocked by just how much external noise there was.More refined sound with better bassThe sound quality gains may not be quite as big as the noise-canceling gains, but the Pro 3's sound is definitely improved over the Pro 2's. The bass has more definition and extension -- it hits harder and goes deeper -- and the earbuds sound clearer, more natural and open with more sparkle in the treble. I also think they play a little louder.I ran through the usual tracks I use for testing headphones -- it's an eclectic mix. They included Spoon's Knock Knock Knock, Athletes of God's Don't Wanna Be Normal, Orbital's Dirty Rat, Bjork's Hollow, Drake's Passionfruit, Pixies' Vault of Heaven, Florence and the Machine's Choreomania, various Foo Fighters songs, plus David Byrne's new album Who Is the Sky?Testing AirPods for sound quality is a bit tricky since Apple's spatial audio can make tracks sound different -- sometimes better, sometimes just different. Most of my testing was done on Apple Music (using an iPhone 17 with near-final iOS 26), which has plenty of tracks optimized for spatial audio. I also tried Spotify and streamed a few movies on the Apple TV app, since the improved audio carries over there as well.Read more: You can preoder the iPhone 17 today -- get it free with these carriers
Enlarge Image
A close-up of the new tips and heart-rate sensors. The pinch and swipe controls (for volume) remain the same. David Carnoy/CNETYou aren't going to get quite the same level of sound quality that you'd get from a good pair of wired studio headphones, but that extra bit of clarity and definition puts the AirPods Pro 3 in the same league as some of the best-sounding earbuds, including the Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 4 and Sony WF-1000XM5. I'd still give audiophile buds like the Noble Fokus Amadeus and Bowers & Wilkins Pi8 the slight edge sound-wise, but those models are larger, more expensive and can't match the noise-canceling and voice-calling performances of the AirPods Pro 3.Unlike most high-end earbuds and headphones, Apple doesn't let you adjust the sound profile with EQ settings. Still, the AirPods deliver all the hallmarks of premium audio -- or at least premium Bluetooth audio. Apple has leveled up the listening experience with purer, more accurate sound, tighter bass and a touch more openness. In my AirPods Pro 2 review, I noted how impressive the sound was for such small, lightweight buds -- though it still fell a bit short of the very best earbuds out there.Simply put: The AirPods Pro 3's sound doesn't fall short anymore. And while they come at a premium price, these small, lightweight earbuds deliver remarkably good audio for their size.Voice-calling performanceAirPods have long stood out for voice-calling performance compared to other true-wireless earbuds. Back when the originals launched, I remember Android users buying them just for calls -- and every generation since has remained top-tier in that department.The thing that struck me in my tests with the AirPods Pro 3 was just how much background noise they eliminated. I made calls in the streets of New York City with a lot ambient noise around me, including traffic and ambulance sirens, and callers told me they couldn't hear any of it. In loud environments, my voice would sometimes warble or sound a bit digitized to callers, but when I shared a recording of what I was actually hearing, they were surprised -- even stunned -- by how much background noise was removed.
Enlarge Image
The case is ever-so-slightly bigger than the AriPods Pro 2 case. It includes USB-C and wireless charging. David Carnoy/CNETWhile the voice-calling performance of the AirPodsPro 3 seems slightly better, I'll have to run more comparisons to truly determine how much of a difference there really is. With iOS26, the AirPods Pro 2 and other H2-chip models -- including both AirPods 4 versions -- are getting an update that adds studio-quality recording and promises better voice-calling performance. As Apple says, "With the H2 chip, beamforming microphones, and computational audio, users will also enjoy more natural vocal texture and clarity across iPhone calls, FaceTime, and CallKit-enabled apps."The AirPods Pro 3 do have upgraded microphones, so that's a plus when it comes to noise reduction and voice pickup. And that upgraded acoustic architecture with more air flow should help with hearing callers even better.         Live translationApple's Live Translation is one of the new features that's being highlighted with the AirPods Pro 3, but it's also coming to other AirPods with the H2 chip, including the AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods 4 models, though not the H2-equipped Powerbeats Pro 2 (sorry, Beats owners).At Apple Park, I got a demo of the live translation feature as a Spanish-speaking presenter spoke to a small group of us for a few minutes. What she said was translated on the fly into English as I listened on the AirPods Pro 3, which were connected to an iPhone 17 Pro. The translation was done locally on the iPhone 17 Pro (no internet required), and the delay between what the speaker said in Spanish and what I heard in English was brief -- only a second or so -- and the translation sounded quite natural.
Live translation currently has a limited number of languages. David Carnoy/CNETAt home, I tested the feature with Spanish-language YouTube videos and TV (you first have to download the language you want). It worked well for the most part, and you also get a text readout of the translation as you hear it in your ears. The only real limitation is that it currently supports just five languages: English, French, German, Portuguese and Spanish.You can program the action button on the iPhone to quickly launch the Live Translation app or hold both stems of the AirPods to launch it. With the translation done locally on your phone, you don't need cell coverage to use the feature, so you can take advantage of it in remote places, too.For live conversations in different languages to work, everyone involved needs to be wearing AirPods with an H2 chip. Also note: Live translation only works on iPhones that support Apple Intelligence -- that includes the iPhone 15 Pro, as well as all iPhone 16 and iPhone 17 models.While companies like Samsung, Google and even some budget Amazon earbuds also offer live translation (with Samsung and Google supporting far more languages), Apple's version is notably simple to use and access. We'll have to see how it evolves over time.Transparency and Hearing Aid modesOne area I expected Apple to improve with the AirPods Pro 3 is Hearing Aid mode. I still need to test it more thoroughly, but the already best-in-class Transparency Mode now sounds even more natural, likely thanks to upgraded microphones, and includes an automatic Conversation Boost "for clearer speech in noisy environments."If you're not familiar, transparency modes let you hear the outside world while still wearing the buds, even though they're blocking your ear canals. Hearing Aid mode builds on that by using transparency to amplify the sounds around you.Better battery life through chemistryAs noted, battery life has improved in both noise-canceling and transparency modes: up to 8 hours on a single charge with noise canceling on (7.5 hours with spatial audio and head tracking), and up to 10 hours with transparency and Hearing Aid mode. That number drops to 6.5 hours when heart-rate monitoring is engaged. It's also worth noting that Apple lists total battery life with the charging case as 24 hours, versus 30 hours for the AirPods Pro 2. Some people, including me, are a bit perplexed as to why the overall battery life time is lower, particularly when the charging case is slightly bigger (my protective OtterBox Core Series case for the AirPods Pro 2 didn't quite fit on the AirPods Pro 3's case). What's interesting is that the battery in the buds is apparently the same size (with the same capacity) as the battery in the AirPods Pro 2; it's the battery chemistry that's changed. That change is largely what's behind the battery life improvements, along with some energy efficiency gained through new software written for the AirPods Pro 3. You get an additional three charges in the charging case, which is less than the AirPods Pro 2's four charges.While certain AirPods Pro 3 features and enhancements are being made available to the AirPods Pro 2 and AirPods 4 through firmware updates, the AirPods Pro 3 have software written exclusively for the earbuds' hardware upgrades and new acoustic architecture. That unfortunately means the AirPods 2's battery life, sound quality and noise-canceling capabilities won't be getting any better.  Upgraded U2 chip in charging case for Find MyWhile Apple didn't add a new H3 chip to the buds, it did add a new U2 chip to the charging case. It says the new chip increases the range for Precision Finding in the Find My app by 1.5x (MacRumors reports that it offers 3x the range, but Apple says it's 1.5x on its site). Whatever the exact number, it means you'll be able to use Precision Finding to hone in on your case's location -- almost like a metal detector -- even from farther away. Note that while the buds and case can both be tracked in Find My, only the case supports Precision Finding, so you'll want to lose them together if you hope to track them this way.
Enlarge Image
Ah, that's where I left the AirPods Pro 3. David Carnoy/CNETI tested out the feature and the range is extended and it also seemed zippier and more reliable. Like the U1, the U2 uses ultra-wideband technology, delivering improved spatial awareness and location accuracy to Bluetooth. There's been some speculation about whether Apple could use the technology to deliver other features to the AirPods Pro 3, including lossless audio (via the charging case). But for now it's only being used to enhance the ability to find the Pro 3's charging case should you lose it. While the U2 chip first appeared in the iPhone 15, you'll need an iPhone 17 model to get the better range for Precision Finding with the AirPods Pro 3 (I tested it with an iPhone 17). I'm still confirming this and will update this section as I get more info and do further testing.Additional featuresThe AirPods Pro 3 have all the same features as the AirPods Pro 2, including Conversation Awareness, Adaptive Audio, Hearing Protection head gestures to interact with Siri or manage calls and plenty of others. I won't rehash every feature from the Pro 2, but here's a rundown of the new additions coming to both models with iOS 26. I'll be testing them further in the days ahead.Studio-quality audio recording: Apple says that "interviewers, podcasters, singers and other creators can record their content with greater sound quality, and even record while on the go or in noisy environments, with Voice Isolation."Upgraded voice-calling performance: "Users will enjoy more natural vocal texture and clarity across iPhone calls, FaceTime and CallKit-enabled apps," it says.The new Camera Remote feature allows you to "start or stop video recordings from a distance with a simple press of the AirPods stem."AirPods models with the H2 chip will also be able to detect when you fall asleep and automatically pause what you're listening to.AirPods Pro 3 final thoughts (for now)While I didn't get a new H3 chip and I was hoping that the charging case would be able to convert into a Bluetooth transceiver to use the buds on a plane with an inflight entertainment system, I did get most of what I was looking for in the AirPods Pro 3. The changes may seem incremental to some folks, but all the key elements such as fit, sound quality and noise cancellation have been noticeably leveled up along with single-charge battery. Not everybody will care that much about heart-rate monitoring, but for some, it'll be a welcome add.Several new features such as Live Translation will be available for the AirPods Pro 2, so many AirPods Pro 2 owners won't feel the need to upgrade right away. But if you've been using AirPods Pro 2 for a while, it might be worth passing them on to a friend or relative and upgrading to the Pro 3s. They're about as close as earbuds get to being complete: excellent noise cancellation, strong voice-calling performance and sound quality that rivals the very best. Few buds excel in all three areas -- and the Pro 3s manage it while packing in plenty of extra features.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
DAVID CARNOY
Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.