Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
17 September 2025
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
A modified large language model called Delphi-2M analyses a person’s medical records and lifestyle to provide risk estimates for more than 1,000 diseases.
By
Gemma Conroy0
Gemma Conroy
Gemma Conroy is a freelance science journalist based in Mexico City.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
An artificial-intelligence system trained on data from 400,000 people in the United Kingdom can estimate the likelihood that a person will develop cancer and a host of other diseases over the course of 20 years.Credit: Brooks Kraft/Corbis/GettyA new artificial intelligence (AI) tool can forecast a person’s risk of developing more than 1,000 diseases, in some cases providing a prediction decades in advance1.The model, called Delphi-2M, uses health records and lifestyle factors to estimate the likelihood that a person will develop diseases such as cancer, skin diseases and immune conditions up to 20 years ahead of time. Although Delphi-2M was trained only on one data set from the United Kingdom, its multi-disease modelling could one day help clinicians to identify high-risk people, allowing for the early roll-out of preventive measures. The model is described in a study published today in Nature.The tool’s ability to model multiple diseases in one go is “astonishing”, says Stefan Feuerriegel, a computer scientist at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich in Germany, who has developed AI models for medical applications. “It can generate entire future health trajectories,” he says.Oracle of healthResearchers have already developed AI-based tools to predict a person’s risk of developing certain conditions, including some cancers and cardiovascular disease. But most of these tools estimate the risk of only one disease, says study co-author Moritz Gerstung, a data scientist at the German Cancer Research Center in Heidelberg. “A health-care professional would have to run dozens of them to deliver a comprehensive answer,” he says.To address this, Gerstung and his colleagues modified a type of large language model (LLM) called a generative pre-trained transformer (GPT), that forms the underpinning of AI chatbots such as ChatGPT. When asked a question, GPTs provide outputs that, according to their training on vast volumes of data, are statistically probable.An AI revolution is brewing in medicine. What will it look like?The authors designed their modified LLM to forecast a person’s likelihood of developing 1,258 diseases on the basis of their past medical history. The model also incorporates the person’s age, sex, body mass index and health-related habits, such as tobacco use and alcohol consumption. The researchers trained Delphi-2M on data from 400,000 participants of the UK Biobank, a long-term biomedical monitoring study.For most diseases, Delphi-2M’s predictions matched or exceeded the accuracy of those of current models that estimate the risk of developing a single illness. The tool also performed better than a machine-learning algorithm that uses biomarkers — levels of specific molecules or compounds in the body — to predict the risk of several diseases. “It worked astonishingly well,” says Gerstung.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02993-xListen to the related podcast, ‘This AI tool predicts your risk of 1,000 diseases ― by looking at your medical records’.
ReferencesShmatko, A. et al. Nature https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09529-3 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Google AI has better bedside manner than human doctors — and makes better diagnoses
Medical AI can transform medicine — but only if we carefully track the data it touches
Are your organs ageing well? The blood holds clues
AI listens for health conditions
How fast are you ageing? Ordinary brain scans reveal the pace
Subjects
Machine learning
Ageing
Diseases
Latest on:
Machine learning
Can AI chatbots trigger psychosis? What the science says
News 18 SEP 25
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
News Feature 17 SEP 25
Bring us your LLMs: why peer review is good for AI models
Editorial 17 SEP 25
Ageing
Diabetes drug shows anti-ageing effects on chromsomes
Research Highlight 05 SEP 25
Newfound immune cell in mice hints at why inflammation spikes with old age
News 04 SEP 25
How ageing changes our genes — huge epigenetic atlas gives clearest picture yet
News 01 SEP 25
Diseases
Can AI chatbots trigger psychosis? What the science says
News 18 SEP 25
Years of hits to the head prime the brain for decline
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Learning the natural history of human disease with generative transformers
Article 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Related Articles
Google AI has better bedside manner than human doctors — and makes better diagnoses
Medical AI can transform medicine — but only if we carefully track the data it touches
Are your organs ageing well? The blood holds clues
AI listens for health conditions
How fast are you ageing? Ordinary brain scans reveal the pace
Subjects
Machine learning
Ageing
Diseases
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited