Layoff - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Terminology
2
Common abbreviations for reduction in force
3
In the public sector
4
Unemployment compensation
5
Effects
Toggle Effects subsection
5.1
Effects of layoffs in the workplace
5.2
Effects of layoffs to the employee
5.3
Effects of layoffs in the American economy
6
Around the world
7
Mass layoff
Toggle Mass layoff subsection
7.1
United States
8
See also
9
References
10
Further reading
11
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Layoff
19 languages
العربيةDeutschEspañolFrançais한국어हिन्दीMagyar日本語Norsk bokmålPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
WikiquoteWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Involuntary termination of employment of an employee due to business concerns
Not to be confused with Degrowth or Shrinkage.
The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (February 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
BBC Strike Picket outside the Forum, Norwich, UK, 2011
A layoff[1] or downsizing is the temporary suspension or permanent termination of employment of an employee or, more commonly, a group of employees (collective layoff)[2] for business reasons, such as personnel management or downsizing an organization. Originally, layoff referred exclusively to a temporary interruption in work, or employment[3] but this has evolved to a permanent elimination of a position in both British and US English,[1][failed verification] requiring the addition of "temporary" to specify the original meaning of the word. A layoff is not to be confused with wrongful termination.
Laid off workers or displaced workers are workers who have lost or left their jobs because their employer has closed or moved, there was insufficient work for them to do, or their position or shift was abolished (Borbely, 2011).[4][5] Downsizing in a company is defined to involve the reduction of employees in a workforce. Downsizing in companies became a popular practice in the 1980s and early 1990s, since it was seen as a way to deliver better shareholder value by helping reduce the costs of employers (downsizing, 2015). Research on downsizing in the US,[6][7] UK,[8][9][10][11] and Japan[12] suggests that downsizing is being regarded by management as one of the preferred routes to help declining organizations, cutting unnecessary costs, and improve organizational performance.[13] A layoff usually occurs as a cost-cutting measure. A study of 391 downsizing announcements of the S&P 100 firms for the period 1990–2006 found that layoff announcements resulted in a substantial increase in the companies’ stock prices and that the gain was larger when the company had prior layoffs. The authors suggested that the stock price manipulation alone creates a sufficient motivation for publicly traded corporations to adopt the practice of regular layoffs.[14]
Terminology[edit]
Euphemisms are often used to "soften the blow" in the process of firing and being fired.[15][16] The term "layoff" originally meant a temporary interruption in work[3] (and usually pay). The term became a euphemism for permanent termination of employment and now usually requires the addition of "temporary" to refer to the original meaning. Many other euphemisms have been coined for "(permanent) layoff", including "downsizing", "excess reduction", "rightsizing", "leveraging synergies", "delayering", "smartsizing", "redeployment", "workforce reduction", "workforce optimization", "simplification", "force shaping", "recussion", "manage out people",[17] "resource action",[18] and "reduction in force" (also called "RIF", especially in the US government employment sector).[19] "Mass layoff" is defined by the United States Department of Labor as 50 or more workers laid off from the same company around the same time. "Attrition" implies that positions will be eliminated as workers quit or retire. "Early retirement" means workers may quit now yet still remain eligible for their retirement benefits later.
"Redundancy" is a specific legal term in UK labour law with a definition in section 139 of the Employment Rights Act 1996:[20] see Redundancy in United Kingdom law.
When an employer is faced with work of a particular type ceasing or diminishing at a particular location,[21] it may be perceived[by whom?] as obfuscation. Firings imply misconduct or failure while layoffs imply economic forces beyond the employer's and employees' control, especially in the face of a recession.[citation needed]
Common abbreviations for reduction in force[edit]
RIF – A generic reduction in force, of undetermined method. Often pronounced like the word riff rather than spelled out. Sometimes used as a verb, as in "the employees were pretty heavily riffed".
eRIF – Layoff notice by email.
IRIF – Involuntary reduction in force – The employee(s) did not voluntarily choose to leave the company. This usually implies that the method of reduction involved either layoffs, firings, or both, but would not usually imply resignations or retirements. If the employee is fired rather than laid off, the term "with cause" may be appended to indicate that the separation was due to this employee's performance and/or behavior, rather than being financially motivated.
VRIF – Voluntary reduction in force – The employee(s) did play a role in choosing to leave the company, most likely through resignation or retirement. In some instances, a company may exert pressure on an employee to make this choice, perhaps by implying that a layoff or termination would otherwise be imminent, or by offering an attractive severance or early retirement package. Conversely, the company is not obliged to accept an employee's decision and may not accept every employee who volunteers for a VRIF.
WFR – Work force reduction.
In the public sector[edit]
Following the 2008 financial crisis and the Great Recession, the public sector has seen significantly smaller job growth in employment versus the private sector, and layoffs have been used to ensure sustainability.[22] As the public sector declines, the demand for services from the private sector declines as well. Layoffs in the public sector have put limitations on the growth rate of the private sector, inevitably burdening the entire flow of markets.[citation needed]
Unemployment compensation[edit]
Risks of being laid off vary depending on the workplace and country a person is working in. Unemployment compensation in any country or workplace typically has two main factors. The first factor of unemployment compensation depends on the distribution of unemployment benefits in a workplace outlined in an employee handbook. The second factor is the risk of inequality being conditioned upon the political regime type in the country an employee is working in.[23] The amount of compensation will usually depend on what level the employee holds in the company.
Packages may also vary if the employee is laid off, or voluntarily quits in the face of a layoff (VRIF). The method of separation may have an effect on a former employee's ability to collect whatever form of unemployment compensation might be available in their jurisdiction. In many U.S. states, workers who are laid off can file an unemployment claim and receive compensation. Depending on local or state laws, workers who leave voluntarily are generally ineligible to collect unemployment benefits, as are those who are fired for gross misconduct. Also, lay-offs due to a firm's moving production overseas may entitle one to increased re-training benefits. Some companies in the United States utilize Supplemental Unemployment Benefits.[24] Since they were first introduced by organized labor and the Department of Labor in the early 1950s, and first issued in a Revenue Ruling by the IRS in 1956,[25] SUB-Pay Plans have enabled employers to supplement the receipt of state unemployment insurance benefits for employees that experience an involuntary layoff. By establishing severance payments as SUB-Pay benefits, the payments are not considered wages for FICA, FUTA, and SUI tax purposes, and employee FICA tax. To qualify for SUB-Pay benefits, the participant must be eligible for state unemployment insurance benefits and the separation benefit must be paid on a periodic basis. There have also been increasing concerns about the organizational effectiveness of the post-downsized 'anorexic organization'. The benefits, which organizations claim to be seeking from downsizing, center on savings in labor costs, speedier decision making, better communication, reduced product development time, enhanced involvement of employees and greater responsiveness to customers (De Meuse et al. 1997, p. 168). However, some writers draw attention to the 'obsessive' pursuit of downsizing to the point of self-starvation marked by excessive cost-cutting, organ failure and extreme pathological fear of becoming inefficient. Hence 'trimming' and 'tightening belts' are the order of the day.[26]
Effects[edit]
Traditionally, layoffs directly affect the employee. However, the employee terminated is not alone in this. Layoffs affect the workplace environment and the economy as well as the employee. Layoffs have a widespread effect and the three main components of layoff effects are in the workplace, to the employee, and effects to the economy.
One framework to examine the effects on the macro level is PSB, which examines the stakeholders perspective in global downsizing. This framework examines the global perspective of positive and negative stakeholders behavior during downsizing.[27]
Effects of layoffs in the workplace[edit]
Layoffs have remained the greatest way for a company to cut costs. Although from the employer's perspective a layoff is beneficial for the business, layoffs create an uncertainty in the workplace environment and lowers other employees' job security as well as creates an apprehension and fear of termination for the remaining employees, and subsequently lowers overall motivation in the workplace environment. According to Healing the Wounds: Overcoming the Trauma of Layoffs and Revitalizing Downsized Organizations,[28] in the post-layoff environment, there is a need for empathy, tangibility, self-knowledge, and relentlessly seeking customers among the surviving employees. The remaining employees may have feelings of survivors guilt. In order to diminish negative effects of layoffs, Wayne Cascio suggests alternative approaches to layoff and downsizing as "Responsible restructuring" approach.[29] Optimism is critical for rebuilding the workplace environment because employees look to their leaders for stability and predictability. No matter the position in an organization, employees will look for job security.
Effects of layoffs to the employee[edit]
Employees (or former employees in this case) can be affected in several ways. When an employee is laid off temporarily, his or her general trust in long-term work may decrease, reducing expectations upon rehire. After an employee withstands a layoff, the effects can trickle into future employment and attitudes. Any case of layoffs may leave the former employee less inclined to trust future employers, which can lead to behavioral conflicts among co-workers and management. Layoffs can erode confidence, making employees feel insecure about their job performance and career prospects.[30] Despite new employers not being responsible for a prior circumstances, job performance may still be affected by prior layoffs. Many companies work to make layoffs as minimally burdensome to the employee. At times employers may layoff multiple people at once to soften the impact.
Denial stage is the first stage in the emotional reaction to change or layoffs, in which an employee denies that an organization change or layoff will occur.[31]
Anger stage is the second stage of the emotional reaction to downsizing, in which an employee becomes angry at the organization.[31]
Fear stage is the third emotional stage following an announcement of layoff, in which employees worry about how they will survive financially.[31]
Acceptance stage is the fourth and final stage of the emotional reaction to downsizing, in which employees accept that layoffs will occur and are ready to take steps to secure their future.[31]
Effects of layoffs in the American economy[edit]
Layoffs create lower job security overall, and an increased competitiveness for available and opening positions. Layoffs have generally two major effects on the economy and stockholders. The way layoffs affect the economy varies from the industry that is doing the layoffs and the size of the layoff. If an industry that employs a majority of a region (freight in the northeast for example) suffers and has to lay employees off, there will be mass unemployment in an economically rich area. This can have leave ripple effects nationwide. Unemployment is the biggest effect on the economy that can come from layoffs.
Around the world[edit]
In francophone Belgium, the term Procédure Renault has become a synonym for the consultation process leading to mass redundancies, due to a controversial mass layoff and resultant legislation in the late 1990s.
When an employee has been laid off in Australia their employer has to give them redundancy pay, which is also known as severance pay. The only time that a redundancy payment doesn't have to be paid is if an employee is casual, working for a small business or has worked for a business for less than twelve months. The redundancy compensation payment for employees depends on the length of time an employee has worked for an employer which excludes unpaid leave. If an employer can't afford the redundancy payment they are supposed to give their employee, once making them redundant, or they find their employee another job that is suitable for the employee. An employer is able to apply for a reduction in the amount of money they have to pay the employee they have made redundant. An employer can do this by applying to the Fair Work Commission for a redundancy payment reduction.[32]
A layoff is also known as a retrenchment in (South African English). In the UK, permanent termination due to elimination of a position is usually called redundancy.[2] Certain countries (such as Belgium, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Italy, France and Germany), distinguish between leaving the company of one's own free will, in which case the person is not entitled to unemployment benefits, but may receive a onetime payment and leaving a company as part of a reduction in labour force size, in which case the person is entitled to them. A RIF reduces the number of positions, rather than laying off specific people, and is usually accompanied by internal redeployment.
Mass layoff[edit]
United States[edit]
Department of Labor Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN) requires employer "to provide at least 60 calendar days advance written notice of a plant closing and mass layoff affecting 50 or more employees".[33]
See also[edit]
Bureau of Labor Statistics
Bullshit Jobs
Compromise agreement
Displaced workers
Furlough
Global labor arbitrage
Offshoring
Outsourcing
Pseudowork
Replacement migration
Restructuring
Retraining
Severance package
Termination of employment
Trade Adjustment Assistance
Unemployment
Voluntary Redundancy
WARN Act
Work sharing
References[edit]
^ a b "layoff noun – definition in British English Dictionary & Thesaurus – Cambridge Dictionary Online". Dictionary.cambridge.org. Archived from the original on 2012-03-02. Retrieved 2012-03-13.
^ a b "Redundancy: your rights". www.gov.uk. Archived from the original on 2018-11-06. Retrieved 2015-02-11.
^ a b "Labor Terminology". Bulletin of the Bureau of Business Research. 25. Harvard University. Graduate School of Business Administration: 50. 1921. Retrieved 8 January 2017.
^ "Labor force characteristics". Labor Force Statistics from the Current Population Survey. Bureau of Labor Statistics. October 18, 2010. Archived from the original on 11 December 2020. Retrieved 20 October 2010.
^ "Glossary". Bureau of Labor Statistics. Archived from the original on 6 May 2009. Retrieved 20 October 2010.
^ Baumol, William J.; Blinder, Alan S.; Wolff, Edward N. (2003). Downsizing in America: Reality, Causes, and Consequences. Russell Sage Foundation. ISBN 978-1-61044-031-8.[page needed]
^ American Management Association annual surveys since 1990.[full citation needed]
^ Sahdev, Kusum; Vinnicombe, Susan; Tyson, Shaun (January 1999). "Downsizing and the changing role of HR". The International Journal of Human Resource Management. 10 (5): 906–923. doi:10.1080/095851999340224.
^ Chorley, David (May 2002). "How to: Manage downsizing". Financial Management. p. 6. ProQuest 195693766.
^ Mason 2002[full citation needed]
^ Rogers 2002[full citation needed]
^ Mroczkowski, Tomasz; Hanaoka, Masao (May 1997). "Effective rightsizing strategies in Japan and America: Is there a convergence of employment practices?". Academy of Management Perspectives. 11 (2): 57–67. doi:10.5465/ame.1997.9707132151.
^ Mellahi, K; Wilkinson, A (September 2004). Downsizing and Innovation Output: A Review of Literature and Research Propositions. British Academy of Management Conference.
^ Schulz, Ann-Christine; Himme, Alexander (22 November 2022). "Stock market reactions to downsizing announcements: an analysis through an institutional lens". Socio-Economic Review. 20 (4): 1825–1855. doi:10.1093/ser/mwab046.
^ Wilkinson, A (2004). Downsizing, rightsizing and dumbsizing: quality, human resources and sustainability – Total Quality Management (PDF). Vol. 15. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2009-02-25. Retrieved 2009-02-07.
^ Redman, Tom; Wilkinson, Adrian (2006). "Downsizing". In Redman, Tom; Wilkinson, Adrian (eds.). Contemporary Human Resource Management: Text and Cases. FT/Prentice Hall. pp. 356–381. ISBN 978-0-273-68663-7.
^ "Meta Announces Hiring Freeze, Warns Employees of Restructuring". Bloomberg News. 29 September 2022.
^ Claburn, Thomas. "IBM Watson Health layoffs disguised as staff 'redeployment'". www.theregister.com. Retrieved 2022-10-27.
^ "Reductions in Force (RIF)". U.S. Office of Personnel Management. Archived from the original on 2025-09-18. Retrieved 2025-09-18.
^ UK Legislation, Employment Rights Act 1996, Part XI Archived 2020-05-29 at the Wayback Machine, accessed 13 March 2021
^ "Employers Redundancy procedure, Redundancy Policy, Redundancy compliance". Citation.co.uk. Archived from the original on 2013-06-19. Retrieved 2013-08-01.
^ The Great Recession and the jobs crisis. https://www.un.org/esa/socdev/rwss/docs/2011/chapter2.pdf
^ Kim, Wonik (March 2010). "Unemployment Risks and the Origins of Unemployment Compensation". Studies in Comparative International Development. 45 (1): 57–82. doi:10.1007/s12116-009-9057-9.
^ "SUB-Pay Plan Legal Precedent". Subpay.com. Archived from the original on 2012-03-31. Retrieved 2012-03-13.
^ "What are Supplemental Unemployment Benefits?". Total Management Solutions. Archived from the original on June 10, 2011.
^ Tyler, Melissa; Wilkinson, Adrian (September 2007). "The tyranny of corporate slenderness: 'corporate anorexia' as a metaphor for our age". Work, Employment and Society. 21 (3): 537–549. doi:10.1177/0950017007080015.
^ Tzafrir, S. S.; Ben-Gal, H. C.; Dolan, S. L. (2012). "Exploring the etiology of positive stakeholder behavior in global downsizing". Downsizing: Is less still more? (PDF). Cambridge University Press. pp. 389–417. Archived (PDF) from the original on 2021-01-27.
^ Noer, David M. (2009). Healing the Wounds: Overcoming the Trauma of Layoffs and Revitalizing Downsized Organizations. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-0-470-50015-6.[page needed]
^ Cascio, Wayne F. (November 2005). "Strategies for responsible restructuring". Academy of Management Perspectives. 19 (4): 39–50. doi:10.5465/AME.2005.19417906.
^ Brockner, Joel; Davy, Jeanette; Carter, Carolyn (October 1985). "Layoffs, self-esteem, and survivor guilt: Motivational, affective, and attitudinal consequences". Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes. 36 (2): 229–244. doi:10.1016/0749-5978(85)90014-7.
^ a b c d Aamodt, Michael (2014). Industrial/Organizational Psychology an applied approach. Cengage Learning.
^ "Redundancy pay & entitlements". Fair Work Ombudsman. Australian Government. Archived from the original on 2016-04-05.
^ "Plant Closings and Layoffs | U.S. Department of Labor". Archived from the original on 2021-10-09. Retrieved 2021-10-16.
Further reading[edit]
Karlsson, Tobias (2013). "The Dynamics of Downsizing: The Swedish Tobacco Monopoly in the 1920s". Enterprise & Society. 14 (4): 829–853. doi:10.1093/es/kht074. JSTOR 23701766.
Krolikowski, Pawel. Job ladders and earnings of displaced workers (Feb. 2015), Center for Economic and Policy Research. "Workers who suffer job displacement experience surprisingly large and persistent earnings losses. However, standard labour market models fail to explain such a phenomenon. This column explains the persistence of workers' earnings losses by arguing that displaced workers face higher separation probabilities in new jobs, and take substantial time to find their ideal job. The framework also matches empirical findings on the shares of average earnings losses following displacement that are due to reduced employment and lower wages."
Weinstein, Bruce, "Downsizing 101", BusinessWeek magazine, September 12, 2008.
Cameron, Kim S. (June 1994). "Strategies for successful organizational downsizing". Human Resource Management. 33 (2): 189–211. doi:10.1002/hrm.3930330204.
Cascio, Wayne F. (August 2002). "Strategies for responsible restructuring". Academy of Management Perspectives. 16 (3): 80–91. doi:10.5465/ame.2002.8540331. JSTOR 4165870.
Sahdev, Kusum (November 2003). "Survivors' reactions to downsizing: the importance of contextual factors". Human Resource Management Journal. 13 (4): 56–74. doi:10.1111/j.1748-8583.2003.tb00105.x.
External links[edit]
Labor force characteristics, Bureau of Labor Statistics
CASE No.: 2001-ERA-19 A case before the U.S. Department of Labor, wherein the terms RIF, IRIF, and VRIF are commonly used.
APPENDIX D; GLOSSARY OF TERMS A glossary in a U.S. Department of Energy document that includes brief definitions of RIF, IRIF, and VRIF.
Reduction in Force Under OPM's Regulations, United States Office of Personnel Management
UK Redundancy Legal Rights UK specific information on the legal rights of those being made redundant.
Airline Industry Layoffs – by Patrick Smith
Job Losses Tracker (UK-based)
Layoff news and tracker Layoffs news and tracker.
Rising After Redundancy – RTÉ Ireland TV Series
vteEmploymentClassifications
Academic tenure
Casual
Contingent work
Full-time job
Gig worker
Job sharing
Part-time job
Self-employment
Side job
Skilled worker
Journeyman
Technician
Tradesperson
Independent contractor
Labour hire
Temporary work
Laborer
Wage labour
Hiring
Application
Background check
Business networking
Cover letter
Curriculum vitae
Drug testing
Employment contract
Employment counsellor
Executive search
list
Induction programme
Job fair
Job fraud
Job hunting
Job interview
Letter of recommendation
Onboarding
Overqualification
Person–environment fit
Personality–job fit theory
Personality hire
Probation
Realistic job preview
Recruitment
Résumé
Simultaneous recruiting of new graduates
Underemployment
Work-at-home scheme
Roles
Cooperative
Employee
Employer
Internship
Job
Labour hire
Permanent employment
Supervisor
Volunteering
Working class
Blue-collar
Green-collar
Grey-collar
Pink-collar
Precariat
White-collar
Red-collar
New-collar
No-collar
Orange-collar
Scarlet-collar
Black-collar
Gold-collar
Career and training
Apprenticeship
Artisan
Master craftsman
Avocation
Career assessment
Career counseling
Career development
Coaching
Creative class
Education
Continuing education
E-learning
Employability
Further education
Graduate school
Induction training
Knowledge worker
Licensure
Lifelong learning
Overspecialization
Practice-based professional learning
Professional association
Professional certification
Professional development
Professional school
Reflective practice
Retraining
Vocational education
Vocational school
Vocational university
Mentorship
Occupational Outlook Handbook
Practice firm
Profession
Operator
Professional
Tradesman
Vocation
Attendance
Break
Break room
Career break
Furlough
Gap year
Leave of absence
Long service leave
No call, no show
Sabbatical
Sick leave
Stress leave
Time clock
Schedules
35-hour workweek
Four-day week
Eight-hour day
996 working hour system
Flextime
On-call
Overtime
Remote work
Six-hour day
Shift work
Working time
Workweek and weekend
Wages and salaries
Frisch elasticity of labor supply
Global labor arbitrage
Labour economics
Labor share
Labour supply
Living wage
Maximum wage
National average salary
World
Europe
Minimum wage
Canada
Hong Kong
Europe
United States
Price elasticity of demand
Progressive wage
Singapore
Overtime rate
Paid time off
Performance-related pay
Remuneration
Salary cap
Benefits
Annual leave
Casual Friday
Child care
Disability insurance
Health insurance
Life insurance
Marriage leave
Parental leave
Pension
By country
Sick leave
United States
Take-home vehicle
Taxes
Payroll tax
Tax bracket
Income tax
Negative
Disposable income
Salary packaging
Unreported employment
Safety and health
Crunch
Epilepsy and employment
Human factors and ergonomics
Karoshi
List of countries by rate of fatal workplace accidents
Occupational burnout
Occupational disease
Occupational exposure limit
Occupational health psychology
Occupational injury
Occupational noise
Occupational stress
Personal protective equipment
Repetitive strain injury
Right to sit
United States
Sick building syndrome
Work accident
Occupational fatality
Workers' compensation
Workers' right to access the toilet
Workplace health promotion
Workplace phobia
Workplace wellness
Equal opportunity
Affirmative action
Discrimination
Equal pay for equal work
Gender pay gap
Glass ceiling
Infractions
Corporate collapses and scandals
Accounting scandals
Control fraud
Corporate behaviour
Corporate crime
Exploitation of labour
Dress code
Employee handbook
Employee monitoring
Evaluation
Labour law
Sexual harassment
Sleeping while on duty
Wage theft
Whistleblower
Workplace bullying
Workplace harassment
Workplace incivility
Willingness
Boreout
Careerism
Civil conscription
Conscription
Critique of work
Dead-end job
Job satisfaction
McJob
Organizational commitment
Refusal of work
Slavery
Bonded labour
Human trafficking
Labour camp
Penal labour
Peonage
Truck wages
Unfree labour
Wage slavery
Work ethic
Work–life interface
Downshifting
Slow living
Workaholic
Termination
At-will employment
Dismissal
Banishment room
Constructive dismissal
Wrongful dismissal
Employee offboarding
Exit interview
Layoff
Notice period
Pink slip
Resignation
Letter of resignation
Restructuring
Retirement
Mandatory retirement
Microretirement
Retirement planning
Retirement spend-down
Severance package
Golden handshake
Golden parachute
Turnover
Unemployment
Barriers to entry
Discouraged worker
Economic depression
Great Depression
Long Depression
Frictional unemployment
Full employment
Graduate unemployment
Involuntary unemployment
Jobless recovery
Phillips curve
Recession
Great Recession
Job losses caused by the Great Recession
Lists of recessions
Recession-proof job
Reserve army of labour
Structural unemployment
Technological unemployment
Types of unemployment
Unemployment benefits
Unemployment Convention, 1919
Unemployment extension
List of countries by unemployment rate
Employment-to-population ratio
List
Wage curve
Youth unemployment
Public programs
Workfare
Unemployment insurance
Make-work job
Job creation program
Job creation index
Job guarantee
Employer of last resort
Guaranteed minimum income
Right to work
Historical:
U.S.A.:
Civil Works Administration
Works Progress Administration
Comprehensive Employment and Training Act
See also
Bullshit job
Busy work
Credentialism and educational inflation
Emotional labor
Evil corporation
Going postal
Kiss up kick down
Labor rights
Make-work job
Narcissism in the workplace
Post-work society
Presenteeism
Psychopathy in the workplace
Sunday scaries
Slow movement (culture)
Toxic leader
Toxic workplace
Wage compression
Working poor
Workhouse
See also templates
Aspects of corporations
Aspects of jobs
Aspects of occupations
Aspects of organizations
Aspects of workplaces
Corporate titles
Critique of work
Organized labor
Authority control databases NationalFranceBnF dataOtherIdRef
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Layoff&oldid=1312100369"
Categories: Reports of the Bureau of Labor StatisticsTermination of employmentLabour lawEmployment compensationOffshoringUnemploymentHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from February 2025All articles with incomplete citationsArticles with incomplete citations from February 2025Articles with incomplete citations from March 2022Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataArticles with limited geographic scope from February 2020All articles with failed verificationArticles with failed verification from January 2017Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from March 2011All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2022Articles with unsourced statements from October 2020
This page was last edited on 18 September 2025, at 16:53 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Layoff
19 languages
Add topic