Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
By
Rich Woods
Published 1 day ago
Hello! I'm the Editor-in-Chief of XDA, and I've been reporting on all things consumer tech since 2013. More recently, I've had more of a focus on Windows, and I've reviewed pretty much every mainstream laptop under the sun. If you see me somewhere, come say hello and let me ask you awkward questions about why you use the tech that you use.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
It's new CPU season, and Qualcomm is beating Intel and AMD out of the gate to be the first at announcing next-gen laptop CPUs. They're called the Snapdragon X2 Elite and Elite Extreme. As always, there are reference designs showcasing the product, and this year, they're absolute bangers. To be fair, they're always pretty cool. When the Snapdragon 8cx Gen 3 was announced, Qualcomm actually let me spend the duration of the show with the reference design to get a feel for it. They're usually red too, adding a little bit of flair. However, this year, I was so impressed that I felt like I needed to throw some images up on XDA.
The coolest Windows mini PCs there are
Not that there are that many on the market
When I first saw this thin, circular disk, I thought it was a wireless charging pad. It wouldn't be out of the question for a red, Snapdragon-branded accessory to be sitting next to the real PCs. It's not though. This is a proper mini PC. It doesn't do anything that your average mini PC doesn't do. None of these designs do. They're just so cool. There isn't a product like this on the market at all.
Here's a mini PC that's docked inside of a monitor base. Not only is it something different by design, it's just to slim, small, and beautifully red. I just want it inside of my home.
There were some more conventional products too
Tablets and laptops are still the main market, after all
All of the reference designs shown use the new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme, and most were red. There was a thin and light tablet with a folio stand and attachable keyboard. And of course, there's a regular old laptop.
This laptop was the only one that's not red, and it wasn't part of the main display. The reason is because these are the units we were running benchmarks on, but I can't talk about that quite yet. I was allowed to only minimize all windows, move all signage, and snap a pic for this article. This one has a haptic touchpad with some illuminated capacitive buttons above it. It's neat.
You will never be able to buy these
When a company announces a concept at CES or at some other trade show, you can dream that one day, that company will bring that product to market. Sometimes it happens. With Qualcomm's reference designs, you can forget it. All you can hope for is that some other company will take inspiration and make their own version, but it won't come in that beautiful Snapdragon red. When the Snapdragon X Elite was first announced two years ago, Qualcomm actually planned to sell a mini PC, the Snapdragon Dev Kit. It actually ended up getting scrapped, with very few people receiving their preorders and everyone getting a refund. As it turns out, being an OEM is hard, and Qualcomm realized that the OEM job is best left to OEMs. It should change its mind though, if only for the few minutes it takes to charge my credit card to sell me these products.
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
Qualcomm
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
I tried out the brand new KDE Linux distro, and it's already my favorite
3 days ago
I should have left Adobe for this open-source graphics stack sooner
2 days ago
Windows updates are boring again, and I'm happier than ever to be on macOS
2 days ago
3 automation recipes that move files exactly where they belong
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
30 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Forget VRAM — these 5 GPU trends are way more disturbing
I set up my own NTP server to keep all of my devices totally synchronized
This local AI agent running on a Raspberry Pi 5 is the perfect smart home addition
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.