This HASS.Agent alternative is the best data reporting application for Home Assistant users on Linux
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This HASS.Agent alternative is the best data reporting application for Home Assistant users on Linux
By
Adam Conway
Published 6 days ago
I’m Adam Conway, an Irish technology fanatic with a BSc in Computer Science and I'm XDA’s Lead Technical Editor. My Bachelor’s thesis was conducted on the viability of benchmarking the non-functional elements of Android apps and smartphones such as performance, and I’ve been working in the tech industry in some way or another since 2017.
In my spare time, you’ll probably find me playing Counter-Strike or VALORANT, and you can reach out to me at adam@xda-developers.com, on Twitter as @AdamConwayIE, on Instagram as adamc.99, or u/AdamConwayIE on Reddit.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Home Assistant is a powerful way to connect all of your devices, self-hosted services, and build automations between all of them. However, connecting your computer on an operating system level can be a confusing endeavor.
HASS.Agent is the best way to do that on Windows, but a recent Windows Defender update has seen the most recent stable version of the application become unusable thanks to the
expiration of the certificate that the WinRing0 driver uses. For Linux users who could never use HASS.Agent, though, there's a great alternative that's even better than HASS.Agent, and it's called Go HASS Agent.
First and foremost, despite being an application targeted at Linux users, it can actually build and run on Windows, it just won't support most of what actually makes it useful. That's because all of the monitoring is built for Linux users, but you could, theoretically, add your own functionality with ease for Windows to report the same data. When you install it and authorize the client, it'll be added as a "Mobile App" to Home Assistant, where you can see all of the reported data. With MQTT support, too, it adds additional buttons and features. If you use Linux, Go HASS Agent is a must for your Home Assistant install, and manages to do everything and more that HASS.Agent could do on Windows. If you're still stuck using Windows, there's a beta build of HASS.Agent 2.2.0 that removes the Libre Hardware Monitor library.
Go HASS Agent is the best Linux reporter for Home Assistant
It has everything
Go HASS Agent is an incredibly simple application written in Go, and it can report practically everything you can think of from your system to your Home Assistant instance. There are webcam controls, login screen controls, media, disk reporting, CPU usage, and so much more. You can configure practically everything, and you can even send data back to the Linux host with ease.
For example, you can send a notification back to the Linux host using
MQTT, as Go HASS Agent will subscribe to the "gohassagent" MQTT topic to listen for controls. All you need to use is the "mqtt.publish" service in Home Assistant. You can even create your own sensors using scripts, so that you can report your own data if it's not natively supported by Go HASS Agent.
As for the reason these sensors are split across the Mobile App integration and the MQTT integration is due to a Home Assistant limitation, as not all of these controls can be shown in the one place. It's one of the only minor issues I have with the application, as the rest is phenomenal and better than even the Windows-only HASS.Agent.
However, what you do get are a lot of controls across the two of these. The full list can be found on the Go HASS Agent GitHub, but here are just a few:
Media controls (the player must support MPRIS)
CPU usage
Power profiles
Networking state
Disk usage
Memory usage
CPU vulnerabilities
Hardware sensors
Most of these use the Linux D-Bus for monitoring and reporting, which allows for inter-process communication on Linux. While one could port the same functionality to Windows (and the application has been designed to be extensible in that manner), it hasn't been done just yet. Given that this is a community project, though, someone may do so in the future.
If you're a Linux user, it'll work out of the box. When you start it, it will scan your network to look for Home Assistant instances. If it can't find your instance, you can enter the IP address manually to log in. You can then configure MQTT, restart it, and it will report additional details to your MQTT server too and allow for commands to be sent. Once installed, you can immediately start using it!
Go HASS Agent is one of the best Home Assistant tools I've used
Windows users still have options
I've used HASS.Agent on Windows for quite a long time, and I use the Home Assistant application on my Mac. On my Mac, it's basically just the iPad version of the Home Assistant app, and the HASS.Agent Windows application is more or less its own thing that reports to an MQTT server. It works quite similarly, though, and you can send notifications and other information, too. If you're a Linux user, I highly recommend trying out Go HASS Agent. It took me five minutes to set up, and an MQTT server is optional if you don't have one set up. The only difficulty I've faced is getting Spotify show up as a media player, though I discovered it has limited MPRIS support which may be the cause. I'm unsure if the agent can properly read the data from Spotify to identify what I'm listening to, but then that's a Spotify issue, not a Go HASS Agent problem. Otherwise, Windows users can install the beta version of HASS.Agent, which removes the dependency on WinRing0 for collecting hardware details. As a result, it now can't read GPU temperature, but all other features are present alongside new ones. That includes the following new sensors:
HumanPresence
NamedActiveWindow
AccentColor (for identifying Windows accent colors)
On top of that, you get MQTT WebSocket support, button helpers, and more. For Linux users who previously relied on IoPC to report their system data to their MQTT server for processing in Home Assistant, there's now an even better option that mirrors what HASS.Agent can do, too. Hopefully it can get Windows support in the future for those who want to use it!
Software and Services
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
This 17MB Linux distro runs on just about any PC
Sep 14, 2025
Indiana Jones and the Great Circle: The Order of Giants DLC is a minor distraction with a shallow payoff
7 days ago
Microsoft begins its quest to absorb every PC storefront you know and love into one app
Sep 15, 2025
This Raspberry Pi project turned it into the ultimate travel gadget
Today's best deals
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
41 minutes ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
3 hours ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
4 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
You don’t need to spend too much money to start your home lab - here’s how you can do so for cheap
5 reasons watercooling is a waste for most PC users
You can win an Asus ROG Ally X by declaring your favorite game: here's how
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.