Tempur-Pedic Mattress Review 2024 - Our Honest Review - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Tempur-Pedic Mattress Guide 2025: Every Tempur-Pedic Mattress Tested
Tempur-Pedic has been a trusted name in mattresses for years. We reviewed the brand’s lineup to help you find the best one for your sleep style.
Written by
Owen Poole
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Apr 16, 2025
Owen Poole Senior Video Producer Owen Poole, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been producing sleep video content in the wellness space for over three years. After earning his certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, he has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest. Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, Owen has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. Before he was writing about sleep, he graduated as a Digital Communication Arts major from Oregon State University. The current mattress Owen sleeps on is the Casper Nova Hybrid since it helps keep his spine in a comfortable, neutral position. When Owen isn't reviewing products, he loves to run, cycle and cook healthy food. Pizza is his kryptonite.
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$2,199 at Tempur-Pedic
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$2199
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$2,199 at Tempur-Pedic
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on April 16, 2025 at 11:47 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Owen Poole
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Owen Poole Senior Video Producer Owen Poole, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been producing sleep video content in the wellness space for over three years. After earning his certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, he has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest. Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, Owen has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. Before he was writing about sleep, he graduated as a Digital Communication Arts major from Oregon State University. The current mattress Owen sleeps on is the Casper Nova Hybrid since it helps keep his spine in a comfortable, neutral position. When Owen isn't reviewing products, he loves to run, cycle and cook healthy food. Pizza is his kryptonite.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 8.5 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Back sleeper
Combo sleeper
Side sleeper
Stomach sleeper
Score Breakdown
Performance
9
/10
Policies
6
/10
Durability
8
/10
Features
8
/10
Pros and Cons
Pros
Pressure-relieving memory foam feel
Offers hybrid and foam models
Mattress firmness profiles that suit all sleeping positions
Cooling abilities in its Breeze models
Cons
Expensive price tag
Dense feel can be hard to switch positions on
Table of Contents
Tempur-Pedic Mattress Guide 2025: Every Tempur-Pedic Mattress Tested
Video: Tempur-Pedic mattress review
A brief history of Tempur-Pedic
What will you get with Tempur-Pedic no matter what?
Tempur-Pedic mattress lineup
Tempur-Pedic mattress costs
Tempur-Pedic mattress policies
Which Tempur-Pedic mattress should you get?
How does Tempur-Pedic compare to similar mattress brands?
When you're looking for a good premium mattress, memory foam may be one of the first mattress types to come to mind. The way Tempur-Pedic has mastered its memory foam options makes it a top brand. These materials and the brand's reputation has led its beds toward being more expensive. But as a good memory foam mattress can last decades, the investment can be worthwhile if researched properly.Tempur-Pedic's current online mattress lineup includes six mattresses -- plus a truly over-the-top $10,000+, fan-cooled Tempur ActiveBreeze Smart Bed system for those who sleep hotter than nuclear reactors. But it can be challenging to dial in which one will best fit your sleep style and body type. In this mattress guide, I'll go over the features all Tempur-Pedic mattresses share and get into the benefits of each series and individual mattress to help demystify the Tempur-Pedic lineup.
CNET's Jon Gomez testing the Tempur-Pedic LuxeBreeze mattress. Tempur-Pedic/Screenshot by CNETVideo: Tempur-Pedic mattress reviewWatch me review the Tempur-Pedic mattresses.A brief history of Tempur-Pedic
Jon Gomez/CNETTempur-Pedic was the first brand to popularize the use of memory foam in mattresses, which the brand now often calls "Tempur Material." This type of foam was originally developed by NASA to help improve the cushioning provided by cushions for aircraft that subjected people to G-forces. It was also used in medical settings to help prevent pain and bed sores of patients who needed to be immobilized for extended periods of time.  Eventually, memory foam entered the public domain in the early 1990s. Tempur-Pedic thought the material would work well in consumer mattresses, and it was clearly right to think so because Tempur-Pedic is still one of the biggest, most popular mattress brands to this day. What will you get with Tempur-Pedic no matter what?Tempur-Pedic mattress feel
Wes Ott/CNETThere are quite a few things all six Tempur-Pedic mattresses have in common, the biggest thing being the mattress feel. All of the Tempur-Pedic mattresses, from the more affordable Cloud mattress to the expensive Luxe Breeze, all share a classic, dense memory foam feel.When you first lie down on a mattress with this type of feel, it will feel pretty firm at first (especially if your room is cold), and then you'll slowly start to sink into the top layers of foam as it conforms to your body's shape. It has a body-conforming quality that can relieve pressure on joints like your hips, shoulders and even your lower back.The hallmark of a classic memory foam feel like this is its lack of responsiveness. When you press down on it and remove your hand, the foam takes a significant amount of time to snap back into its original shape. This can deter some sleepers from tossing and turning at night, which can lead to more restful sleep, but conversely, some sleepers sometimes report feeling "stuck" in a memory foam bed like Tempur-Pedic. It really comes down to personal preference with a distinct feel like this.I was never a fan of this type of feel, but after sleeping on the Tempur Pro Breeze for close to a year, it's grown on me a lot. I find that most nights I fall asleep in one position and wake up in the same position. My sleep tracker has a "restless moments" statistic and my score is almost always rated as "excellent" on the Pro Breeze, which you'll get with any Tempur-Pedic bed.Tempur-Pedic motion isolation
Wes Ott/CNETThe other big thing you'll get with any Tempur-Pedic mattress is excellent motion isolation performance. You may remember these old commercials from Tempur-Pedic showing off this feature. It recently started running ads with a similar purpose called the "jiggle test," and I have to say these beds live up to the hype. In fact, the main reason I made the switch to a Tempur-Pedic at home was that my partner is a light sleeper and struggled with waking up in the middle of the night on our previous mattress. The Tempur Pro Breeze has solved that issue and any of these Tempur-Pedic mattresses should do the same. This type of memory foam performs the best at deadening the impact of your partner tossing and turning. For this reason, Tempur-Pedic is popular for couples. Tempur-Pedic mattress lineupTempur Cloud mattress
Wes Ott/CNETThe Tempur Cloud mattress is the most affordable bed in the brand's lineup and it is pretty unique as well because of its delivery method. It is the only bed from Tempur-Pedic that ships rolled up in a bag or box instead of being delivered flat through "white glove delivery." The Tempur Cloud is meant to be the brand's answer to bed-in-a-box brands like Casper, Leesa and Nectar. It's available in only one firmness option -- a medium -- so it will be generally accommodating for all sleeping positions: back, stomach, side and combination. The Tempur Cloud is also available in a hybrid for extra cost, which subs the dense support foam for individually wrapped pocketed coils. The coil model will be slightly more responsive than the foam version and is a better option for heavier people because it provides more long-term durability. This is the most affordable mattress available from Tempur-Pedic, with the Cloud retailing at $1,999 for a queen-size. Despite its more affordable price, it is not the one I recommend to most sleepers because it does a below-average job at regulating sleeping temperature, especially in comparison to the rest of the Tempur-Pedic beds. I have seen the Tempur Cloud go on steep discount, bringing the queen-size price down to $1,399, which then makes it a much better option, but at full retail price I don't recommend this bed.Tempur Adapt mattress
Wes Ott/CNETThe Tempur Adapt mattress is the second most affordable bed from Tempur-Pedic, and in my opinion, it is also the best value. It has a very similar construction to the Tempur Cloud, with a foam and coil option. It has the same firmness profile, but it has a cover that is noticeably cool to the touch to aid in temperature regulation.  It also comes with complimentary white glove delivery and removal of your old mattress for only $2,199, which is only $200 more than the Cloud mattress. I think the benefits of the Tempur Adapt are well worth the extra $200, and the main reason someone would want to get the Cloud instead is if they want the "bed-in-a-box" shopping experience. Tempur ProAdapt mattress
Jon Gomez/CNETThe Tempur ProAdapt is an upgraded version of the base model Tempur Adapt. The mattress is a bit thicker, with more material (12 inches versus 11 inches). It has a slightly stronger cooling factor and the cover itself can be unzipped to help mitigate the cooling factor, which is nice in the winter months when you don't necessarily want or need a cooling mattress. I took advantage of this feature sleeping on the Pro Breeze mattress.The biggest differences between the ProAdapt and the Adapt are firmness and pricing. The ProAdapt is available in three firmness options, with soft, medium and firm models, as well as a hybrid in the medium model only. If you want a Tempur-Pedic mattress that's especially soft or firm, the ProAdapt is one of the few beds that has those firmness options. I think the ProAdapt is better than the base model Adapt, but it comes at a significant cost. A queen-size ProAdapt retails for $3,399, which is about $1,200 more than the Adapt. Tempur LuxeAdapt mattressTo be honest, I don't fully understand why someone would choose the LuxeAdapt mattress over the ProAdapt mattress. The features are nearly identical, the differences being the LuxeAdapt having an extra inch of material and a slightly stronger cooling factor. Also, for some reason, the LuxeAdapt only has a medium firmness profile in a hybrid model, while the ProAdapt has a medium profile in both hybrid and foam models.The LuxeAdapt is also significantly more expensive than the already pricey ProAdapt, coming in at $4,299 for a queen-size. In my opinion, if you have that kind of budget for a new mattress, you might as well look at the Breeze models. Tempur ProBreeze mattress
Jon Gomez/CNETThe ProBreeze mattress is the first of two mattresses in the "Breeze Collection" and it's the mattress I've been sleeping on for just shy of a year. Its construction is ever so slightly different from the LuxeAdapt to make the ProBreeze one of the coolest sleeping beds we've ever tested. According to Tempur-Pedic, the ProBreeze will sleep up to five degrees cooler than the average mattress -- I cannot vouch for that specific temperature, but it does sleep very cool, and it was probably the only reason I was able to get OK sleep during a several-week window during the summer without working air conditioning. The ProBreeze is only available in a medium and medium hybrid model for some reason, but it is also not much more expensive than the LuxeAdapt and it has a stronger cooling factor which many sleepers are looking for, and I think most people should look at the ProBreeze and ProAdapt over the LuxeAdapt.Tempur LuxeBreeze mattress
The LuxeBreeze mattress may look similar to the ProBreeze, but it sleepers cooler and has two firmness options. Jon Gomez/CNETThe LuxeBreeze mattress is the most high-end, expensive mattress available from Tempur-Pedic and I think it's the best. It has a stronger cooling factor than the ProBreeze; according to Tempur-Pedic, it has double the cooling and is available in soft, medium-firm hybrid, and firm models. I don't fully understand why the medium is only available with coils while the Pro Breeze, Adapt and ProAdapt have a medium firmness profile with a foam support layer. The LuxeBreeze is significantly more expensive than the already expensive ProBreeze, retailing for $5,599 in a queen size, which makes the LuxeBreeze one of the most expensive beds we have ever tested. Tempur-Pedic mattress costsThe Tempur-Pedic mattress models are not cheap. At the low end, there's an entry-level model for those who want to save money but still get a Tempur-Pedic bed, but you're still going to have to fork out over $1,000 for it. The more premium the mattress, the higher the cost; the Breeze mattresses are some of the most expensive beds I've ever seen. You can get your Tempur-Pedic mattress for less if you purchase around a holiday or major promo time. Prices below are without discounts, which they do offer every now and then:Tempur-Cloud: Prices start at around $1,699 for a twin and go up to about $2,399 for a king.Tempur-Adapt: Prices start at $1,699 for a twin and go up to $2,899 for a king.Tempur-ProAdapt: Prices start at $2,899 for a twin and go up to $4,099 for a king.Tempur-LuxeAdapt: Prices start at $3,799 for a twin long and go up to $4,999 for a king.Tempur ProBreeze: Prices start at $4,099 for a twin long mattress and go up to $5,299 for a king.Tempur LuxeBreeze: Prices start at $5,099 for a twin long mattress and go up to $6,200 for a king.Tempur-Pedic mattresses are expensive and are often out of budget. Tempur-Pedic often offers generous deals on its best-selling mattresses.Tempur-Pedic mattress policies
Wes Ott/CNETFree shippingYou won't be paying any extra upfront cost for shipping any Tempur-Pedic mattress, but its delivery method is different than most beds. It might still arrive in a box, but it won't be rolled packed in plastic, and a local delivery team will do all the heavy lifting to set up the bed and will even take away your old mattress if you want them to. The only exception to this is the Tempur Cloud which has more of a "bed-in-a-box" experience where you have to unbox it yourself.90-night trial All Tempur-Pedic mattresses come with a slightly shorter than standard 90-night trial period to determine if you actually like the mattress and want to keep it long-term. Keep in mind that it can take a month or longer for your body to adjust to a new mattress, no matter how well-suited it is to your sleeping preferences. It took about a month and a half for me to get used to sleeping on the Pro Breeze, and I knew in the first two months that I wouldn't be replacing it, so I think 90 nights is enough, but other brands offer longer trials. Return policyAt any point after the first 30 nights post-delivery you decide the mattress isn't for you for any reason, you can return it and get a refund minus a return fee of at least $175, which is steeper than what we usually see with brands that don't have free returns.WarrantyAll Tempur-Pedic mattresses are backed by a standard 10-year warranty. If you buy a mattress online, a 10-year warranty is the minimum you should expect.Which Tempur-Pedic mattress should you get?
Jon Gomez/CNETI think the vast majority of people interested in Tempur-Pedic will be more than happy with the base model Tempur Adapt mattress. Most sleepers enjoy a mattress with a medium firmness profile or can at least get by on it, and the Tempur Adapt gives you the dense memory foam feel associated with Tempur-Pedic at a reasonable price with better temperature regulation than the only slightly more affordable Cloud mattress. If you are dead set on Tempur-Pedic but know you want a firm or soft mattress, then I would save up for the ProAdapt mattress for the additional firmness options -- and if budget isn't a huge factor in your mattress choice than the LuxeBreeze will keep you sleeping comfortably cool for the foreseeable future.I never used to understand the hype around Tempur-Pedic mattresses, which is part of the reason I wanted to try one for an extended period at home, and I have to say, I get it now. I find the Tempur ProBreeze mattress to be incredibly comfortable, and because of the slow-to-respond memory foam, I find myself getting very restful sleep. I barely toss and turn at night and more often than not, I will wake up feeling legitimately well-rested. How does Tempur-Pedic compare to similar mattress brands?Tempur-Pedic vs. Nectar SleepThe Nectar brand makes six different mattresses and recently did a large update of its mattress line. There's the Nectar Classic and Classic Hybrid, the Premier and Premier Hybrid and the Luxe and Luxe Hybrid. All six mattresses use memory foam as the primary comfort layer and provide a feel similar to that of Tempur-Pedic. The beds from Tempur-Pedic have a more traditional, classic memory foam feel like the new Nectars are a bit more responsive. Tempur-Pedic beds are high quality overall, but the Nectar lineup is drastically more affordable than Tempur-Pedic, with the Nectar Classic as low as $649 for a queen-size. The Nectar Luxe Hybrid is priced lower than the Tempur Cloud mattress. It's great for someone who wants a memory foam feel in their mattress but doesn't have the budget for a Tempur-Pedic mattress. Nectar Classic
$1,563 at Nectar
Tempur-Pedic vs. Puffy The Puffy brand makes four different mattresses that all feature a significant amount of memory foam. The Puffy Lux Hybrid specifically is the one that feels the most similar to a Tempur-Pedic to me, and the Puffy Monarch which has some latex foam in its construction feels the least like a Tempur-Pedic.After a discount, the Puffy Lux Hybrid is more affordable than even the Tempur Cloud mattress but the Puffy Royal and Monarch are comparably priced to Tempur-Pedic. Puffy Lux Hybrid
$2,749 at Puffy
Tempur-Pedic mattress FAQs
Can I find Tempur-Pedic beds in stores?
Yes, Tempur-Pedic stores exist in many areas in the US and can be found at other physical mattress stores.
Do Tempur-Pedic mattresses sleep cool?
The Tempur Adapt line does a nice job at sleeping temperature neutral and the Breeze line has strong active cooling features.
Is Tempur-Pedic good for couples?
Yes, as long as you both agree on a dense memory foam feel, all Tempur-Pedic beds have excellent motion isolation, which is great for couples.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.