Episode #144 – Little lungs, big risks: the RSV threat to infants
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Home/
Podcasts/
Episode/
Science in 5/
Episode #144 – Little lungs, big risks: the RSV threat to infants
Episode #144 – Little lungs, big risks: the RSV threat to infants
25 September 2025
|
video (webinar)
Did you know that respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the leading cause of infant hospitalizations worldwide? Each year it claims over 100 000 young lives. In this Science in 5 episode, WHO’s Dr Daniel Feikin shares how new immunization options can protect your baby.
Presented by
Vismita Gupta-Smith
Produced by
Department of Communications (DCO)
04:27
Alternative media
Related links
WHO's work on respiratory syncytial virus
Transcript
VGS This will surprise you. Nearly every child is infected by this virus before the age of two. For most, it is mild. But it is also the leading cause of infant hospitalizations, putting nearly 10 000 infants in hospitals every day. We are talking about RSV or respiratory syncytial virus. And our expert today is Doctor Daniel Feikin. So, let's talk about the global impact of RSV. What should people know about this virus and who does it impact?Many people think cholera is a disease of the past, but it really isn't. In fact, in the recent years, as many as 30 countries from across the globe have been reporting outbreaks every year. What do you need to know about cholera and how can you prevent it? Welcome, Kate. So, what is cholera and why is it still on the rise?DF Thank you Vismita. RSV is a highly contagious virus is spread by sneezing, coughing, even touching contaminated surfaces. In fact, every child is infected before their second birthday, and every year it causes 33 million cases of lower respiratory tract infection like pneumonia and bronchiolitis in young children. It causes over 3 million hospitalizations each year, and it tends to fill up hospital beds in the RSV season. But the most concerning is that it leads to over 100 000 deaths each year in children. Half of those in children under six months of age.VGS So as a parent, that worries me. What are the symptoms that parents should be looking out for?DF Well, RSV typically starts as a common cold. So runny nose, coughing, sneezing. But it can get very serious. And when that happens the child has wheezing. They have difficulty feeding. They're very sleepy. They have difficulty breathing. And they can even get blue lips and blue fingernails. These are medical emergencies. And if your child has any of those symptoms, you should take them in to be seen by a medical professional immediately.VGS So how can parents prevent their infants getting RSV?DF Well, there's good news about that. Now, after decades of research and lots of frustration. We now have two effective immunization products against RSV. The first one is a vaccine that can be given to pregnant women in her third trimester, and she will pass on antibodies to her unborn baby so that when her baby is born, he or she already has antibodies, which will protect that baby through six months of age.The second product is called a monoclonal antibody, and it's given directly to the child like a vaccine as soon as possible after birth. And it also will protect that baby through six months of age. VGS So that's great news. Are there additional ways parents can protect their babies?DF Yes there is. Parents can wash their hands to prevent passing on viruses to their babies. They shouldn't smoke around their babies, and they should avoid contact with people who have respiratory illnesses. But the most important way to prevent RSV in a young baby is to get them immunized. Now, the high season for RSV tends to be in the fall and winter, so now is a good time to ask your doctor about RSV immunization. If you're pregnant, or if you have a newborn at home.VGS It's difficult for parents to see their children fall sick, and you, as a WHO expert, have also experienced this as a parent. Please share that with us.DF That's right. I lived and worked in Kenya for a number of years and every year during the RSV season, I would see the hospital wards fill up with children having difficulty breathing. Sometimes there'd be 2 or 3 per bed. They'd be sharing oxygen tubes through a single oxygen, and it was really a chaotic and really scary time in the hospitals. But then it hit even closer to home. My wife had gone back to the US to deliver our second baby, and our older son, who was two at the time, developed RSV, got very severe and was hospitalized.By that time, I'd gone back to Kenya, so she was alone with a newborn and a sick child in the hospital, and I was half a world away. So, it was really a terrifying experience. Fortunately, he did get better, but I do wish that we had these immunization products back that would have saved our family a lot of traumatic experiences.VGS Scary story, and thank you for sharing that. So for parents out there, there are vaccines. There are ways to prevent this so that you can keep your infants safe. That was science in five today. Until next time then, stay safe, stay healthy and stick with science.
Speaker key
DF
Daniel Feikin
VGS
Vismita
Gupta-Smith
View all episodes
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO