Equity in science is a beautiful lie — and I’m done pretending
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
world view
article
Equity in science is a beautiful lie — and I’m done pretending
Download PDF
WORLD VIEW
16 September 2025
Equity in science is a beautiful lie — and I’m done pretending
Science isn’t really moving towards equity; institutions are just perfecting the appearance of equity. We need to build an alternative system.
By
Dolors Armenteras ORCID: http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0922-72980
Dolors Armenteras
Dolors Armenteras is professor of landscape ecology at the Department of Biology, National University of Colombia, Bogotá, Colombia.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
For years, I thought equity in science was possible. I believed it in meeting rooms to which I had been invited to speak, until I realized that I had not been invited to shape the discussion. I believed it in working groups that applauded diversity, until I noticed that my ideas only landed when echoed by someone else. And international organizations regularly sought me out, but it was hardly ever for a leadership role.Academia needs a more honest, scientific approach to DEIIn 2021, I proposed ways to build healthier collaborations between countries with unequal resources: currently they benefit mainly the wealthier partner (D. Armenteras Nature Ecol. Evol. 5, 1193–1194; 2021). The article resonated with scientists across Latin America, Africa and Asia, who thanked me for exposing these skewed partnerships. But what also stood out to me was that none of the committees and organizations that had so often solicited my input got in touch.Many scholars from historically overexploited countries (often referred to as the global south) expected that exposing the problem would trigger change. Four years on, I see it clearly: the scientific system was never designed for equity. For people whose privilege stems from geography, institutional reputation and inherited networks, the system works perfectly the way it is. That’s why institutions focus only on improved access and optics. They look like they are changing, but the same people retain control.I still believe in science and in justice. But I no longer think that power can be shared equitably in the current system. In 2023, I was invited to contribute to a global map charting the use of controlled fire in ecosystem management. This meant condensing 25 years of research into a 40-minute questionnaire for a chance to win an artwork made by an Indigenous artisan and, perhaps, be invited to a workshop. It was written in Spanish and framed as inclusive. But it exposed how the system works: extract specialist knowledge at low cost and mostly without giving credit, repackage it into global claims and call it collaboration. I declined.Decolonize scientific institutions, don’t just diversify themIn 2025, I was invited to contribute to a project developing a global standard for gathering fire data. It used all the right words: co-production, inclusion and diversity. It cited my work. But I wasn’t being invited to co-design or co-lead the project, or even as a peer — only to “contribute regional input”. Time commitment: less than 20 hours. Visibility: none. Influence: symbolic. When I declined, explaining my reasons, I received two replies. One was defensive: “You know I’d never reach out with a symbolic request,” sidestepping my actual concerns. The other was polite, affirming the project’s importance but failing to address its asymmetry. Neither academic offered co-authorship or fresh terms. Nothing changed. These weren’t bad people. That’s the hardest part. They were playing by the rules of a system that rewards extractive collaboration — especially when it’s wrapped in the language of equity.The system doesn’t thrive just because of the people at the top. It holds strong because many scientists in less-privileged positions want to be included. Sometimes we are chosen — not for our ideas or our leadership, but because we tick the right box. A woman from Latin America, visible and qualified. But we don’t become a peer. Our work is not cited as often. Our students become local guides instead of co-authors. Grants continue to be written without us.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
Nature 645, 561 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02916-w
Reprints and permissions
Competing Interests
The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles
Decolonize scientific institutions, don’t just diversify them
‘Silence is complicity’ — universities must fight the anti-DEI crackdown
The financial shackling of historically Black universities in the United States
From exploitation to empowerment: how researchers can protect Indigenous peoples’ rights to own and control their data
Academia needs a more honest, scientific approach to DEI
Black women on the academic tightrope: four scholars weigh in
Subjects
Scientific community
Society
Careers
Latest on:
Scientific community
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
News 17 SEP 25
Society
People are more likely to cheat when they delegate tasks to AI
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Fertility declines are no cause for concern, history shows
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
A population plunge could help to mitigate the global biodiversity crisis
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Careers
Will the public support basic science? A new non-profit aims to find out
Career News 17 SEP 25
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
‘Lipstick on a pig’: how to fight back against a peer-review bully
Career Feature 15 SEP 25
Jobs
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry
City University of Hong Kong (CityUHK) is one of the world’s leading universities, known for innovation, creativity and research.  We are now seeki...
Hong Kong (HK)
City University of Hong Kong
Related Articles
Decolonize scientific institutions, don’t just diversify them
‘Silence is complicity’ — universities must fight the anti-DEI crackdown
The financial shackling of historically Black universities in the United States
From exploitation to empowerment: how researchers can protect Indigenous peoples’ rights to own and control their data
Academia needs a more honest, scientific approach to DEI
Black women on the academic tightrope: four scholars weigh in
Subjects
Scientific community
Society
Careers
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited