Microsoft may begin chasing people up on their expiring 365 subscriptions with a full-screen ad
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Microsoft may begin chasing people up on their expiring 365 subscriptions with a full-screen ad
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 13, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Subscriptions (Copilot Pro, Microsoft 365) are Microsoft’s primary source of consumer revenue.
Windows 11 beta tests a full-screen SCOOBE reminder at boot to push lapsed Microsoft 365 renewals.
Dialog can't be dismissed; only a 'remind me later' button is offered.
While Windows is Microsoft's most famous software, it's likely not a huge money-maker for the company. I don't have its books on hand, but I can't imagine that people buying a new PC with a Windows 11 license once every three to five years is keeping it afloat. And that's not including the people who upgraded from Windows 10 to 11 for free. No, it's the subscriptions that are likely keeping Microsoft ticking over. Currently, the company has two major revenue streams on the consumer side: Copilot Pro and Microsoft 365. And while Microsoft is trying to encourage more people to subscribe to the former by adding Copilot to more and more products, it seems the company wants to test out maintaining the latter by chasing up people who allowed their subscription to lapse.
Microsoft is trying out full-screen ads to convince people to continue subscribing to 365
Image Credit: Microsoft
As spotted by Neowin, our story begins in the most recent Windows 11 Dev and Beta build. These patches are still in testing, so there's no guarantee that they'll ever reach the release window. However, it's still a good insight as to what Microsoft is toying around with at the very least, so they're always worth a look. The patches were pretty standard, but there was this one nugget:
We’re introducing a simple reminder that appears as a SCOOBE screen (Second Chance Out of Box Experience) to let you know your Microsoft subscription needs attention (for example, if a renewal payment didn’t go through). In just a few clicks, you can review and update your payment method and keep your subscription benefits uninterrupted.
Well, it seems that Microsoft and I have differing opinions on what constitutes a "simple reminder." It turns out that Microsoft's idea is a large, full-screen ad that pops up when you're booting up your PC. This will inform you that, hey, your Microsoft 365 subscription appears to be nearing its end soon. If you let it expire, Microsoft will notify you of all the stuff you're about to lose. And as you might imagine from a Microsoft product, you can't say "no" to this dialog; instead, you can tell it to "remind me later." Presumably with another big screen. Again, this feature is in testing, so it may not make it to release, but just be ready for it should it actually come out. If you're a bit tired of Microsoft pushing you to use 365, check out these free Microsoft Office alternatives that might be even better than the real deal. Just be prepared for a bit of culture shock, as there are several reasons why it's challenging to switch from Microsoft 365 to a free alternative.
Software and Services
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 11, 2025
6 services you should run on a cheap VPS
Sep 13, 2025
This browser extension completely changed how I use Obsidian
Sep 12, 2025
I finally found a backup solution worth paying for
Sep 12, 2025
The 4 things that get me to replay games I love on every platform I own
More from our brands
Microsoft Copilot Just Received an Enormous Update—but It's Too Little, Too Late
Microsoft 365's AI Features Aren’t Unlimited—Here’s How to Use Them Wisely
Copilot conundrum: Microsoft's accidentally kills its AI chatbot in new Windows Update
How (and why) I back up my Windows 11 PC
You Can Now Use AI With Microsoft 365 Office Apps—for a Price
Microsoft floats the idea of a free Office tier, complete with ads
You Can Now Use Microsoft Office for Free, but There's a Catch
Today's best deals
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
23 minutes ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
3 hours ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
4 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Windows 11 25H2 is in the final stages of release as Microsoft preps for the big day
I tried using a FreeBSD distro that's meant to be run off a flash drive
3 reasons why I use Nvidia's DLAA over DLSS for most of my games
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.