Black Culture Connection | Articles, Features & More | PBS | PBS
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
Black Culture Connection
Explore Black history and culture though films, stories, and voices across public media.
Welcome to PBS' Black Culture Connection. This is a place where we celebrate Black experiences, learn Black history, and uplift Black voices. Come for the documentaries, stay for the Block Parties.
Human Footprint Earth has never experienced anything like us: a single species dominating and transforming the planet. Biologist Shane Campbell-Staton travels the globe to explore our Human Footprint and to discover how the things we do reveal who we truly are.In this clip, learn more about the American chestnut trees:Billions of American chestnut trees once shaped life in Appalachia, but a foreign fungus erased them in a matter of decades. Today, only sickly sprouts remain — ghosts of a vanished ecosystem. Sara Fern Fitzsimmons and The American Chestnut Foundation are racing to breed resistance and restore the tree's ecological role. It’s slow, painstaking work — but it may hold the key to revival.
Add to Watchlist
Taking Note - Njioma Chinyere Grevious
Great Performances
A profile of violinist Njioma Chinyere Grevious, winner of a 2024 Avery Fisher Career Grant Award.
Watch now
Made in Ethiopia
POV
As Ethiopia's largest Chinese-run industrial park attempts an ambitious expansion, three women find themselves at the heart of a changing nation. A determined Chinese director pushes for 30,000 new jobs, while a local farmer and factory worker face the promise and painful realities of rapid industrialization. Their interwoven stories reveal the complex human dimensions of global development.
Watch now
Weathered: Earth's Extremes
Host, Maiya May travels around the world to highlight real stories from people affected by natural disasters and climate change. Stream our series to learn how building a better future is possible.
Watch now
Slumlord Millionaire
VOCES
Rents have gone up an average of 30% in the past five years in the United States – as of April 2024, the average rent in Manhattan was almost $5,000 a month. Some landlords are eager to get rid of long-term tenants and use various tactics including cutting off heat and gas, refusing to make repairs and ignoring vermin infestations.
Watch now
Science & Nature
Science & Nature
Watch documentaries and read articles from series like NOVA, NATURE, and FRONTLINE about our planet, its habitats and ecosystems along with an array of scientists and hosts.
Learn More
Featured Shows
American Black Journal
From Detroit Public Television
American Black Journal is an historic television program that has been presenting issues and events from African-American perspectives since 1968. Segments feature topics about the arts and culture and also cover community issues such as politics, race, and religion.
Black Issues Forum
From PBS NC
Each week, Black Issues Forum presents a diverse panel of guests who discuss such topics as politics, social concerns, health, education, justice, entertainment, technology and public policy.
Black Voices
From WTTW
BLACK VOICES presents trusted analysis and in-depth conversation about issues that matter to the Black community in Chicago hosted by CHICAGO TONIGHT co-anchor Brandis Friedman.
Roots Race & Culture
From PBS Utah
Roots, Race & Culture invites audiences into bold and honest conversations about race, identity, and culture, from the perspectives and shared experiences of Utah’s Black and POC communities. Hosts and Producers Lonzo Liggins and Danor Gerald cut through the fluff, tackling tough topics with humor, insight, and empathy.
A PBS SPECIAL EVENT
Welcome to the Block Party!
PBS is celebrating Black History Month by throwing a Block Party! Throughout the month of February, stream new and beloved programs celebrating Black excellence. Whether it’s history, music, documentaries, science or genealogy, PBS is your destination. Join the party at pbs.org/blockparty
Join the Party
Support your local PBS station in our mission to inspire, enrich, and educate.
Donate Now
Featured Articles
Who Are The Tuskegee Airmen?
by Madisson Haynes | January 28, 2022
The Meaning and History of Juneteenth Foods
by PBS | June 16, 2023
Stories of Black Chefs, Food Innovators, and Culinary Historians
by PBS | January 22, 2024
Documentaries About Pioneering Black Artists
by PBS | February 14, 2024
Trailblazing Women in Music History You Should Know
by Beatrice Alvarez | March 17, 2023
5 Artists that Showcase the Transformative Power of Art
by Ashlee Sierra | April 19, 2024
60th anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom
On August 28, 1963 approximately 250,000 people arrived in Washington, D.C. to support the enactment of civil rights legislation. Explore a selection of documentaries about this landmark event in the Civil Rights Movement.
Read More
All Stories
Thurgood Marshall: Facts and Documentaries About the Trailblazing Civil Rights Lawyer and Jurist
by PBS | August 29, 2025
Explore the Wonderful World of Jazz with PBS
by Julia Pryor | July 25, 2024
The Dazzling, Daring History of Disco
by Ashlee Sierra | June 25, 2024
Documentaries About Pioneering Black Artists
by PBS | February 14, 2024
Stories of Black Chefs, Food Innovators, and Culinary Historians
by PBS | January 22, 2024
History and Facts About Reparations in the U.S.
by PBS | November 27, 2023
Learn About the 1963 March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom
by PBS | July 12, 2023
The Meaning and History of Juneteenth Foods
by PBS | June 16, 2023
Must-Watch Civil War Documentaries
by Beatrice Alvarez | May 25, 2023
Celebrating Hip Hop Through the Years
by PBS | February 21, 2023
Q&A: Chuck D, Lorrie Boula and Yemi Bamiro on 'Fight the Power' and the 50th Anniversary of Hip Hop
by PBS | February 16, 2023
Sound Field Season 4 Breaks Down Hip Hop
by PBS | February 01, 2023
Welcome to the Block Party!
by PBS | January 12, 2023
Learn About and Celebrate Juneteenth
by PBS | June 15, 2022
Meet Tuskegee Airman Lt. Colonel George Hardy
by Madisson Haynes | March 01, 2022
Meet Tuskegee Airman Lt. Colonel Howard Baugh
by Madisson Haynes | February 17, 2022
What to Watch | Black History Month
by PBS | February 01, 2022
Who Are The Tuskegee Airmen?
by Madisson Haynes | January 28, 2022
Racism in America
by PBS | January 24, 2022
Martin Luther King Jr. Day: When & Why We Celebrate
by Beatrice Alvarez | January 16, 2021
Must-Watch Baseball Documentaries To Celebrate America's Pastime
by PBS | April 15, 2020
Civil Rights Icons
by PBS | October 10, 2013
Quiz: How Well Do You Know Jackie Robinson?
by PBS | October 10, 2013
Quiz: Civil Rights Movement Leaders
by PBS | October 10, 2013
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
About PBS
Donate
PBS Foundation
TV Schedule
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sponsorship
Contact Us
© 2025 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.