General Interest & Popular Science Books | Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
General Interest
Here you will find books on exciting topics of general interest that are easily understandable to a broad audience without subject expertise. From beautifully illustrated books for amateur astronomers and inspiring books for armchair philosophers to general management books, from books exploring current politics to those shedding light on public health emergencies and social movements, whether you are looking for popular psychology books or titles to explain our sustainable development challenges, Springer offers popular science and general interest books for everybody! Get them to expand your own knowledge or that of a friend.
Subdisciplines
Astronomy
At the universities, astronomy became a field of study right around 1800. Since then, not only scientists but also a broad public have been following the latest findings on the cosmos, its planets, and stars with great interest. Astronomy and its sub-disciplines at Springer include astrophysics, astrobiology, extraterrestrial physics, cosmology and space science. Our publications include reference works, textbooks, monographs, proceedings, popular science, and open access content. Well-known titles in the field of astronomy are Living Reviews in Relativity, The Astronomy and Astrophysics Review, and the Encyclopedia of Astrobiology. Society partners include Max Planck Society, The International Society on General Relativity and Gravitation. Watch the video featuring voices of our authors and top-read journals and books from our Astronomy portfolio.
Business, Politics and Society
Discover our collection of popular science and general interest books in business, politics and society.
Life Sciences
Discover our collection of popular science and general interest books in Life Sciences.  Learn more about Evolutionary Biology, Genetics, Marine Ecology, Plant Sciences and  Zoology.
Math, Computer Science, Nature & Technology
Discover our collection of popular science and general interest books.
Medicine and Health
Discover our collection of popular science and general interest books in medicine and health.
Physics
Discover our collection of popular science and general interest books in physics.
Psychology
Discover our collection of popular science and general interest books in psychology.
Find our products
Visit our shop on Springer Nature Link with more than 300,000 books.
Read over ten million scientific documents on Springer Nature Link.
Join our mailing list
Get access to exclusive content, sales, promotions and events.
Be the first to hear about new book releases and journal launches.
Learn about our newest services, tools and resources.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature