KAYAK for Business: Effortless Corporate Travel
Skip to main content
Sign in
Find out more
Sign in
Find out more
Corporate Travel Powered by KAYAK.
KAYAK for Business brings KAYAK’s intuitive, consumer grade user experience to the corporate world, enabling companies to seamlessly book, manage, and track corporate travel in one place.
Today, we’re proud to power modern travel programs for startups, global brands, and everything in between.
Find out more
30,000+ companies have streamlined their travel program with KAYAK for Business
The end-to-end solution for booking and managing corporate travel.
Consumer grade interface
Delight your travelers with a consumer-grade platform that makes booking work trips as easy as personal travel, with seamless self-service options.
Dedicated travel support
Get 24/7 offline support with industry-leading SLAs and global agents equipped with the technology to service bookings of any type.
Unmatched travel content
Leverage KAYAK’s expertise in integrating content from thousands of sources across all travel verticals, offering unbiased inventory for every trip.
Smarter Travel Starts Here.
Easy peasy trip management
Book a trip in as few as 3 minutes. Cancel and change as needed all from one place.
Super simple travel policies
Customize your travel program in clicks, not hours. From policy rules to approvals, you’re always in control.
Best-in-class reporting
From high-level spend to on the ground details, turn travel data into smart decisions and ROI.
Flexible payment methods
Pay for trips with individual or shared corporate cards, including direct billing for car rentals.
Request demo
Smarter Content Sourcing, Built for Business Travel.
Leveraging KAYAK’s metasearch expertise, KAYAK for Business delivers multi source content to provide robust, competitive options. We deliver content that enables self-service changes and cancellations, while ensuring each content option can be seamlessly managed across booking, servicing, and reporting.
In partnership with:
Learn about our vision.
KAYAK for Business is about giving travelers the widest choice and the best possible booking experience within the context of a robust travel program.
Learn about our Enterprise Solution here.
Connect with us on LinkedIn
Get the latest news, product features, and updates on how we’re building the future of corporate travel.
Connect
We value your privacy
California consumers have the right to opt out of the sale* of their personal information. For more information on how we securely process personal information, please see our Privacy Policy.
Do not sell my info
ON
* The definition of "sale" under the California Consumer Privacy Act is applicable only to California consumers.