KAYAK Navigator | Where better travel begins. - KAYAK
Skip to main content
KAYAK Navigator
Your next
trip takes
off here.
The truth is: the world really is your oyster. But with so many options, it might feel hard to find your footing. That’s where we come in. From destination-setting to deal-hunting to itinerary-wrangling, here’s what you need to handle every part of trip-planning like a pro.
Discover
where to go.
Need advice? Just ask.
Get answers to (almost) all your travel questions.
When you’re lost on where to visit, Ask KAYAK for destination recommendations. It’s simpler than hitting up that one friend who’s in a different city every weekend. (We promise.)
Ask away
More ways to find your place.
Roll out the (virtual) map.
See where in the world you can fly to based on your budget. Use KAYAK Explore.
Dive right in.
Go down a destination rabbit hole. Get tips for visiting almost any city in our Travel Guides.
Get straight to the point.
Use KAYAK Direct to search nonstop flights departing from your home airport.
Read your trip into reality.
10 all-inclusive vacations with no passport needed.
How to find cheap flights to anywhere
with KAYAK Explore.
Where to go in Europe with kids: A family’s 18
favorite places to explore.
The 12 best places to visit in August.
10 cheap beach vacations for all budgets.
The 13 best places to visit in September.
9 incredible places to travel to without a passport.
Where to see the Northern Lights around the world.
The best wheelchair accessible beaches in the US and abroad.
Discover the wilderness with these
12 national parks in Canada.
Browse articles
Plan
for your budget.
It’s all about timing.
Give us the where. And we’ll tell you when.
Our Best Time to Travel tool lets you know the best time
to travel. (Duh.) Simply enter your origin, destination and trip duration to see when to go – and book – for a better price.
Lock those dates
More ways to fine-tune your trip.
Dabble with different days.
When you’re not precious about timing but hell-bent on scoring a deal, use flexible dates.
Get a month’s-eye view.
Cut the guesswork out of flight search and see how expensive it is to fly week by week.
Work your Wishlist.
Now not the time? Save a trip for later and figure out the details when it feels right.
Tips to keep those ducks in a row.
What are multi-city flights
and how to book them on KAYAK?
What is Mobile Passport Control:
5 reasons why you should use it.
How to search KAYAK for the best flights.
How to choose hotels along your route:
A 101 guide.
How to get a US passport fast: Here’s how
to expedite the process.
How to turn 11 days of PTO into 31.
5 tips that make your hotel search easy.
Browse articles
Pick
the right price.
Get a flight deal gut-check.
Upload any itinerary. See how much you can save.
So you found a flight on another site. (Ouch.) We’d hate to see you overpay. Before you book, use KAYAK PriceCheck to scout for better deals. And kiss FOMO goodbye.
More of an email person? Send your screenshot to pricecheck@kayak.com and we’ll hit you back with cheaper options.
Let’s do it
Pick
the right price.
Get a flight deal gut-check.
Upload any itinerary. See how much you can save.
So you found a flight on another site. (Ouch.) We’d hate to see you overpay. Before you book, use KAYAK PriceCheck to scout for better deals. And kiss FOMO goodbye.
More of an email person? Send your screenshot to pricecheck@kayak.com and we’ll hit you back with cheaper options.
Let’s do it
More ways to cut costs.
Hack the (fare) system.
Pair one-way tickets from different airlines with KAYAK Hacker Fares. And get more bang for your buck.
Wait for the drop.
Let us do the tracking for you. Get Price Alerts for flights, hotels and cars sent to your inbox.
Make money moves.
Premium economy vs economy:
What are the main differences?
Everything you need to know about
different flight classes.
A complete guide to connecting flights.
Your ultimate guide for finding flights.
All you need to know about hotel
star ratings.
The real difference between a motel
vs hotel.
What is a double room in a hotel and what
other room types are there?
How to find the best roll-in shower hotel.
All you need to know about boutique hotels.
The ultimate car rental guide.
Browse articles
Travel
with confidence.
Nail those details.
No more sifting through email after email.
KAYAK Trips automatically pulls your itinerary from your inbox. So you can stay on top of your flight, hotel and rental car reservations…or even that nudist beach tour you booked. (Our lips are sealed.)
Count me in
More ways to travel easy.
New gate? No problem.
Monitor every change to your trip with our Flight Tracker.
Be utterly unreachable.
Write a spicy away message with our OOO Generator and ward off pesky work emails.
Leisure (or business) reading.
How to get an early check-in at a hotel.
Your guide to an easy hotel check-out
(and how to get a late check-out).
Carry-on vs checked bag: What’s the
best way to travel?
Boarding pass: Everything you need to know.
How to decide if you should leave the
airport on a layover.
What are airport lounges – and how
to access them.
A guide on how to use an eSIM for
international travel.
What to know when you are flying with
a wheelchair.
Must-know tips on how to get a wheelchair
at the airport.
Expert tips to help you get through airport
security faster.
Browse articles
We value your privacy
California consumers have the right to opt out of the sale* of their personal information. For more information on how we securely process personal information, please see our Privacy Policy.
Do not sell my info
ON
* The definition of "sale" under the California Consumer Privacy Act is applicable only to California consumers.