Finally, a cheap multitool that doesn't sacrifice function for form | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Finally, a cheap multitool that doesn't sacrifice function for form
Full-size multitools have their place, but the NexTool S11 Pro is a lightweight, reliable option that won't weigh you down.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 9:24 a.m. PT
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I admit it: I'm addicted to multitools. My daily carry for the past year or so has been the Gerber Dual Force, which has the most powerful pliers and best screwdriver on a multitool I've used. But the Dual Force is big and heavy, and not suited for lightweight applications like hiking.Also: 10 tiny tools I carry with me everywhere - how they workI have some hikes on the horizon where I'll want a flexible multitool that can handle things like bottle opening, tightening up the odd screw, and cutting and fixing things. In my search for such a compact, lightweight multitool with a decent selection of tools, I came across the NexTool S11 Pro.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS NexTool S11 Pro The S11 Pro is small yet mighty.
details
View at Amazon Get more in-depth ZDNET tech coverage: Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.Putting aside the name, which makes it sound like a smartphone, the S11 Pro is marketed as a 12-in-1 EDC (everyday carry) multitool aimed at the hiker and camper.
Tiny but very effective bottle opener. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET It measures a compact 1.97 x 0.63 x 4.12-inches and it weighs a miniscule 2.9 oz. This is a lot smaller and lighter than my Dual Force, which weighs a tiresome 12 ounces.
The NexTool S11 Pro is a lot smaller than the Gerber Dual Force.  Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETIt's also packed with features I rely on when out and about. The pliers are a good compromise of size and performance, the blade is sharp enough for most tasks and holds an edge well, and the screwdrivers and scissors are well designed and do their job well.It also has a few more specialist tools, like a SIM tray eject tool (which is useful for a lot more things than ejecting SIM trays), and even some neat glow in the dark inserts that make finding the multitool at the bottom of a rucksack or in the undergrowth you've dropped it into, a whole lot easier.
I do like a bit of glow in the dark! Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETThe tools are also tough, with NexTool having upgraded to 8Cr14Mov stainless steel for the knife blade, a metal that has decent hardness and wear resistance and corrosion resistance, while the scissors, screwdrivers, bottle opener and pliers use 5Cr15Mov, a more general use steel that balanced toughness and corrosion-resistance.These materials are ideal for a tool that's going to get exposed to rain, salt spray, and sweat, and is going to be asked to handle whatever tasks need handling, from tightening up a screw, to being used like a caveman's hammer.
Anything can be a hammer if you try hard enough. This is how you safely hold a multitool like a hammer.  Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETAlso: The TSA-approved multitool myth: I tested it on a plane so you don't have toDo remember when traveling that this multitool does have a blade on it, and that this can run foul of authorities in some places (think airports everywhere, and places like train stations in Europe). If you want something that's more travel-friendly, I recommend the NexTool Mini Sailor Lite.
The blade is handy, but it makes the NexTool S11 Pro airport unfriendly. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETWhy I recommend this productNexTool has been seriously impressing me lately. As someone who used to be a fanboy of expensive multitools, this company proves that a decent quality tool doesn't have to cost an arm and a leg. Sure, there are always compromises, and you don't get 25-year warranties like you get with a Leatherman, but with the NexTool S11 Pro you're buying a tool that costs $30, and for that you still get a very generous 10-year warranty. For me, this is the perfect tool if I'm trying to keep carry weight to a minimum. I get a set of tools that will handle the basics, without carrying a heavy lump of metal with me on the trail. Looking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
My search for the most durable USB-C cable is over - this one passes my brick test
My hardest-working power station just got an upgrade, and I highly recommend it
I bought this $15 cordless screwdriver just for fun - then it totally impressed me
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use