Photo: Zenobia Hotel in Palmyra, Syria, still stands : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Photo: Zenobia Hotel in Palmyra, Syria, still stands Far-Flung Postcards is a weekly series in which NPR's international correspondents share snapshots of moments from their lives and work around the world.
Special Series Far-Flung Postcards
Greetings from Palmyra, Syria, with its once-grand hotel named for a warrior queen
June 11, 20259:36 AM ET
By
Jane Arraf
Jackie Lay/NPR
Far-Flung Postcards is a weekly series in which NPR's international correspondents share snapshots of moments from their lives and work around the world. Battered and bullet-ridden but still standing! It doesn't look it now, but this was one of the most elegant hotels in the Middle East. The Zenobia was built in the 1920s. It was named after Queen Zenobia, the legendary ruler of ancient Palmyra who annexed part of the Roman Empire when the city was a key stop on the Silk Road. I took this photo in late January, when I went back to Palmyra for the first time in three decades for a look at how the iconic site and city had fared over the years of war when it was inaccessible to tourists.
Sponsor Message
I'd stayed at the Zenobia in the '90s and it was glorious — quirky and full of life and possibly even ghosts. A three-hour-drive from Damascus — longer in a dodgy taxi — the ancient Roman city rose up in the distance like a desert mirage. The hotel itself had certainly seen better days, but oh, the wonder of having even a bad Syrian glass of wine in a dining room literally steps away from the ruins. An equally short walk away were the caverns with underground springs for adventurous bathers. I didn't see ghosts but if there were, perhaps Agatha Christie, who stayed there with her archaeologist husband a century ago, might have made an appearance. Or djinns — the supernatural beings said to favor living in the desert. They would have plenty of solitude. Syria is recovering from 12 years of civil war and Palmyra itself changed hands twice during fighting between the Syrian regime, Russian forces and ISIS. You see the part of the sign with missing letters? It used to read "Cham Palace," the Syrian hotel chain that ran it. No news on the hotel's future, but people here are looking forward to welcoming tourists again. See more photos from around the world:
Sponsor Message
Greetings from Mexico City, where these dogs ride a bus to and from schoolGreetings from the Galápagos Islands, where the blue-footed booby shows its colorsGreetings from Afrin, Syria, where Kurds danced their hearts out to celebrate springGreetings from Dharamshala, India, where these Tibetan kids were having the best timeFar from the front lines, Ukrainians fight a war to preserve their cultureAs Greenland prepares for tourism increase, a moment of stillness
Syria
palmyra
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only