android - The file name is too complicated - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
The file name is too complicated [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
4 days ago
Modified
4 days ago
Viewed
56 times
Part of Mobile Development Collective
-2
Closed. This question needs to be more focused. It is not currently accepting answers.
Want to improve this question? Guide the asker to update the question so it focuses on a single, specific problem. Narrowing the question will help others answer the question concisely. You may edit the question if you feel you can improve it yourself. If edited, the question will be reviewed and might be reopened.
Closed 4 days ago.
Improve this question
I am self-taught in developing Android.
While listening to several lectures, I noticed that the file name, class, and interface usage are different. If there is a file naming convention, I want to use it in a unified manner. What should I do?
I'm going to use it according to the MVVM pattern and the architecture recommended by Google. I want to organize the file names according to the purpose of data, model, viewmodel, ui, repository, etc. Also, I want to understand what class, interface, sealed class, etc. are created inside these files. For example, API uses retrofit to name interfaces and services. I would appreciate it if you could organize it like this.
androidfilenamescompose
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 14 at 3:30
김영광김영광
1
New contributor
김영광 is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
3
1
file name, class, and interface usage are different Different from what?
Different from each other?
Well, yes of course they are different.
Filenames are different from class names.
I don't even understand what you are asking.
John Gordon
–
John Gordon
2025-09-14 03:58:14 +00:00
Commented
Sep 14 at 3:58
I don't know how to name the file according to the purpose. And I don't know when to use interface and sealed class.
김영광
–
김영광
2025-09-14 05:08:01 +00:00
Commented
Sep 14 at 5:08
The official Kotlin Coding Convention should answer the first question, and this Stack Overflow question answers the second one.
tyg
–
tyg
2025-09-14 07:42:24 +00:00
Commented
Sep 14 at 7:42
Add a comment
|
Related questions
6428
What is the difference between px, dip, dp, and sp?
4373
How can I close/hide the Android soft keyboard programmatically?
3567
Why is the Android emulator so slow? How can we speed up the Android emulator?
Related questions
6428
What is the difference between px, dip, dp, and sp?
4373
How can I close/hide the Android soft keyboard programmatically?
3567
Why is the Android emulator so slow? How can we speed up the Android emulator?
2876
How can I save an activity state using the save instance state?
1501
Is there a way to get the source code from an APK file?
1476
What is the difference between match_parent and fill_parent?
1131
Download a file with Android, and showing the progress in a ProgressDialog
1610
How can you get the build/version number of your Android application?
1470
What is the difference between gravity and layout_gravity in Android?
559
How do I remove the file suffix and path portion from a path string in Bash?
Load 7 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
androidfilenamescompose
See similar questions with these tags.
Mobile Development
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Linked
66
What is the difference between sealed class and sealed interface in Kotlin?
Hot Network Questions
Using Python Code as tool in QGIS
Why does make's `dir` function add additional directories?
Is it possible to follow the Buddha’s core teachings while rejecting supernatural beliefs like gods, ghosts, reincarnation, heaven and hell realms?
Continue the spiral
Is the yeast used in chicken breading yeast or yeast extract
New in my job, made a mistake with crediting a colleague – how should I handle this?
Memory mapped file interface for linux
What is the minimum number of games played between Arun and Disha?
To what extent do we define an irreproducible result?
Where can a French citizen with Russian visa legally cross by bike/foot/car from China into Russia at a border point as close as possible to Dongning?
Is there a substance that passes through gasses, but reacts violently (explosive) when confronted with solid matter?
In what circumstances is projecting an image of a politican in public an offence?
Scalars, Vectors, Tensors: are they all?
How does the "Emerge" ability work when dealing with double-faced cards?
How to justify a mass hierarchal administrative demotion without causing a coup/civil war
CSV TimeSheet Calculator
What are possible options to disembark for health issues if your airline keeps you on board at the tarmac for several hours?
Implementation of a kd-tree header-only library
Short story about spaceship landing on Earth with shapeshifting alien aboard. It escapes by killing and duplicating the last crewman aboard
Editor's responsibilities vis-à-vis referee reports
How does energy abundance affect materials science?
Runtime estimation in "How to factor 2048 bit RSA integers with less than a million noisy qubits"
Book about ancient volume found at French book auction that opens risky higher reality to readers
What would be the impact of a being that is so hot it melts metal from 1km away. How far away would be habitable? (On Earth btw)
more hot questions
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093