Nintendo Switch 2 vs. Switch 1: Every Feature Compared - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechGaming Nintendo
Nintendo Switch 2 vs. Switch 1: Every Feature Compared
The Nintendo Switch 2 has launched and is available now -- here are all the new console's big upgrades over the original.
David Lumb Senior Reporter David Lumb is a senior reporter covering mobile and gaming spaces. Over the last decade, he's reviewed phones for TechRadar as well as covered tech, gaming, and culture for Engadget, Popular Mechanics, NBC Asian America, Increment, Fast Company and others. As a true Californian, he lives for coffee, beaches and burritos. Expertise Smartphones | Gaming | Telecom industry | Mobile semiconductors | Mobile gaming
See full bio
David Lumb
June 5, 2025
9:30 a.m. PT 9 min read
Nintendo
At long last, the new Nintendo Switch 2 console is here, and it's in players' hands. While the Switch 2 doesn't look too different from the original, the official specs tell a different story, as plenty of improvements are buried in the details. For instance, the new system boasts "10x the graphics performance" compared to the original Switch, according to Nvidia, which built the custom processor powering the Switch 2. With the new console available to buy, it's worth digging deeper to see what's changed.The Switch 2 is priced at $450 alone or $500 in a bundle with Mario Kart World, the headliner of the Nintendo Switch 2 launch games. If you didn't pick up your preorder, you may be out of luck as stock ran out soon after its launch, but here's all the info on how you might be able to buy the Switch 2 in stores.
This story is part of
Nintendo Switch 2, a collection of all things related to Nintendo's next-gen game console.
Note that we're mostly comparing the Switch 2 to the original Switch 1 released in March 2017 and some comparisons to the OLED model, because looping in the Switch Lite gets complicated.Nintendo Switch 2 vs. Switch OLED vs. Switch 1
Switch 2Switch OLEDSwitch 1Price $450$350$300Release date June 5, 2025Oct. 8, 2021March 3, 2017CPU/GPU Custom NvidiaCustom TegraCustom TegraStorage 256GB64GB32GBBattery Size 5,220 mAh4,310 mAh4,310 mAhBattery Life 2-6.5 hours4.5-9 hours4.5-9 hoursVideo Output 4K (3,840 x 2,160)HD (1,920 x 1,080 pixels)HD (1,920 x 1,080 pixels)Max framerate 120 fps60 fps60 fpsHDR, VRR support HDR / VRR up to 120HzN/AN/ADimensions 166 x 272 x 13.9mm102 x 242 x 13.9mm102 x 239 x 13.9mmScreen size 7.9 inches7.0 inches6.2 inchesWeight 401 g320 g (0.93 lbs.)297 g (0.88 lbs.)USB and Ports 2x USB-C, 3.5mmUSB-C, 3.5mmUSB-C, 3.5mm
DesignBroadly, the Switch 2 is a larger version of its predecessor, with everything looking slightly inflated versus the original Nintendo Switch: bigger footprint, bigger screen, bigger Joy-Cons. Original Switch: The original Nintendo Switch, with Joy-Cons slotted into the side rails, is a little over 9.4 inches wide, 4 inches tall, a little over half an inch thick and weighs about 10.5 ounces (297 grams). The Joy-Cons slide into place from the top of the original Nintendo Switch sides, while a thin wedge of plastic pops out of the back of the console to serve as a kickstand.The original Nintendo Switch also came with a dock, which the console could slot into for recharging and outputting to a TV or large display via HDMI port. Switch OLED: The Nintendo Switch OLED is ever-so-slightly wider to accommodate the larger display, but the same height in order to be compatible with Joy-Cons.  Switch 2: The new Nintendo Switch 2 is bigger in every way, but it has the same overall shape and layout as the original. The new Joy-Cons will indeed be held in place on the Nintendo Switch 2 magnetically, and connect to the console via pins. The Nintendo Switch 2 also sports a wide U-shaped kickstand that spans almost its entire rear width, which can be moved around to prop up the Switch 2 at a variety of angles. Nintendo says the Switch 2 has more powerful speakers, which we're looking forward to testing.The Switch 2's dock is largely similar in function though it has rounded edges and an internal fan to cool down the console during long game sessions. More importantly, it can output games in 4K to TVs, but only for select games. Winner: Switch 2
From the January reveal trailer, a Joy-Con comparison between the Switch 1 (left) and Switch 2 (right). Screenshot by David Lumb/CNETJoy-ConsThe Joy-Cons were a marvel when they arrived on the first Nintendo Switch, and while they're functionally similar in its successor, the Nintendo Switch 2's controllers have been upgraded.Original Switch: The Nintendo Switch Joy-Cons are simple but powerful controllers that slide on and off the console via plastic rails, connecting and recharging via pins on the side. Detach, and they become their own micro-controllers, with little shoulder buttons to boot. The Joy-Cons are unchanged on the Nintendo Switch OLED.
A side view of the Switch 2 Joy-Con (top) compared to the Switch 1 Joy-Con (bottom). Switch 2: The Nintendo Switch 2 Joy-Cons are larger to fit the Switch 2, and lock into the side of the console via powerful magnets -- there are small inward-facing buttons to the side of ZR and ZL to detach the controllers from the console. The larger Joy-Cons have longer L and R outside shoulder buttons, as well as much wider SL and SR internal shoulder buttons, which are accessible when detached from the Nintendo Switch 2.
The Nintendo Switch 2 includes these colored caps to put on the end of Joy-Cons to make scrolling on a surface easier when using them in mouse mode. Nintendo/screenshot by CNETAnd yes, you can use the NIntendo Switch 2 Joy-Cons as mice by placing their inner edges flat on a surface. During the Nintendo Direct, we saw one being used to control active action games like the wheelchair basketball-simulating DragXDrive and strategy games like Civilization VII. They have a removable cap that can be slipped on the inside edge to make running the controller back and forth on surfaces in mouse mode smoother.Winner: Switch 2.
The Switch 2 looks just like the rumors said. NintendoDisplay sizeOriginal Switch: The original Nintendo Switch has a 6.2-inch LCD screen with 1,280x720-pixel resolution, which was reasonably impressive at launch in 2017 but has been outclassed by newer handhelds with sharper displays. The Switch Lite, the more portable and affordable version, has a 5.5-inch LCD screen.Switch OLED: The Switch OLED's display, besides having deeper darks and an overall better picture than the base game, is larger at 7 inches. To fit into the overall same frame as the original Switch, the bezels on the Switch OLED have been drastically minimized.Switch 2: Unsurprisingly, the Nintendo Switch 2's larger size means a larger display. The new console has a 7.9-inch 1080p LCD screen that can get up to 120Hz refresh rate in handheld mode, or up to 4K when docked and outputting to a TV. Why no OLED display? Possibly to save on costs... or perhaps to give Nintendo room to release a Switch 2 OLED version down the line.Winner: Switch OLED.
Watch this: More Details of the Nintendo Switch 2 Revealed: Supercut
15:41
CPU/GPUOriginal Switch: The original Nintendo Switch runs on an Nvidia custom Tegra X1 processor split into four ARM Cortex A57 CPU cores, and according to Hackaday, there are four extra A53 cores that aren't used. The Switch Lite and Switch OLED have the same hardware. Switch 2: Once again, Nintendo hasn't released any official info on the Nintendo Switch 2's specs, even after the Nintendo Direct reveal stream -- and the most the company reveals is that it has a "custom processor made by Nvidia" on the Switch 2's official specs page. Nvidia confirmed it also has a custom GPU, claiming that the new console has "10x the graphics performance" of the Switch 1, and the custom processor's AI-powered features include Deep Learning Super Sampling (DLSS), face tracking and background removal for video chat and real-time ray tracing.We do still have more supposed details from previous leaks. Months ago on X (formerly Twitter), leaker Zuby_Tech posted that the Switch 2's CPU will be an eight-core Arm Cortex A78C. They also suggested that the GPU will be an Nvidia T239 Ampere, aligning with years of similar rumors reported on by Eurogamer and others about the custom chip, which derives from Nvidia's Tegra line of chips for smartphones and mobile devices.Winner: Likely Nintendo Switch 2, but we should wait and see.
NintendoRAM and storageOriginal Switch. The Switch has 4GB of LPDDR4 RAM and 32GB of onboard storage, expandable up to 2TB via microSD cards in the slot beneath the kickstand. Switch OLED: The only change is an upgrade to 64GB of onboard storage. Switch 2: Even after the reveal stream, Nintendo didn't release official RAM specs. Leaker Zuby_Tech posted on X back in September suggesting the Nintendo Switch 2 will have 12GB of LPDDR5 RAM and 256GB of onboard storage. That leak also suggested the new console will have two internal fans, up from the single one in the original Nintendo Switch. Nintendo did confirm that the new console will have 256GB of onboard storage, which can be expanded with special microSD Express cards -- sorry, your old Switch-compatible microSD cards won't work on the Nintendo Switch 2.Winner: Switch 2.Battery life Original Switch: The original Nintendo Switch packs a 4,310-mAh battery, which gives between 4.5 and 9 hours of battery life depending on screen brightness and other factors. The Switch OLED has the same size battery and battery life as the original. Switch 2: Though Nintendo didn't release details on the Nintendo Switch 2's capacity in the reveal stream, the company does list specs on its website, showing it packs a 5,220mAh battery. While that's notably larger than the one in its predecessor, Nintendo estimates this will only get players between an estimated 2 and 6.5 hours, depending on games played. Winner: Sounds like the original Nintendo Switch and OLED Nintendo Switch have better battery life.
A screenshot from Nintendo's Switch 2 introduction video showing the console's topside and the new second USB-C port next to the 3.5mm headphone jack and, presumably, the cartridge slot to the right. NintendoPorts Original Switch: The first Nintendo Switch sports a single USB-C port out the bottom, a 3.5mm headphone jack on the top and Wi-Fi 5 plus Bluetooth 4.1 connectivity. On the top is a slot at the top for Switch game cartridges as well as the microSD slot beneath the kickstand on the rear of the console. The Nintendo Switch OLED has the same ports. Switch 2: The Nintendo Switch 2 retains the original's USB-C port on the bottom and 3.5mm jack on the top while adding another USB-C port on the topside. Now we know what it's for: To connect with accessories like the Nintendo Switch Camera, a webcam-like camera on a stand that lets you do Nintendo's version of FaceTiming while you play games with your friends. Only the top port can connect to cameras.The Switch 2 has Wi-Fi 6 and Bluetooth connectivity (the Joy-Con controllers connect via Bluetooth 3.0, but it's unclear if the console is compatible with more advanced Bluetooth formats) as well as a 3.5mm headphone jack. The dock has an ethernet port, giving the Switch 2 wired internet connectivity when docked.As for cartridges, the Nintendo Switch 2 will play some original Switch games in physical versions. The cartridge slot is to the right of the headphone jack in the above image, which is where the slot is on the original Switch. You can tell game cartridges from the two console generations apart by color: ones for the new Switch 2 are red, while older Switch 1 games are black.Winner: Switch 2.
Watch this: We Played Nintendo Switch 2: Mario, Donkey Kong, Mouse, Camera and a Lot More
08:02
PriceThe NIntendo Switch 2 costs $450 compared to $300 for the original Nintendo Switch and $400 for the OLED Nintendo Switch. It's unclear right now how US President Donald Trump's global tariffs will affect the price, and right now, the Switch 2 price is holding steady at $450. But if tariffs enter the picture, they surely won't make the console cheaper.The VerdictCNET's Scott Stein spent a day playing the Nintendo Switch 2.If you're a gamer, there's nothing like the Nintendo Switch 2 out there, he reports."I'd say the Switch 2 is a better piece of hardware (than the existing Switch) no doubt, but the upgrade proposition feels pretty uncertain until Nintendo shows many more games that make it worth it," Stein said.Stein notes that, at $450 (£395, AU$699), plus $70 or $80 for such games as Mario Kart World and Donkey Kong Bananza, the Nintendo Switch 2 "is an expensive proposition for any family right now."But if money's not a huge issue, go ahead and upgrade."Then again, as a handheld game console with its own included dock that can also play games in 4K on a TV, it's actually competitively priced versus the Steam Deck and Windows gaming handhelds," Stein says.Switch 2 FAQWhen is the Nintendo Switch 2 coming out?June 5. If you haven't preordered, you may be out of luck, but there's some hope.The console is still sold out just about everywhere online, but several retailers -- including Best Buy, Target, GameStop, Walmart and even Staples -- have confirmed that they'll be offering in-store availability on release day, with most kicking off at midnight. It will certainly be competitive, but this could be your best bet if you're looking to grab one of these cutting-edge handhelds for yourself anytime soon. Additionally, Target has announced that it will have another round of online availability on June 6.We're tracking Nintendo Switch 2 availability in this story.Why are Nintendo Switch 2 games $80?Getting the Nintendo Switch 2 is only part of the problem. Games for the Switch 2 sure aren't cheap. The must-have Mario Kart World is $80, $10 more than what most new games cost today.While the Trump administrations tariffs are making headlines, they aren't to blame here. CNET's Oscar Gonzalez writes that one likely reason is game storage. Industry analysis from Niko Partners notes that "one reason for the higher price is the increased cost of the new and faster Game Cards themselves, with higher capacities being more expensive to manufacture than a PS5 Blu-ray disc."But while Mario Kart World is priced at $80, another Nintendo Switch 2 game, Donkey Kong Bananza, which comes out in July, is listed on Nintendo's site for $70. Not exactly cheap, but cheaper than Mario Kart World.Here's a look at the Nintendo Switch 2 games we're most excited to play.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.