Worried about your iPhone 17 scratching? Apple says don't be | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
Worried about your iPhone 17 scratching? Apple says don't be
People are calling out scratches on the back of new iPhone 17 models, even ones still in the store. A teardown from iFixit explains why the problem occurs, while Apple has finally responded with an explanation.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 12:16 p.m. PT
Bloomberg/Contributor/Bloomberg via GettyFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysCustomers say they notice scratches on new iPhone 17 Pro units.iFixit and Apple have both offered their own takes on the problem.iPhone 17 buyers should use a case to protect their phones.Another new iPhone rollout, another controversy. This time, the iPhone 17 is in the crosshairs as buyers and potential customers are complaining that the phones scratch too easily, even ones still on display in Apple stores. Now, Apple is weighing in.The reports started surfacing this past weekend after the new iPhone lineup officially appeared in stores last Friday. So far, people have noticed scuffs on the deep blue variants of the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max and scratches on the iPhone 17 Air Space Black edition, Bloomberg reported on Friday.Also: I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this timeThe flaws have been discovered on new phones in Apple stores across New York, Hong Kong, Shanghai, and London. Apple's MagSafe charger is also apparently leaving a visible circular mark on the backs of iPhone 17 Pro models, Bloomberg added. In response, the controversy has earned the name "scratchgate" in the tradition of appending the word gate to any type of scandal or wrongdoing.Unhappy customers have been chiming in on social media. In China, where the iPhone 17 first popped up for sale last Friday, people took to the Weibo social network to post photos of the scratched phones. The related hashtag was one of the top trending topics on the network, grabbing more than 40 million views, according to Bloomberg. Users also posted on Facebook and X with images of scuffs and scratches.Videos showing scratched phones have appeared on YouTube, as well. In one video, popular YouTuber JerryRigEverything intentionally scratched the back of an iPhone 17 Pro to show how some areas are more susceptible than others.Also: I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more senseBut confusion has reigned over where and why the scuffs and scratches are appearing. A writer and editor at CultofMedia said he found scratch marks on several demo units at an Apple store. These
weren't surface-level scratches that could be easily removed, even after
trying to wipe them off with a microfiber cloth.After visiting my local Apple store, I also noticed scratch marks on the backs of a few demo iPhone 17 Pro models. Investigating further, I found circular marks on several phones where the MagSafe charging stand attaches. Rubbing the backs with a cloth, I was able to eliminate the circular marks. But I couldn't remove the scratches, even after vigorous cleaning.However, in JerryRigEverything's analysis, the YouTuber was easily able to wipe off the scratches that he had created on the back.Findings from the teardownTo dig deeper, the folks at iFixit have published the results of a teardown of the iPhone 17 Pro. Using their usual tricks and tools, the team sought to get to the bottom of the scratchgate controversy.As iFixit pointed out, Apple switched the material used for the frame and back of this year's iPhones. For the iPhone 15 Pro and 16 Pro lineup, the company turned to titanium, a
material that's more durable than other types of metals but can run hot. Likely to deal with the overheating, Apple outfitted the iPhone 17 Pro models with an aluminum frame, which doesn't
run as hot but is softer than titanium.Further, the heat-forged aluminum is anodized. As iFixit explained, anodizing is an electrolytic process that adds a protective layer of oxide onto a metal surface. The surface is actually corroded in a way to protect the metal underneath. This process is also a handy way to add color to the metal, such as with the iPhone 17's new Cosmic Orange tone.Also: I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgradeDoes this mean the scuffing and scratching are due to the switch from titanium to aluminum? Not so fast, said iFixit. Based on input from David Niebuhr, a metallurgical engineering expert, titanium oxide is a little harder than aluminum oxide, but the difference wouldn't account for the scratches found on the phones.Instead, the problem lies in the shape of the phone. Specifically, the flaking and scratching are most noticeable on the sharp edges of the camera bump. This year, Apple expanded the camera plateau to stretch across almost the entire top width of the phone. But with such a sharp edge, the anodizing doesn't stick as evenly to the camera bump as it does across the rest of the phone. The weakness of the camera plateau's sharp edges also leads to flaking, shearing off, and even getting sliced.In its own testing, iFixit found that the camera plateau on the iPhone Air, which uses Ceramic Shield 2, was much more scratch resistant than the aluminum used on the Pro models. As for the rest of the back on the iPhone 17 Pro, the anodization gets a better grip, so shallow scratches don't cut through to bare metal.Apple's responseAnd what is Apple's response to all of this? The company finally served up its own explanation for why these scratches are occuring, at least on iPhones in the stores. Based on information shared with 9to5Mac and CNET, Apple is pinning the blame on old and worn out MagSafe charging stands that transfer material to the phone. The company added that these marks can be removed after wiping them with a cloth, which is what I discovered with the demo units at the Apple Store.OK, but what about the actual scratches, especially the ones on the edges of the camera bump? Though these anodized aluminum edges are considered durable and do pass industry guidelines, Apple said that they could suffer small abrasions with normal wear and tear.I guess it's plausible that demo iPhone 17 Pro units in Apple stores have been handled or mishandled by enough people to cause these scratches and other flaws. But I don't think Apple's response fully explains the cause or nature of the problem. For now, though, we'll have to see what happens when more people bring home an iPhone 17 and use it for weeks or months at a stretch.How to protect your iPhone 17Could Apple have nipped this problem in the bud? Yes, according to Niebuhr. "Apple could have prevented this by making a more gradual curve and avoiding a relatively sharp corner," he said.Apple has faced other iPhone controversies in the past, including Antennagate with the iPhone 4s and Bendgate with the iPhone 6. Will this latest problem also prove a headache for the company?Whether or not Apple weighs in further on this issue, the best advice is to always secure your phone with a case and a screen protector. That will safeguard it against scratches, scuffs, cracks, and other flaws. I use a clear case for my iPhone, which shows off the color but protects the back and edges. I do have to remove the case sometimes, if only to clean it. But even then, I'm careful how and where I place the phone while the case is off.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
The best iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases you can buy
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use