Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
On paper, the Bowers & Wilkins Px8 S2 may look eerily similar to the midrange Px7 S3. But the price increase is greatly justified.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 7:18 a.m. PT
Bowers & Wilkins Px8 S2
ZDNET's key takeaways The Bowers & Wilkins Px8 S2 are available in Onyx Black and Warm Stone for $799. They excel in the design and sound categories, thanks to their high-quality internal and external build materialsUnless you value exceptional details in design and sound, a $799 asking price may be hard to justify. View now at Bowers & Wilkins Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Few headphones perfectly blend design, sound quality, and everyday utility. Sony's headphones sound great, Bose's headphones have great design qualities, and Apple's headphones perform remarkably well with other Apple devices. Conversely, brands like Focal, which offer headphones with exceptional sound quality and minimal digital features, have a $1,200 asking price and weaker noise-canceling capabilities. Still, to many people, the consumer-friendly sound of the most popular headphones isn't good enough -- they want an elevated sound without compromising the most valuable software features.Also: I replaced my AirPods Max with the AirPods Pro 3, and didn't mind the $300 price gapThe art of blending all of the previously mentioned qualities is Bowers & Wilkins' specialty, marrying high-quality audio with the everyday consumer's needs. The Px8 S2, the second generation of its flagship headphones, debut with an upgraded Qualcomm chipset, better noise cancellation, improved wireless audio streaming quality, and new internal audio components. On paper, the Px8 S2 look similar to the recently released Px7 S3, which I loved for the sound, comfort, utility, and design. If you've already decided that Sony, Bose, JBL, or the others aren't what you're looking for, should you pay $320 more for the Px8 S2 over the Px7 S3?
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Bowers & Wilkins Px8 S2 The Bowers & Wilkins Px8 S2 wonderfully blend the best parts of both high-fidelity headphones and everyday consumer headphones.
details
View at Bowers & Wilkins It's challenging to compare Bowers & Wilkins' headphones to options from Bose and Sony because Bowers & Wilkins excels in two critical categories: external design materials and internal audio component materials. You won't find faux leather or coated plastic finishes on the Px8 S2.Instead, the Px8 S2's headband and ear pads are covered in nappa leather, the aluminum yokes sport an exposed braided cable, and the earcups sport aluminum accents. The higher-quality materials not only give the Px8 S2 a more refined and elegant look compared to the Px7 S3, but they also enhance the Px8 S2's wearing experience.Also: Why I recommend these wireless headphones over pricier flagship modelsThe Px8 S2 aren't much lighter than their predecessor, but the yokes and ear cups are considerably slimmer, borrowing from the sleek design of the Px7 S3. The power slider is relocated to the left ear cup, and the play/pause and volume up/down buttons are redesigned to encourage enhanced tactile feedback and recognition. The Px8 S2's thicker ear pads offer more passive isolation, and the more sturdy headband and yokes provide a tighter clamping force. Both headphones have eight microphones: one inside each ear cup and three on the outside. Both headphones' noise cancellation can perform on trains, buses, airplanes, in the office, or at the grocery store, but the added passive protection from the Px8 S2 is noticeable.
Jada Jones/ZDNETThe other glaring difference between the midrange Px7 S3 and the flagship Px8 S2 is the materials of the diaphragm in the speaker drivers. The Px7 S3's 40mm drivers use biocellulose, and the Px8 S2's use carbon. Let's be straightforward: both headphones' drivers use objectively higher-quality materials, although the quality of sound they produce is beholden to your personal tastes.To my ears, the Px7 S3 reproduce a more "consumer-friendly" sound profile: a warm tuning with an extended, weighty bass response, full mids that accentuate vocals and instruments, and a slight peak in the higher frequencies that adds a shine to the treble. Considerably more transparent and detail-oriented than the average headphones, not quite as impressive as the Px8 S2.Also: I tried Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds' AI noise cancelling, and can't go back to regular ANCMany people who are very strict about their audio quality automatically write off wireless headphones because wireless connections naturally diminish audio quality. I'll admit it: I enjoy the "typical consumer sound." An exciting, theatrical, slightly bass-heavy sound is what gets me going. But my ears can't deny that the Px8 S2's output is exceptional.
Bowers & Wilkins Px7 S3 (left) and Px8 S2 (right) Jada Jones/ZDNETUsing a rigid material like carbon in the headphones' diaphragm encourages enhanced clarity and detail and reduced distortion across all frequencies. Songs that I thought were just decent sounded a heck of a lot better.Vocals were front and center, and the bass was articulate and punchy. More minor details got their moment in my ears, even in more dense songs like Charli xcx's "Rewind." The Px8 S2 have an edge over their midrange counterpart in imaging and soundstage, offering what sounded like more precise positioning in a wider soundstage.Also: Why I keep 4 pairs of headphones with me at all times (and the unique role each one plays)Audio transmission improvements over the first-generation Px8 include an integrated amplifier and digital-to-analog converter, Bluetooth 5.3, 24-bit/96kHz playback via wired USB-C connection, and AptX Lossless and Adaptive Bluetooth codecs.According to Bowers & Wilkins, the Px8 S2 are primed for Bluetooth LE Audio compatibility, with Auracast being the wireless standard's most notable feature. The company also said the Px8 S2 will receive spatial audio. Both features will be available "later this year" via an over-the-air software update.Best headphone deals of the week
Apple AirPods Max ANC Wireless Headphones (USB-C Charging, Blue):  $500 (save $50)
Soundcore Life Q20 Hybrid Active Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $40 (save $20)
Beats Studio Pro Wireless Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $250 (save $101)
Sony WH-1000XM4 Wireless Noise Cancelling Over-Ear Headphones:  $278 (save $70)
Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless ANC Over-Ear Headphones (Black):  $300 (save $80) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
ZDNET's buying adviceThe Bowers & Wilkins Px8 S2 are undeniably high-end, delivering high marks in the sound, design, comfort, and utility categories. Their premium build and audio component materials set them apart from other premium headphones on the market. Conversely, their everyday use features, like 30 hours of playback, excellent performance via wireless connection, and great noise-canceling performance, give them more utility than wired-only, high-end headphones.The Px7 S3 are certainly midrange compared to the Px8 S2, although their design and sound are a step above their similarly priced competitors from Sony and Bose. You should buy the Px7 S3 if you want exceptional sound and a sleek design for a more reasonable price. You should go with the Px8 S2 if you want higher quality materials across the board -- internally and externally. Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why the best wireless earbuds I've ever listened to aren't made by Sony or Bose
AirPods Pro 3 review: The ANC is so good I'm using these instead of AirPods Max on flights
Why I can't live without this magnetic USB-C accessory - and all the devices it can charge
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use