Perfice: A free, self-hosted productivity tool for personal goal tracking
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This free, self-hosted productivity stack can help you track every aspect of your life
By
Victor Awogbemila
Published 14 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
I have tried numerous productivity and planning tools over the years. They have great features and benefits, but I expect them to do better when it
comes to personalization. That's the first shortcoming I noticed in the popular choices. On a bigger scale, these commercial productivity tools have many other downsides. They collect data that might be used to exploit or make a profit from you. Many features are only available if you are willing to pay more, and the apps can sometimes be difficult to customize.
After trying a few alternatives, I found a free and easy-to-host option dubbed Perfice. After using it for a short while, it's become one of the best decisions I have made about tracking what contributes to better productivity in various aspects of my life.
Perfice, a free tool for better productivity
The goal tracker that works
Perfice is an easy-to-use tool that simplifies productivity without making you feel like someone is trying to make huge profits off your data. With other popular tools, you can often experience that feeling through over-complicated features (which require much help to understand), notifications to subscribe to paid plans, or too many details that don't serve you. My favorite part of Perfice.dev is the ability to set multiple goals at a time. Then, over time, you can compare the relationships between one goal and the other. Let’s say you create a goal of going to bed early and another of exercising before bed. You can track the relationship between these two inside the tool. For instance, does your mood become better when you wake up in the morning? Does your day become more productive as a result? Perfice makes you understand these connections.
How Perfice improved my workflow and focus
The right tool at the right time
As my priorities expanded, I found I needed to track multiple areas of my life more intentionally. While other tools were available, what they offered didn't match up with monitoring those areas of my life. That's why Perfice stands out for me. Its trackable feature allows me to split my goals into lifestyle, general, and mental categories. I input my plans for each and even created subcategories for three months. You know that feeling when you envision where you want to be, but you can't understand why you didn't get it. With this feature, I can review the trackables and identify the parts I filled in and the ones I didn't. All I need to do for the next couple of months is work on the part I didn't fill out in the previous month. It’s even better because, with the same app, I can write my report in the form of a journal. I loved the experience so much. This has greatly improved my productivity, and I now have a clearer sense of direction about what I can do and achieve.
Setting things up for tracking
How Perfice works
The homepage is where your productivity experience begins. There are Android and desktop versions, which is nice because most self-hosted tools often miss a mobile option. You can explore the tools on the homepage by clicking on any icon or button. Explore each of them to gain a sense of what it can do. After that, focus on the left-side bar. There are two setting buttons; scroll down to the one at the bottom left and click the last button in that section. It displays a new prompt that asks you to log in or sign up. Now you're on your journey toward productivity. You can start with any features, but Goal is a good place to start. Click on the icon that looks like a round target, the fourth icon on the left green bar. You will see suggested templates that you can use, and you can click the 'Create New' button on the right side. The other features are great, too. In fact, I took a note immediately and started using it to see how it felt to take notes. Now I can quickly reach for the tool and put down a line or two about things I want to work on or build later. The bigger advantage is the simplification of setting goals and taking notes. The user experience is significantly better than many popular productivity tools I have tried. But at first, the whole tool and pages might look too simplistic. I thought so at first, but after using the tracking for a while, it made more sense.
Perfice might not serve your team
If you need a tool that can be used across a team, Perfice might not serve you well. The tool is meant for personal goal tracking and productivity. It's your go-to tool when you wake up in the morning and want to track what you want to achieve for the day. If you aim to build better habits and take control of your daily routine, Perfice could be the right tool for you.
Perfice
See at Github
Expand
Collapse
Software and Services
Self-Hosting
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
This free writing app is still in beta but it's already replacing Google Docs for me
1 day ago
A Nintendo Switch emulator just popped up on the Google Play Store, and Nintendo likely won't be pleased
2 days ago
5 unique ways I use Microsoft Loop to get the best out of it
19 hours ago
I tried using Linux's AntiX OS on my super old laptop and it works like a charm
More from our brands
I Have ChatGPT Plus and Perplexity Pro Subscriptions: Here’s Why I Use Both
How I Use Procreate as a Digital Scrapbooking and Journaling Tool
How I Turned My Old Laptop Into the Ultimate Distraction-Free Writing Machine
I Ditched Habit Trackers for Something Way Simpler—and It Actually Works
How I Use Technology to Overcome Procrastination
I Tried Using Only Apple Apps for Productivity—And I'm Never Going Back!
Beat Procrastination With This iPhone Voice Journaling Hack
Today's best deals
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
1 hour ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
7 hours ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
19 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Microsoft 365 users are getting a handy productivity tool at no additional cost
This Raspberry Pi project turned it into the ultimate travel gadget
I'm using my home's Unbound DNS to block trackers no matter where I am, here's how
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.