My Parents Got Divorced After 35 Years; It Left Me Heartbroken - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Parenting
My parents got divorced after 35 years. Their split strengthened my marriage.
Essay by
Nicole Reed
The author's parents divorced after 35 years together.
Courtesy of the author
2025-09-18T20:52:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
My mom told me my dad wanted a divorce six days after Christmas.
I was 34 and the news crushed me.
They are happier now that they're not together, and their divorce strengthened my marriage.
Six days after Christmas, my mom Facetimed me, with an urgency in her voice I had only heard when she told me about my aunt's death.
"I need to tell you something," she said, "Your dad wants a divorce." We hung up, and I collapsed on the couch, binge-sobbing through a season of "Gilmore Girls."At 34 years old, I had only ever known my parents together. I wasn't shocked — they had wanted different things for years — but I was heartbroken.
Both of my parents are in their late 60s. Who ends their marriage in the final third of life? It turns out, more people than I thought. According to AARP, splits among couples 65-plus have steadily gone up since 1990, the only divorce demographic that has increased in recent years.I didn't understand why nowThe one question I had was: Why now?
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
My husband and I were newly married, and we had all just returned from a monthlong vacation to Argentina and Antarctica — a family honeymoon, my parents joked. I could only chalk it up to divorce being more acceptable today.
The author, her husband, and her parents all went to Argentina right before they announced their divorce. m
Courtesy of the author
We are also living in a world where women are finding their voices again. After all, that's what happened to my mom. Months before the divorce news, she stopped doing the things my dad expected of her. Her life no longer revolved around ensuring my dad was cared for. I'm proud of her — still am — even if choosing herself was one of the things that ended their marriage.After 35 years together, my parents had become different people — they had stopped evolving together. My mom had quit drinking two years prior, a maneuver that helped her rediscover herself, but rocked their relationship more than anyone could have predicted. My dad had a hard time losing his drinking buddy. In her sobriety, my mom became frosty, and she resented my dad for losing herself.My dad became the bad guySince my dad wanted the divorce, he became the bad guy, and I shut him out. I placed all the blame on him, but I now realize they were both at fault. Though it wasn't fair to him, I had to blame someone. My mom, the more emotionally intelligent parent, was better at comforting me, and that's what I needed while I mourned the life I once knew.
The author with her parents when she was a kid.
Courtesy of the author
There's nothing that compares to the grief of a parental split. Some say it's like a death, but I don't know about that. Everyone experiences death. Not everyone experiences a divorce. I wasn't the one going through the divorce, but I felt so alone. It didn't help that I had seemingly aged out of feeling bad about my parents' divorce. It's like I was expected to just shrug it off.They are happier nowA month ago, a friend who was going through a parental divorce told me she hoped her parents would get back together. I realized I never wanted my parents to reconcile. They are happier without each other. It's a change I'll spend the rest of my life trying to manage, but it's better than seeing either of them unhappy.The divorce was quick and as amiable as it could be. It took just under eight months for the papers to be signed. Even though I thought I was prepared, the day it was finalized was just as painful as the day I found out. But I often forget that while I'm dealing with my own grief, so are both of my parents.
Since the divorce, my dad has lost over 40 pounds, started doing Tai Chi, and is seeing someone; I have asked not to hear details about her yet. I thought I was ready to know this new, divorced version of my dad, but it's too soon. I wish I knew how long it will take before I'm ready to hear about the person who is making him happy.The divorce has only strengthened my marriage so far. My husband makes sure to empower me; if he notices I've been doing most of the cooking or cleaning, he takes over. We share responsibilities and encourage each other to have lives outside one another, which is something my parents fell short of. We agreed early on that our independence matters most, and encouraging each other helps us as a couple.It hasn't even been a year since I got that call, but I'm trying to cherish the 34 years I had with my parents together — not everyone gets that. There may not be any more family honeymoons, but there will be other trips.
Recommended video
Essay
Parenting
Sex and Relationships
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account