Investors Can Depend on Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Key Morningstar Metrics for Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF
Fund Name: Performance Highlights
Home
Funds
Investors Can Depend on Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF
Investors Can Depend on Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF
This ETF’s simple approach and low fee are hard to beat.
Bryan Armour, CFA
Sep 16, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Tesla Inc
(TSLA)
Alphabet Inc Class A
(GOOGL)
NVIDIA Corp
(NVDA)
Amazon.com Inc
(AMZN)
Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF
(VIG)
Key Morningstar Metrics for Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETFMorningstar Medalist Rating: GoldProcess Pillar: HighPeople Pillar: Above AverageParent Pillar: HighVanguard Dividend Appreciation VIG pulls in stable, profitable firms that have increased their dividend payments for over a decade. This simple, repeatable approach and low costs form a long-term edge over peers.This strategy tracks the S&P US Dividend Growers Index, which targets US stocks that have increased their dividend payments for at least 10 consecutive years. It eliminates the highest-yielding names from that cohort to ensure its holdings are financially stable and more likely to continue making dividend payments. The index weights its holdings by their free-float-adjusted market cap, which leverages the market’s collective wisdom and mitigates turnover and the associated trading costs. It also limits individual stocks to 4% of the portfolio at each annual rebalance to promote diversification.Targeting stocks with 10 years of dividend growth is a strict hurdle that provides a big advantage. It indirectly targets profitable companies that not only have the capacity to increase their dividend payments but also a willingness to do so. Combining yield and quality results in a balanced stable of more than 300 companies. However, if a company were to miss a single dividend payment, it would have to wait 10 years before it is welcomed back. For example, Apple and ExxonMobil didn’t join the portfolio until 2023, after a decade of increasing dividends. Still, this is a worthwhile trade-off that keeps the portfolio full of high-quality companies that should continue to increase their dividends. The strategy’s strict requirements tend to weed out recent highflyers. Magnificent Seven stocks Amazon.com AMZN, Tesla TSLA, Alphabet GOOGL, and Nvidia NVDA are among the biggest stocks missing from this portfolio. These omissions can cause diverging performance relative to large-blend peers in the short term, but this strategy should result in smoother and more consistent performance over the long run. Likewise, excluding the highest-yielding eligible stocks reduces the portfolio’s exposure to value traps without giving up the fund’s yield advantage over the broad market.A portfolio of high-quality, stable companies should be tough to beat on a risk-adjusted basis over the long haul. This strategy’s low expense ratios further carve out a durable edge.Fund Name: Performance HighlightsThe ETF’s risk-adjusted performance has been stellar. It kept pace with the return of its average peer despite 12% lower volatility. The index that this fund tracks even beat the Morningstar US Large-Mid Cap Index in risk-adjusted terms (using Sharpe ratio) from April 2006 through July 2025. Lower volatility is key to this fund’s success. It tends to outperform when markets drop, like when it beat the category index by 10 percentage points in 2022. The drawback is its potential for lackluster returns when markets trend higher. Indeed, the US ETF share class returned 19% in 2024 yet underperformed its category index by 7 percentage points. Crucially, the fund has proved its ability to capture more of the market’s upside than downside, giving it an edge over its bogy in the long term.Low costs provide another durable edge over competitors. Market-value-weighting and a simple, repeatable process reduce transaction costs, creating an advantage when coupled with one of the lowest fees in its category.
The author or authors own shares in one or more securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
9 Top-Performing Large-Value Funds Funds from Invesco, Natixis, and BNY Mellon are among the best performers.
Gabe Alpert Sep 18, 2025
The 2 ETFs That Track Congressional Stock Trades These vehicles shed light on how Democratic and Republican members of Congress invest their money.
Zachary Evens Sep 18, 2025
Why We Highly Rate American Funds American Mutual A solid income-oriented approach.
Stephen Welch Sep 18, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Bryan Armour, CFA Director, ETF & Passive Strategies, US
More from Author
Bryan Armour is director of ETF and passive strategies research for North America. Email Bryan at bryan.armour@morningstar.com.
Investors Can Depend on Vanguard Dividend Appreciation ETF
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 16, 2025
Robinhood’s First Fund Could Spell Disaster for Investors
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off
David Sekera, CFA Sep 15, 2025
2 Funds Star in Debut of Morningstar Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid Funds
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 3, 2025
3 Great ETFs to Buy Before the Fed Cuts Interest Rates
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 29, 2025
Why You Should Pay Attention to Active ETFs
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 27, 2025
Investors Are Seeking Safety in Gold ETFs. Is It Working?
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 8, 2025
Passive Funds Beat Active Amid This Year’s Market Volatility
Bryan Armour, CFA Aug 5, 2025
Digging for Gold With ETFs
Bryan Armour, CFA Jul 23, 2025
Morningstar′s Guide to ETF Investing
Emelia Fredlick Jul 21, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility