Information for journal article authors |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Information for journal article authors
↑ Authors & editors
The following pages will support you if you would like to publish an article with Springer. We are committed to providing you with the resources and advice you need to succeed in submitting your work and getting it published as smoothly and quickly as possible.
Are you looking for suitable journals to publish in?
If your manuscript is nearly ready for submission and you don’t know which journal would be best for your work, choose a journal from the list and click to its homepage to find a detailed description, the instructions for authors and contact names.
Open Choice allows you to publish open access in the majority of our subscription-based journals.
Springer Nature SharedIt
Springer Nature SharedIt is leading the way in content sharing with links to free-to-read, full-text articles from subscription-based journals that can be posted anywhere.
Sorry, your browser doesn’t support embedded videos.
Share subscription-based articles easily
SharedIt is now available for Springer journals. Learn more about how to share journal articles with anyone.
How to promote your publication?
Here you will find tips & tools to help you attract more readers to your book or article.
Citation Alert
Never miss getting cited! Your article makes an impact –  and we will tell you about it!
Visit The Source Blog
Stay up-to-date on posts for authors, editors, and reviewers.
e.Proofing
You can edit your article, book chapter or entire book proofs online. Speed up the proofing process and minimize typesetting errors.
Journal authors
Home
How to publish an article
Editorial policies
Journal author tutorials
Open access tutorial
Open access publishing
Peer review tutorial
The Transfer Desk
↗
Contact
Authors & editors
Journal authors
Journal editors
Book authors & editors
Conference proceedings
Open Access
Author & reviewer tutorials
What authors are saying about us
90% of Springer Nature journal authors rated their overall experience with the publication process as excellent or good. Here's what they told us about the key factors.
Your ORCID iD – As unique as you
This persistent ID distinguishes you from every other researcher. Automated linkages between you and your publications or reviews ensure that your work is recognized. Your achievements will never be confused with a colleague’s work.
Join our mailing list
Keeping you up-to-date with the latest offers and publication news in your discipline
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature