Black Ops 7 needs to be harsher against cheating
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Black Ops 7 needs to be harsher against cheating with Call of Duty multiplayer so I can enjoy playing it
By
Jakejames Lugo
Published 2 days ago
Jakejames Lugo is a writer that has been covering video games and other entertainment for many years. He has written and published reviews, guides, listicles, and other content that anyone interested in gaming would follow. A lot of his work can be found in places like IGN, Dot Esports, Red Bull Gaming, The Outerhaven, Playboy Gaming, and many other outlets.
Jakejames continues to be part of the big conversations surrounding video games and entertainment. You can always find him sharing his undying passion for games online.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Cheaters are the bane of every gamer's existence. Nobody likes to deal with them, and nobody likes to get matched up with them online. A fun online multiplayer game can be instantly ruined by even the smallest group of cheaters roaming around and impeding on everyone's fun. For series like Call of Duty and other online FPS titles, it's a massive problem that can affect the perception and stability of online games. And with Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 coming out fairly soon, it's a problem that developers need to have a sterner hand on. As someone who plays a lot of Call of Duty multiplayer matches online with the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X/S, I hate it when a cheater appears in my game. Just when I think I will have a good match and become dominant against other players, a cheater with crazy mods on their game can bring my momentum to a halt, especially if I know they're actively cheating. This is the kind of thing I don't want to see happen so often with Black Ops 7, especially on release day, when everyone will be online. Because of that, I honestly want to see developers for Black Ops 7 have a harsher stance on cheating for Call of Duty multiplayer, so that I and other people can enjoy playing it more.
The lingering issues with cheating
Been around for too long
The two significant issues that plague Call of Duty games online can also potentially ruin the experience of Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 for many people. One is the presence of many cheaters abusing mods with the PC version of the games, and the other is Activision's seemingly lax attitude towards it. Both go hand-in-hand with the other, and both can take the wind out of the excitement behind playing Call of Duty games online. It's absolutely demoralizing for players who boot up things like Call of Duty: Black Ops 6 multiplayer or Call of Duty: Warzone playlists and find themselves on the receiving end of someone who can instantly target them from across the map. It's not fun—it's aggravating and a big problem that is still around. But, as bad as cheaters being present online is part of the issue, it often feels like Activision doesn't do enough to quell all of it. With the last few entries in the series, especially with the Warzone game mode, things like the RICOCHET anti-cheat system are supposed to mitigate cheaters who abuse aspects of the games. This is done through the system, analyzing player data and behavior to determine if a player is cheating online. And in some cases, the system works to put a stop to online cheating. But far too often, this doesn't feel like it works enough to push back against the myriad of instances where cheating occurs. For players like me who see the topic come up all the time, or the many videos shared across social media, it feels like Activision needs to do more.
Credit: Source: Xbox
Despite multiple statements from Activision and Call of Duty developers saying they are doing everything they can to address such a complex problem, the reality is that cheating is still impacting their games in a big way. And people continue to bring it up, constantly. The perception of a lot of players is that RICOCHET isn't working enough, nor are promises from the company to be vigilant about the problems at hand. And before Black Ops 7 finally releases, it's time for them to take a more aggressive approach to dealing with cheaters.
More needs to be done
Bring the hammer down harder
One of the reasons why cheaters often linger for a long time in a game is because there's not enough severe consequences for doing so. Bans are one way to hand out consequences, and they often stop some people from taking things further. But getting banned from a game's online community or servers is only one thing, and it does little to stop someone making another account and restarting the process all over again. Bans should really impact a cheater in a greater way, especially those who actively use mods online across different games or platforms to cheat against others. Activision has been known to ban someone from multiple titles in some instances, but this should become a regular occurrence. While that may seem harsh, it's almost become necessary at this point for the series. There are so many instances of people cheating on full display, sharing clips of games on social media platforms, and almost nothing is being done to them despite reports from other players. It's as if they don't care they're being banned for doing something against the terms of service and rules. Even some who have been banned in the past for mods that enable them to cheat have sometimes walked away with a slap on the wrist, then gleefully continued onward after. But if those same players somehow found themselves locked out of multiple games more often, it might be enough to slow things down.
Credit: Source: Activision
The same should also go for resetting stats or negating progress for accounts that have actively been cheating. Would someone be less likely to cheat if their account lost all of their unlocks and perks gained through progression? It might be something worth looking into. But whatever the course taken, developers need to be harsher and really hammer down that cheating won't be tolerated. The alternative to this is a launch weekend for a brand-new game like Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 suffering from an influx of people complaining about cheaters, and the perception being far worse than before from the start.
Aggression towards cheat makers
Splash damage to supporters too
Credit: Source: Activision
Another aspect of this is the companies and people who create mods and tools for cheating, which makes the entire situation a lot worse. While no company wants to get into legal issues with anyone, especially when the focus should be on stabilizing a game, it's often necessary to deal with them. One of the reasons why cheating in online games is so easy for people is how readily available tools are from various companies and individuals who frequently engage with them. Stuff like this can also be made worse by content creators who showcase or spotlight this in a way that either glorifies or pacifies cheating online. None of this is good for players or the games themselves. As Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 comes out, Activision needs to come out of the gate swinging on things like this to prevent Black Ops 7 from falling prey to the same issues all over again. Finding the creators of cheating tools and shutting out those who actively support them are first steps to doing so. While Activision already makes it clear they will look into legal options if things are bad enough with cheating tools and software, this is something that should be done more generously, especially for those that are easy to come across.
Credit: Source: Activision
This should also go for content creators who make content that involves cheating software or tools, especially those who have been known or found to use it themselves. Seeing videos shared on social media from well-known channels that are actively glorifying cheaters in action isn't help draw people to play your game online. Ignoring it or waiting until things have gotten so bad that it can't be overlooked has not helped for the last few releases, so a more aggressive approach is necessary to improve things.
Wanting to enjoy playing online
Like many other people, I want to enjoy the games that I play online. I do not want to see a game fail or the online servers become a mess, especially when I want to engage with it as much as anyone else. But I also don't want to play any game, be it Call of Duty or something else, that is known to have a big problem with rampant cheaters. It's not fun and never will be. And if Activision wants people like me to really enjoy playing Call of Duty: Black Ops 7 online for a long time, they desperately need to get a better handle on dealing with cheaters for their games. Everyone is honestly sick and tired of them ruining the fun.
Call of Duty: Black Ops 7
Like
Action
FPS
Sci-Fi
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Released
November 14, 2025
ESRB
Mature 17+ / Blood and Gore, Intense Violence, Strong Language, Suggestive Themes, Use of Drugs
Developer(s)
Treyarch, Raven Software
Publisher(s)
Activision
5 Images
black-ops-7-battle-royale-map.jpgblack-ops-7-drone.jpgblack-ops-7-android.jpgblack-ops-7-david-mason.jpgcall-of-duty-black-ops-7-david-mason.jpgClose
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Engine
IW Engine
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
Sep 14, 2025
I played these 3 wrestling games growing up and they were total jobbers to everyone
6 days ago
3 reasons to pick Cronos: The New Dawn over Hell is Us this month, and 3 things the latter does better
6 days ago
I tried Firecracker microVMs for self-hosted services, and it's surprisingly powerful
More from our brands
How to Fix Loading Message of the Day Bug in Black Ops 6 & Warzone
Best Crossplay Games On Xbox Game Pass (April 2025)
40 Best Cross-Platform Games To Play Right Now, Ranked
All Cheats In Mount And Blade 2: Bannerlord (& How To Unlock Them)
Call of Duty: Warzone's Biggest Problem Has Nothing to Do With Maps or Metas
Battlefield 6 fans are getting killed by cheating hackers with impossible powers
Marvel Rivals conspiracy theories are hitting a breaking point
Today's best deals
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
10 hours ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
13 hours ago
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
6 free file managers on Linux that are better than anything on Windows
M.2 slot roulette still exists on many modern motherboards, so make sure you use the right one
3 reasons PCIe risers are a bad idea for your shiny new gaming PC
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.