Climate: Books and Journals | Springer |
Springer — International Publisher
skip to context
Springer Nature Link shop
Subjects
Services
About Us
Climate
Research into our climate system is a young science: only in the 20th century has it become possible to explain the complex processes of the Earth's atmosphere. Since then, climate research has become a global science, with many connections to other disciplines. The specialist literature on climate published by Springer reflects this interdisciplinary spectrum. Experts, scientists and students will find first-class books and journals addressing both scientific and socio-political issues. Well-known publications include the journals Climatic Change and Climate Dynamics and the Handbook of Climate Change Adaptation.
Subdisciplines
Atmosphere
The interactions of the atmosphere with the other subsystems of the climate system are important for the climate. Our books and journals illuminate the complex relationships of the atmosphere, meteorology, and climatology. Against the background of global climate change, current research contributions address the associated economic, social and societal challenges. Our publications include the journal Advances in Atmospheric Sciences and the book series Springer Atmospheric Sciences.
Climate Change & Global Warming
Climatology is an interdisciplinary science of meteorology, geography, geology, oceanography, and physics. Climatology has undergone significant change in recent years. Due to the noticeable climate change, climatology today is much more than the study of climate elements and factors: it has become a decisive factor for the future of our planet. Our range of books combines the current state of scientific research with social science and political issues and presents applied examples from global change research. Among our best-known publications on Climatology are the journal Theoretical and Applied Climatology and the Encyclopedia of World Climatology.
Climate Change Policy & Management
Climate change does not stop at national borders. Because of its causes and consequences, it is a global challenge that requires international solutions and the cooperation of all states. Our range of publications on climate policy and climate management deals with the shaping of international climate policy and presents measures for effective climate protection. Well-known titles include the journal Mitigation and Adaptation Strategies for Global Change and the book series Climate Change Management.
Climatology
Climatology is an interdisciplinary science of meteorology, geography, geology, oceanography, and physics. Climatology has undergone significant change in recent years. Due to the noticeable climate change, climatology today is much more than the study of climate elements and factors: it has become a decisive factor for the future of our planet. Our range of books combines the current state of scientific research with social science and political issues and presents applied examples from global change research. Among our best-known publications on Climatology are the journal Theoretical and Applied Climatology and the Encyclopedia of World Climatology.
Meteorology
Meteorology investigates the physical and chemical processes in the atmosphere. The best-known applications are weather forecasting and climatology. Weather forecasting requires mainly numerical methods and mathematical expertise, which our textbooks convey in an understandable way and by means of numerous examples. Our titles include the International Journal of Biometeorology, the journal Boundary-Layer Meteorology and the series SpringerBriefs in Meteorology. Other topics in our interdisciplinary meteorology range cover theory, metrology, experimental methods and modelling.
Find our products
Visit our shop on Springer Nature Link with more than 300,000 books.
Read over ten million scientific documents on Springer Nature Link.
Join our mailing list
Get access to exclusive content, sales, promotions and events.
Be the first to hear about new book releases and journal launches.
Learn about our newest services, tools and resources.
Publish with us
Selecting the right publisher is one of the most important decisions an author will make. At Springer, we recognize that our authors are the heart of what we do and we are committed to provide the resources, support and advice you need to help you succeed.
Services
Advertisers
Authors & Editors
Booksellers (SpringerNature)
Book Reviewers
Instructors
Journalists
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Open Access & Springer
Editorial Policies
Rights & Permissions
Societies & Publishing Partners
Subscription Agencies (SpringerNature)
Help & Contact
Publish with us
Authors
Journal authors
Editorial Policies
Open access & Springer
Discover content
SpringerLink
Books A - Z
Journals A - Z
Video
Other services
Instructors & lecturers (SpringerNature)
Librarians (SpringerNature)
Societies & Publishing Partners
Advertisers
Springer Nature Link shop
About Springer
About us
Help & Support
Contact us
Press releases
Impressum
Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies
Accessibility statement
Privacy policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms and conditions
Help and support
© 2023
Springer Nature