The Best White Noise Machines to Help You Sleep in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Sleep Tech
The Best White Noise Machines to Help You Sleep in 2025
Enjoy a quiet, peaceful sleep with the best white noise machines CNET chose based on our testing experience.
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach. Expertise Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition and Supplements Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach
See full bio
Amanda Capritto
See full bio
Taylor Leamey
,
Amanda Capritto
May 9, 2025
12:00 p.m. PT 14 min read
Homedics Sound Spa Best overall white noise machine
$25 $24 at Amazon
Hatch Restore 3 Best 2-in-1 white noise machine and alarm clock
$170 at Amazon
LectroFan Evo Sound Machine Best simple white noise machine
$60 at Amazon
Manta White Noise Machine Best portable white noise machine
$99 at Manta
Sound Plus Sleep SE Best white noise machine with additional sound options
$130 at Amazon
Hatch Baby Rest Best white noise machine for babies and kids
$60 at Amazon
Honeywell Dreamweaver Sleep Fan Best pink noise machine
See at Amazon
Snooz White Noise Machine Easiest to use white noise machine
$100 at Amazon
Yogasleep Dohm Nova Best white noise machine with real fan sounds
$65 at Amazon
Show more (4 items)
Table of Contents
The Best White Noise Machines to Help You Sleep in 2025
What's the best overall white noise machine?
Best overall white noise machine
Best 2-in-1 white noise machine and alarm clock
Best simple white noise machine
Best portable white noise machine
Best white noise machine with additional sound options
Best white noise machine for babies and kids
Best pink noise machine
Easiest to use white noise machine
Best white noise machine with real fan sounds
How we tested the best white noise machines
Other white noise machines we've tested
Other options for improving your sleep with sound
A good night's rest isn't always easy to come by, especially if you're a light sleeper who wakes up with even the faintest of sounds. Sound machines offer a solution for those who struggle to fall asleep or don't like wearing headphones for sleeping. They mask environmental disturbances and background sounds and replace them with soothing noises and color sounds. I’ve tested dozens of sleep products and mattresses through the years and developed a decent skepticism about what’s worth your money. So when I tested the best sleep sound machines, I brought that skepticism through the process. These are the options that performed well enough to be considered worth your money.What's the best overall white noise machine?
HomedicsWe tested the best white noise machines on the market and narrowed our top pick to the Homedics Sound Spa. We chose this as the best overall white noise machine because of its unique features and affordability. The best white noise machine for you is the one that meets your specific needs.What We Updated: May 2025Added Hatch Restore 3, Manta, Yogasleep and Snooz white noise machines to the list. Removed Hatch Restore 2.
Editors' choice
Angela Lang/CNET
Homedics Sound Spa
Best overall white noise machine
$25 at Amazon
The Homedics Sound Spa strikes the perfect balance of quality and budget, which is why I think it’s the best white noise machine you can get. It’s hard to beat under $25 for a sound machine with nature sounds, especially one you can travel with.Why we like this sound machine: The Homedics Sound Spa white noise machine has a super simple design with a button for each of the six sounds: white noise, brook, thunder, summer night, ocean and rain. I prefer a button for each sound, rather than clicking the same button to flip through the sounds. This white noise machine has a timer for 15, 30 or 60 minutes. You can also plug the Sound Spa into a wall outlet or use batteries to take it on your travels. This sound machine is incredibly portable, one of the best on the list. This white noise sound machine is lightweight and thin so you can slip it into a carry-on or personal item with no problem.Who should get this sound machine: The Homedics Sound Spa is inexpensive, easy to use and portable. It produces high-quality sound for the price (although the rain setting has an obvious loop), and it has enough sound settings for the average person.Who shouldn’t: When the Sound Spa is turned on, there's a little green light on top of the machine. If you’re sensitive to light when falling asleep and while sleeping, this green light could feel bright and unnecessary. If you want pitch-black darkness, the Homedics Sound Spa is probably not the right choice, or you can try covering up the light.Pros: 6 sounds meant to mimic nature sounds Portable and compactTimer settings Cons:Green light may disrupt some sleepersLess sounds than other options, though what it has is good
$25 at Amazon
Hatch Restore 3
Best 2-in-1 white noise machine and alarm clock
$170 at Amazon
The Hatch Restore 3 is a sunrise alarm clock and sound machine duo, a massive benefit for my personal use. I like a clean nightstand, and having my alarm clock and sound machine in one device makes my life much easier because it’s all in one app. Why we like this sound machine: The Hatch Restore 3 can play white noise, though the catalog extends far beyond that. I prefer the rain sounds, but there are so many choices. From zodiac signs to denim to shag carpet, there is something for everyone. You can set how long you want it to play and even schedule it to automatically start at specific times. Beyond that, the Restore 3 also has guided sessions, podcasts and light-guided meditations. Who should get this sound machine: I’d recommend the Hatch Restore 3 to anyone wanting a sunrise alarm clock and sound machine. It’s easily one of the best options on the market. There aren’t a ton of buttons, and the app is super easy to use.Who shouldn’t: Given Hatch's additional functionality with the alarm clock, it costs more than other sound machines on the list. At $170, I think it’s well worth it because of its capability as an alarm clock and sound machine, though it’s still a bigger investment than other options. Hatch also has a $4.99/month subscription charge that’s required to unlock the whole library. Basic sounds like white noise and rain are available for free.Pros:Huge catalog of sounds and lightsCan adjust the volume and light displays easilyYou can set up schedules for your lights and sounds1-year product warranty30-night trial Cons:Subscription model for full catalog, though basic sounds are free$169.99 price makes it the most expensive on the list
$170 at Amazon
Angela Lang/CNET
LectroFan Evo Sound Machine
Best simple white noise machine
$60 at Amazon
I appreciate the simplicity of the LectroFan. This is the perfect white noise machine for people who don't need many sound options but need to bring their machine when traveling. It’s really small and plugs into the wall.Why we like this sound machine: The LectroFan Evo white noise machine is a no-fuss sound machine that offers white noise in its purest form. It doesn't have sounds of birds chirping, ocean waves, water falling or other nature sounds, but if you’re buying a white noise machine for white noise, then you’re getting exactly what you want. The LectroFan has 20 total sounds: 10 white noise sounds and 10 fan sounds. It only has three buttons on the front: power, volume control and sound selection. The adjustable volume control is pretty sensitive, and I've never had a problem finding just the right volume to mask outside sounds on any given night. Who should get this sound machine: Those who want a straight-to-the-point white noise machine with limited bells and whistles will like the LectroFan Evo. The buttons are simple, and you can choose between various white noise and fan sounds by pressing the corresponding buttons. This white noise machine also gets really loud compared to other options.Who shouldn’t: The Lectrofan Evo sound machine is small and easy to use, though it lacks the nature sounds of other options. So, if you’re looking for a wide range of ocean or rain sounds, this isn’t the sound machine for you.Pros: Plugs into wall or USB ports22 soundsLouder than other machinesSmall sizeHeadphone jack Cons:Only two nature soundsNo battery option
$60 at Amazon
Editors' choice
Manta White Noise Machine
Best portable white noise machine
$99 at Manta
“Manta's White Noise Machine has been a constant in my bedtime routine for the past six months. It's made a noticeable difference in my ability to sleep through the night as a light sleeper -- especially when sharing the room with our pets, who aren't necessarily quiet all night,” says Aly Lopez, sleep writer.Why we like this sound machine: There are 15 sound options, from ocean waves to rain to white noise, though Lopez found that she liked the calming brown noise setting best. She noted that all sounds are continuous with no gaps, so you don’t have to worry about interruptions in your relaxation routine.“One of my favorite features of this device is its remote, which allows you to control and adjust the noise machine from the comfort of your bed,” Lopez adds. “You can also set it on a timer or keep it on all night until you shut it off in the morning, which is what I do. I even bring it while traveling and staying in hotels or Airbnbs because it's highly portable and easy to use.”Who should get this sound machine: At only $99, this white noise machine falls in the middle of the price range on this list. It’s not the most expensive on the list, however, it costs more than I expected for only 15 sounds. There are some features that the Manta White Noise Machine offers that other brands don’t, like the dual-speaker system that you can upgrade to. This allows you to create a surround-sound-like experience.Who shouldn’t: The Manta sound machine is small and portable. It has 15 soothing sounds, fewer than some on this list. Those looking for a larger collection of unique sounds may want to go with another white noise machine.Pros:Continuous, non-looping soundSmall and portable15 soothing noise optionsNo apps requiredSpeaker plugs in, so you don't have to charge the batteryNo LED lightsCons:On the expensive side at $99Can't add or play your own soundsThe speaker requires an outlet for plugging in
$99 at Manta
Sound of Sleep/CNET
Sound Plus Sleep SE
Best white noise machine with additional sound options
$130 at Amazon
I've been using it for more than six months, and not only does the Sound Plus Sleep SE white noise machine put me to sleep (and keep me asleep), but it also helps me focus while working from home and drown out distracting sounds.Why we like this sound machine: The sheer range of sounds you get with this white noise machine blows most other options on the list out to the water. There are 64 white noise, ambient and fan sounds to choose from. I use the pink noise setting to fall asleep and the meditation or rainfall settings to focus while working. I also love the acute volume control and sleek design. It doesn't look out of place on my nightstand or my desk. This white noise machine has three timers: 30 minutes, 120 minutes or constant play.Who should get this sound machine: If you want a white noise machine with more than one white-noise sound you can adjust, the Sound Plus Sleep SE from Sound of Sleep is the one you need. It offers high-quality sounds that don’t loop. With 44 nature and ambient noise settings, people who want more than just white noise.Who shouldn’t: I wouldn’t recommend this to people on a budget because $130 is a lot for a white noise machine. We think it’s well worth the price if you want a ton of sound options, though if you don’t care about that, I’d go with a cheaper option.Pros:Large catalog of soundsHas an optional setting that will adjust the volume if your setting becomes noisierTwo USB charging ports 1-year limited warrantyCons:The $130 price tag takes out out of a budget rangeHas to be plugged in to work Larger size, which makes it less portable
$130 at Amazon
Angela Lang/CNET
Hatch Baby Rest
Best white noise machine for babies and kids
$60 at Amazon
$60 at Hatch
I’m a big fan of the Hatch Rest sound machine for kids. I bought one for my niece to help establish her sleep routine. She loves the purple rain sounds that get her ready for a nap.Why we like this sound machine: The Hatch Rest 2nd Gen is a sound machine with a nightlight. I appreciate that this noise machine can connect to the Hatch app to access the sound collection and set rise and sleep cues, though that’s not required. You can turn the sound and light on from the device itself, change the type of sound or color of the light and raise or lower the volume and brightness. Who should get this sound machine: I think this sound machine is well priced at $60. The light feature, sound clarity and ease of use make it a top option for kids. The Rest offers a level of customization that other sound machines can’t match. I recommend it to anyone who wants to use a device to help their kid develop a healthy sleep routine. Who shouldn’t: The only real negative I see with the Hatch Rest is that you need access to an outlet to plug it in, which could make travel naps difficult. The Rest Plus can hold a charge if you want to move it elsewhere during naptime. The Rest Go is a travel noise machine that has no lights. It costs $40, a little pricey for a travel noise machine.Pros:Sleek designEasy controls on the device or in the app30-night trial1-year product warrantySuperior customizationCons: I think it’s a good value, though it’s still on the expensive side at $70
$60 at Amazon
$60 at Hatch
Honeywell/CNET
Honeywell Dreamweaver Sleep Fan
Best pink noise machine
See at Amazon
Honeywell makes trustworthy, high-quality products, and the Dreamweaver Sleep Fan is no different. Why we like this sound machine: This small bedside fan doubles as a sound machine but doesn't actually use white noise. It uses pink noise, a softer ambient noise that increases time spent in deep sleep and improves memory. When I was living in a busy apartment complex, this fan-and-pink-noise combo helped drown out the sounds of cars and passers-by. This pink noise machine is also an oscillating fan, which is unique to this list. Who should get this sound machine: There's a little night light on top of the unit that has three levels; if you like to sleep in pitch-black darkness, tap it three times to turn it off completely. If you want a little light, the Dreamweaver can be your white noise machine, night light and fan all in one. Who shouldn’t: If you’re on a budget, the Honeywell Dreamweaver sound machine might not be for you, as it costs $82. It’s also limited to pink noise, so it’s not for people who want a big sound collection.Pros:Dimming light settingsPink noiseOscillating fanUSB charging portCons:The fan collects dust pretty easilyLimited sounds
See at Amazon
Snooz White Noise Machine
Easiest to use white noise machine
$100 at Amazon
I liked the Snooz white noise machine's sound best because I could adjust the tone. I also appreciate its look, with the fabric overlay around the outside. It looks a little bit like the Nohm Nova, though rounder. Why we like this sound machine: The Snooz white noise machine has an incredibly simple design. It has an internal fan, power button and volume controls. The Snooz white noise machine has a really sleek design because it doesn’t have a cluster of buttons on top. The internal fan is controlled by the volume buttons, which let you adjust between 10 volume levels. The buttons control the volume, though the Snooz's outer shell rotates to adjust the tone of the white noise. The manual says not to grip the control surface to twist it, though I found myself having to put a finger or two on top to stabilize the device enough to twist the shell. But I liked physically adjusting the sound rather than relying on buttons. Snooz remembers the last setting you had, so you don’t have to readjust it every time you turn it on. Who should get this sound machine: The loudest sound setting on the Snooz white noise machine is really loud, almost surprisingly so. That makes this sound machine perfect for people who live in busy areas or have a lot of noise to block out.Who shouldn’t: The Snooz sound machine has one white noise sound and you adjust its volume and tone. That’s great for the average person who wants traditional white noise. However, you’ll want to look elsewhere if you want nature sounds.Pros:Connects to the Snooz app, which allows you to establish a scheduleSleek designLarge volume rangeReal fan insideCons:Outer shell was a little hard to twist at firstFewer sound options than othersOn the expensive side at $100
$100 at Amazon
Yogasleep Dohm Nova
Best white noise machine with real fan sounds
$65 at Amazon
$65 at Walmart
$65 at Target
The Yogasleep Dohm Nova's fan-based white noise sounds more natural than the electronically produced white noise. The constant whirl of the fan inside is really soothing. Why we like this sound machine: The Dohm Nova white noise machine has a unique design compared to other options. There are five buttons on this sound machine: the power, volume controls, light and timer. In addition to the volume controls, the device's collar rotates to adjust the fan's fan's sound. I think the fabric overlay around the collar gives it a nice look. The volume buttons and the adjustable collar allow you to create your ideal fan white noise sound.When you push the buttons to adjust the pitch and volume, you adjust the physical fan inside. This sound machine also has an optional night-light around the edge. Unlike the Hatch Restore 3, you can’t change the color, but you can adjust the brightness. Additionally, you can set this sound machine on a timer for 45 minutes, 90 minutes or 8 hours. Who should get this sound machine: The Dohm Nova is a white noise machine for people who want fan sounds. There are 10 fan speeds with volume and tone control. When testing, I found that it melted into the background.Who shouldn’t: I like this sound machine because of its calming fan sounds, though I admit it’s chunkier than other options. Depending on the size of your nightstand, it might be a little big for some people.Pros:Non-repetitive fan soundTwist the collar to easily adjust the sound1-year limited factory warrantyNight-light featureCons:QR code on the back of the manual doesn’t workCan’t change the light color, though you can adjust the brightnessBigger than other sound machines
$65 at Amazon
$65 at Walmart
$65 at Target
Best white noise machines compared
ProductSound library Power sourceTimerPrice Homedics Sound Spa 6 soundsWall outlet15, 30 or 60 minutes$25Hatch Restore 3 Wide range available in the appWall outletCustomizable $170Manta White Noise Machine 15 soundsWall outlet30 minutes, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours$99LectroFan Evo Sound Machine 22 soundsWall outletAuto-shut off timer available $50Yogasleep Dohm Nova 10 adjustable fan speedsWall outlet45 minutes, 90 minutes or 8 hours$60Hatch Rest Wide range available in the appWall outletCustomizable $70Snooz White Noise Machine 10 volume settingsWall outletCustomizable $100Sound Plus Sleep SE 64 soundsWall outlet30, 60, 90 or 120 minutes$130Honeywell Dreamweaver 3 fan settingsWall outlet1, 2, 4 or 8 hours$82
How we tested the best white noise machines
Taylor Leamey/CNETCNET’s team of editors tested and researched the white noise machines on this list. We used them while sleeping and working to get a full view of the product and its performance.To determine our roundup of best white noise machines, we considered factors like functionality, special features, range of noises and price. These selections are based on personal preference, and you should consult your doctor before buying a white noise machine to ensure you get the best one for your needs.Other white noise machines we've testedThese two white noise machines aren't my top choices, but they still offer value and might be right for you.YogaSleep Dohm ClassicDohm proclaims itself the first company to manufacture white noise machines, and the Dohm Classic is the original sound machine for sleep. The Dohm Classic is super simple, much like the LectroFan: It only produces white noise, and the controls are on, off, high and low. Once you choose high or low, rotate the cap to adjust the sound to the perfect level for you.If you're really looking for simplicity, the Dohm Classic embodies it. To me, this white noise machine feels a little limited for the price, and the sound quality isn't as great as some of the others on this list. It comes from a reputable brand and has nearly 4,000 positive reviews on Amazon, so it's worth looking into if you want a trustworthy product in the middle of what seems to be the price range (about $15 to $90) for white noise machines.Yoga Sleep Dohm Classic
$50 at Walmart
Nightingale Smart Home Sleep SystemUnlike the sound machines you put on a table, the Nightingale includes two speaker-equipped smart plugs. You can plug them in multiple places or on opposite sides of the room for a surround-sound effect.Nightingale Smart Home Sleep System
$34 at Amazon
Other options for improving your sleep with soundWhite noise machines are one of the most popular tools to sleep better as a light sleeper who is disturbed by sound. However, sound machines aren't for everyone, whether because of the cost (some are pricey) or because you don’t have the room on your nightstand. You have other options.Noise-canceling headphones: For those who don’t mind sleeping with earbuds in, noise-canceling headphones are a great alternative. I’d recommend this route if you like sounds for sleep, but maybe our partner doesn’t.Sleep sound apps: You don’t need a separate device to cash in on the benefits of white noise for sleep. There are plenty of apps out there that you can use, or Spotify playlists to turn on that won’t take up more room on your nightstand or cost a thing. I recently tested the Sona music app to help me sleep better.
Best white noise machine FAQs
What is a white noise machine?
A white noise machine is a device that emits a constant frequency of sound to help make ambiant or environmental noise. Many people use them to help them fall asleep.
Are white noise machines good for you?
The use of white noise machines is generally considered to be safe. People with tinnitus can experience a worsening of symptoms with prolonged use of a white noise machine.
What is the best white noise machine?
Our top pick for best white noise machine is the Homedics Sound Spa. It's an affordable device with plenty of sounds to choose from.
Should I keep white noise on all night?
You can keep white noise on all night; however, it is not necessary. If you are playing white noise for a baby, you can turn it off when they are asleep.
What color noise is best for sleep?
The best noises for sleep include white, brown and pink. The best noise for sleep is different for each person; find the one that works best for you.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.