YouTube reveals new AI tools for Shorts creators - see what you can do now | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
Streaming & Services
Video Streaming Services
YouTube reveals new AI tools for Shorts creators - see what you can do now
Powered by DeepMind's Veo 3 and Lyria 2 models, the tools promise 'more play, less effort' for creators.
Written by
Artie Beaty, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 16, 2025 at 10:35 a.m. PT
picture alliance/Contributor/picture alliance via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysYouTube has new AI generation tools for Shorts creators.The tools let you create and edit with AI.Content generated with these tools will be marked as AI.More AI is coming to YouTube.In a blog post today, YouTube detailed several new AI-powered tools designed specifically for Shorts creators -- billing them as "a suite of features designed to make creativity on YouTube more playful and effortless than ever." Also: YouTube is using AI to verify your age now - and if it's wrong, that's on you to fixYouTube says it has partnered with Google DeepMind to bring a custom version of its Veo 3 video generation model to YouTube. Veo 3 Fast works seamlessly in YouTube Shorts, the company explained, generating videos with lower latency at 480p. This means you can easily create video clips (for the first time with sound) from any idea.Veo 3 Fast is rolling out now. You'll find it by tapping the sparkle icon that appears while creating a video.New Veo editing capabilitiesYouTube also says that it's rolling out new Veo-powered capabilities for Shorts. You'll have three new ways to get creative:Add motion to a photo: You can now bring photos to life by capturing and transferring movement from one subject to another -- like a dance or a sports move.Stylize your video: Add new styles, like pop art or origami, to give your footage a totally different look with a tap.Add objects: Add objects like characters, props, or effects with a simple text description. For instance, YouTube says, you can add a rubber duck to your morning coffee or a giant octopus coming to capsize a ship in the harbor.
YouTubeIn one video showcasing the feature, a user adds a karate movement to a straightforward photo. The person in the photo springs to life, unleashing a flurry of realistic-looking moves. In another video, a user enters a text prompt of "a photorealistic octopus on a New York City sidewalk plays drums on buckets as pedestrians walk by." After showcasing the newly musical mollusc, you also see a seal baking a pizza, a skunk spraying graffiti, a peacock pecking at an ATM, a hedgehog typing a poem, and other adorable animal residents.Also: Adobe Premiere's new iPhone app lets you edit videos on the go - and it's totally freeTo utilize these tools, tap the sparkle icon in the top right corner as you're creating your Short. These capabilities will start to roll out over the next few months. A quicker start and a catchy tuneYouTube is also making it easier to get started. Edit with AI is a new feature that takes your raw camera roll footage and makes a "compelling first draft." YouTube explains that the feature intelligently finds and arranges your best moments, adds music and transitions, and even creates a voiceover that can react to what's happening in the video. Edit with AI
will be available in the coming weeks.Also: How to turn your Google Photos into videos in seconds - it's free and so much funLastly, Speech to Song takes dialogue and remixes it into a catchy tune. (You can see it in action here.) Using Lyria 2, Google DeepMind's most advanced AI music model, this feature takes words from your eligible videos and turns them into songs you and others can use for a Short. You can even choose the vibe of your song, such as chill, danceable, or fun. YouTube noted that all of these features will utilize SynthID watermarks and content labels to indicate that it's AI-generated content.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Gemini just aced the world's most elite coding competition - what it means for AGI
After coding catastrophe, Replit says its new AI agent checks its own work - here's how to try it
Gemini arrives in Chrome - here's everything it can do now
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use