Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it down | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
iOS
Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it down
You can't disable Liquid Glass but you can reduce its effects. Here's how to do this on an iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 7:24 a.m. PT
Apple / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysYou can't turn off Liquid Glass but you can tone it down.You can do this on an iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch.Toning down the effect brings a more opaque look to the screens.With the latest iOS 26 updates, Apple's new Liquid Glass design brings a more translucent look to the screens of your iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch. Icons, widgets, toolbars, and other elements blend into the background as if you're looking at them through glass. I like the new aesthetic. But that doesn't mean everyone will.Maybe you're not crazy about the new design and would like to turn it off. Well, you can't disable it but you can tone it down by giving your screens a more opaque appearance. Here's how to accomplish this on an iPhone, iPad, Mac, and Apple Watch.
1. Reduce the Liquid Glass effect on an iPhone
On an iPhone with iOS 26, head to Settings, select Accessibility, and then tap the setting for Display & Text Size. Turn on the switch for Reduce Transparency. Return to your home screen and you'll see that the icons and folders now have a more opaque look to them.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
2. Reduce the Liquid Glass effect on an iPad
The process is the same on an iPad with iPadOS 26. Head to Settings and select Accessibility. Go to the Display & Text Size screen and enable the switch for Reduce Transparency. Again, check out any Home screen with icons and folders to see if you're happier with the less transluscent look.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
3. Reduce the Liquid Glass effect on a Mac
On a Mac with MacOS 26 Tahoe, head to System Settings and select Accessibility. In the Vision section, tap the setting for Display and then turn on the switch for Reduce Transparency. Open a window to see how the folders and icons now appear.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNET
3. Reduce the Liquid Glass effect on an Apple Watch
On an Apple Watch with WatchOS 26, the steps are similar. Open the Settings app on your watch, select Accessibility, and then turn on the switch for Reduce Transparency. To see how reducing transparency affects the appearance, swipe down the screen to view your latest notifications. You'll notice that the notification panels no longer look transparent.
Show more
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETThe Liquid Glass effect may grow on you after a while. So you might want to keep it turned on initially. But if you decide you really can't live with it, at least you know how to tone it down, if not turn it off.FAQ
Can you customize the look and color of Liquid Glass?Yes. You can change how Liquid Glass looks on your home screen -- simply by customizing your app icons and widgets. You can make them translucent ("clear"), tint them with color, switch between light and dark modes, change icon size, etc.
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETHow to do it:Go to the Home Screen.Touch and hold any empty space on the Home Screen until the app icons begin to jiggle.Tap Edit at the top of the screen, then select Customize.In the menu that pops up, you can choose between Default, Dark, Clear, and Tinted themes. From there, you can further set Light, Dark, or Auto modes (Auto adapts based on whether your phone is in light or dark mode). You'll also see an option to make things brighter (sun icon), and you can even make your app icons larger or smaller now (boxes icon). This feature is available in iOS and iPadOS. You can also customize Liquid Glass on Mac.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.
Show more
More how-tos
How to download YouTube videos for free, plus two other methods
Wi-Fi problems? Add a wired network to your home without Ethernet cable - here's how
Wiping a Windows laptop? Here's the safest free way to erase your personal data
How to connect a PS4 controller to a smartphone
How to download YouTube videos for free, plus two other methods
Wi-Fi problems? Add a wired network to your home without Ethernet cable - here's how
Wiping a Windows laptop? Here's the safest free way to erase your personal data
How to connect a PS4 controller to a smartphone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to install iPadOS 26 right now (and which iPad models support it)
7 useful iOS 26 AI features launching alongside iPhone 17 (and these older models)
Android UI finally beats iOS in the looks department - and I'm stunned
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use