Ditching Windows 10? Here's how I installed Windows 11, removed AI, and stripped out unnecessary features using Flyoobe | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Networking
I swapped out my laptop's Wi-Fi 6E card for Wi-Fi 7 in minutes and gained 50% more performance for just $54 — here's how you can, too
Windows
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Operating Systems
Here's how I installed Windows 11 using a nano-sized 2.4GB ISO
Operating Systems
Custom Windows 11 builder axes Microsoft's AI features, whack-a-moling Copilot, Outlook, and Teams
Linux
I took a look at AnduinOS, a Linux distro that feels like home for Windows users
Linux
I've tried many Linux distros designed to look and feel like Windows, and this is the best one yet
Windows
Nano11 compresses Windows 11 install footprint to as little as 2.8GB
Windows
Microsoft’s sketchy Win 10 vs Win 11 performance claims pit a 9-year-old PC against a modern machine to claim 2.3X gain
Linux
Before Windows 10 goes EOL, I'm testing three alternative Linux distros to save my 6-year-old laptop from the landfill
Windows
These are the top free Windows tools that I use on a daily basis to boost my productivity
Windows
Windows 11 25H2 ISOs released after delays
Handheld Gaming
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
Microsoft Office
Microsoft will force install the Copilot AI app for users with desktop versions of 365 apps like Word and Excel
Artificial Intelligence
ASRock's revamped AI Quickset WSL virtualization tool makes it easy to run Linux AI apps on Windows
Windows
Windows 12 release is pushed back at least another year as Microsoft announces Windows 11 version 25H2
Software
Operating Systems
Windows
Ditching Windows 10? Here's how I installed Windows 11, removed AI, and stripped out unnecessary features using Flyoobe
How-To
By
Les Pounder
published
19 September 2025
Install Windows 11 on anything
Comments (10)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)
Windows 10 is set to go end-of-life (EOL) on October 14, and while you can purchase an extended service license to keep your machine updated for a little longer, some will ultimately choose to upgrade to Windows 11. But what if your machine doesn’t meet Microsoft’s requirements? You can get around them quite easily with Rufus or the focus of this how-to, Flyoobe.Originally known as Flyby11, Flyoobe touts itself as “A better way to set up Windows,” and it has an expansive set of features that should make Windows 11 a much better experience on more modest hardware.Upgrade a Windows 10 machine to Windows 11Remove AI componentsSlim down Windows 11Enhance the Windows 11 experienceInstall commonly used applicationsIn this how-to, I’ll be updating a laptop that is over a decade old to run Windows 11. This process can be applied to any machine running Windows 10. For those already running Windows 11, skip the upgrade and go right to the tweaks.
You may like
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Here's how I installed Windows 11 using a nano-sized 2.4GB ISO
Custom Windows 11 builder axes Microsoft's AI features, whack-a-moling Copilot, Outlook, and Teams
No matter what, though, you will need to install Flyoobe.Download and Install Flyoobe1. Download the latest Flyoobe release from the official GitHub repository. At the time of writing this was 1.10.2. Extract the files to a folder on your desktop.3. Double click on the Flyoobe application.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)Upgrading from Windows 10 to Windows 11
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)On my test machine, an ancient Lenovo X220 with a paltry 2nd-Gen Intel Core i5, I have Windows 10, freshly installed and ready for this how-to. But I want to install Windows 11. I could use Rufus to make an installation USB drive, but I wanted to use Flyoobe, which will download the latest Windows 11 ISO and install it using a Windows Server variant of the setup tools to skip hardware checks for TPM 2.0, Secure Boot, and, of course, the 2nd-Gen i5, which is most certainly not supported.I’ll assume that you have an older machine running Windows 10, a machine that does not meet Microsoft’s Windows 11 requirements.1. Open Flyoobe.
You may like
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Here's how I installed Windows 11 using a nano-sized 2.4GB ISO
Custom Windows 11 builder axes Microsoft's AI features, whack-a-moling Copilot, Outlook, and Teams
2. Click on Get Windows 11.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)3. Click on Download ISO from Microsoft website, this will trigger a browser to open.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)4. Download the Windows 11 multi-edition ISO and set your preferred language. Click Confirm to move on.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)5. Click on the generated link to download the Windows 11 ISO.6. Drag the downloaded ISO from the file manager into Flyoobe, this will trigger the installer to start.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)7. Follow the instructions to run the install. When prompted to keep files, settings, apps or just personal files, make the choice most relevant to your requirements.8. When ready, click on Install to install Windows 11 over the Windows 10 installation. The installer will reboot automatically and run the Windows 11 post installation setup script.Tweaking Windows 11 with FlyoobeWe’ve got Windows 11 on an unsupported machine, so now lets spend a little time tweaking it for better performance. The first task is to remove the AI features. I don’t need them, nor do I want them. So let's use Flyoobe to remove them all.1. In the Flyoobe app, select the AI tab.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)2. Click on Check to search for all of the possible AI components.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)3. Select all of the components that you wish to turn off.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)4. Click on “Turn off selected”. This will trigger Windows Powershell to run a script to deactivate the AI elements.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)5. Reboot for the changes to take effect.Install Updates and Driver with FlyoobeMy old Lenovo X220 worked out of the box with Windows 11, but the trackpad scroll button did not work and I love scrolling with that! So I needed to install the correct drivers and updates.1. Right click on the Flyoobe app and select Run as Administrator. We need to do this so that we can install the drivers / updates. I tried without, and the process just hung.2. Select the Updates tab and click on “Check for Updates”.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)3. Select all of the relevant updates and click on “Install Updates”.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)4. Wait for the process to finish. You may see some errors, these can be ignored.5. Reboot for the changes to take effect.Improve the Windows 11 Experience with FlyoobeWindows 11 is a different experience from Windows 10. For one thing, the Start menu is now in the center, and my muscle memory reminds me of this every time I use it. I wanted to improve my Windows 11 experience, and so I turned to Flyoobe, which has a quick list of changes that I can make to speed up and improve the overall features of Windows 11.1. Open Flyoobe and go to the Experience tab.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)2. Using the dropdown menu, select “Use quick settings”
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)3. Click on “Toggle All” and click Apply to action.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)4. Wait for the process to finish. You may see some errors, these can be ignored.5. Reboot for the changes to take effect.Remove Unwanted Apps with FlyoobeWindows 11, like other Windows before it, comes with a plethora of applications. Some useful, some not so. I wanted a clean start and for that I turned to Flyoobe to remove all of the unwanted applications.1. Open Flyoobe and go to the Apps tab.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)2. Using the dropdown menu, select “Minimal Windows” Of course you can change this to meet your needs. The “Balanced” option provides all of the essential apps and that is why it is recommended.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)3. Click on “Remove Selected Apps” to start the uninstall process.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)4. Wait for the process to finish. You may see some errors, these can be ignored.5. Reboot for the changes to take effect.Install Apps with FlyoobeThe complete opposite now! Whenever I install any OS, there are always a number of applications that I want / need to install. Flyoobe has an Installer tab that I can use to install a few of these, making it a little easier to get started.1. Open Flyoobe and go to the Installer tab.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)2. Scroll down the list and select the apps that you want to install.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)3. Click on “Install Apps” to start the install process.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)4. Wait for the process to finish. You may see some errors, these can be ignored.5. Go to the start menu and your new apps are ready to use.Flyoobe ExtensionsThis section covers extensions, written for Flyoobe, and designed to further improve your experience. There are extensions forPost-setup cleanupRestoring deleted appsView telemetry settingsTweak the File Explorerand many more.I’m going to show you how to run Disk Cleanup via Flyoobe, but the process is the same for the other extensions.1. Open Flyoobe and go to the Extensions tab.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)2. Scroll down the list and select the Post-setup cleanup option.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)3. Click on “Run” to start the cleanup process.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)4.Wait for the process to finish. You may see some errors, these can be ignored.5. The disk cleanup dropdown has other options for cleaning up the system. Choose any that are relevant to your needs and setup. Just remember to take backups before clicking the button.
See all comments (10)
Les PounderSocial Links NavigationLes Pounder is an associate editor at Tom's Hardware. He is a creative technologist and for seven years has created projects to educate and inspire minds both young and old. He has worked with the Raspberry Pi Foundation to write and deliver their teacher training program "Picademy".
Read more
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Here's how I installed Windows 11 using a nano-sized 2.4GB ISO
Custom Windows 11 builder axes Microsoft's AI features, whack-a-moling Copilot, Outlook, and Teams
I took a look at AnduinOS, a Linux distro that feels like home for Windows users
I've tried many Linux distros designed to look and feel like Windows, and this is the best one yet
Nano11 compresses Windows 11 install footprint to as little as 2.8GB
Latest in Windows
Windows 11 is getting a built-in internet speed test feature that will take you to Bing
Windows 11 25H2 ISOs released after delays
Nano11 compresses Windows 11 install footprint to as little as 2.8GB
These are the top free Windows tools that I use on a daily basis to boost my productivity
Early Windows 11 25H2 benchmarks confirm the update provides no performance improvements over 24H2
Windows 11 August 2025 security update is causing unintended UAC prompts to appear for non-admin users
Latest in How-To
Hack to the Future — here's how you can write BASIC code on a modern-day PC
Ditching Windows 10? Here's how I installed Windows 11, removed AI, and stripped out unnecessary features
How to make graphical Python apps the EasyGUI way
Here's how I multi-task in the Linux terminal with Tmux
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
How to transfer and share files over a network without a USB flash drive — and with just one line of code
10 Comments
Comment from the forums
sheakev
I've used an earlier version on several of my machines. I was able to update all of them. Glad you wrote such a thourough article.
My hope is that when the next major upgrade to windows11 comes out shortly that my machines will upgrade.
Also, I contributed to the author via p@yp@l three times. This software has been a lifesaver.
Reply
computerdave911
Admin said:Flyoobe offers a convenient way to install Windows 11 on computers that don’t meet Microsoft’s requirements. But that’s not all. Flyoobe can also be used to tweak Windows 11, remove AI components, and get the best Windows 11 experience on even elderly hardware.
Ditching Windows 10? Here's how I installed Windows 11, removed AI, and stripped out unnecessary features using Flyoobe : Read morerumor is they will end security updates to 11 on unsupported hardware after 10 ends,, i enrolled my win 10 pc for free yesterday good till oct 2026 now, its free now, just need to create another user account and sign in to it with a microsoft account or change your user if want,, and i got the enroll link under check for updates after 2 hours ,
Reply
JamesJones44
I would personally want to review the source and build from source if I was to use a 3rd party application to install an operating system, but the process looks promising.
Reply
Alvar "Miles" Udell
Much of what I see can already easily be done in Windows, you're just basically pre-configuring instead of post-configuring, and I'm not seeing anything in the article that would make it "run better on modest hardware". Perhaps provide benchmarks to back that claim up, and a disclaimer if this is a sponsored article?
Reply
Rob1C
I think that this article should mention that with old hardware, especially 10 year old hardware (which probably had Win8 pre-installed), you're probably better off with Windows 10; especially since you can extend your security updates for a year, for free.
Windows 11 will be a burden on the old hardware and make your computer run slower, unless you are using it for gaming and need DirectStorage support (which can work under Windows 10, but is less compatible than running DS under Windows 11).
If you don't really even need Windows at all, there's:
https://www.tomshardware.com/software/linux/ive-tried-many-linux-distros-designed-to-look-and-feel-like-windows-but-linuxfx-is-the-best-ive-tested-yet
Run Linux that has the Windows 11 desktop experience, which is fine if you are just going to surf, write, and email - not much of a learning curve, if any. Running under Linux will be much faster, whether on old or new hardware. Also, there are Windows emulators that run under Linux, but don't expect all Win11 games to work.
Really, if your laptop is 10 years old, it's probably time to retire it, use it just for simple tasks (browsing and email), and buy a new computer for gaming or AI applications (relying on a modern GPU). There often comes a point where a small amount of money saved is replaced by a lot of time spent waiting and messing with things that are going out of date.
Reply
stonecarver
As a Windows 11 user from week one of release back in 2021 and on even a 2009 Dell XPS 9100 1366 system you would think oh no way would that old of a PC even handle Windows 11 I mean when was the last time someone bought a 1366 system new!
I bring up that system for its age as I have many computers all across the landscape of time from the 2009 Dell to current new systems.
Window 11 has had not one glitch on any of the so called out of date hardware and sometime actually works better on Windows 11 than Windows 10.
And the only thing that has stopped the 2009 Dell 1366 system is a few games that AVX-2 instructions.
Window 11 works like butter on all my stuff old or not.
Reply
USAFRet
computerdave911 said:rumor is they will end security updates to 11 on unsupported hardware after 10 ends,, i enrolled my win 10 pc for free yesterday good till oct 2026 now, its free now, just need to create another user account and sign in to it with a microsoft account or change your user if want,, and i got the enroll link under check for updates after 2 hours ,Unless you have some documentation from MS, "rumor is" is useless speculation.
At the pre and early release of Win 10, there were all sorts of "rumors" flying around that turned out to be totally untrue.
Reply
russell_john
You cannot remove some of the AI because it has been baked into the Kernel code since 24H2 ......
Reply
jackt
OR INSTALL LINUX !
Reply
CParsons
jackt said:OR INSTALL LINUX !Is the Year of Linux finally upon us?
Gp-CaTlxjLYView: https://youtu.be/Gp-CaTlxjLY
Reply
View All 10 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.