The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 6 days ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Source: Lenovo
Lenovo Yoga 9i (2025)
$1350
$1800
Save $450
Operating System
Windows 11 Home, Windows 11 Pro
CPU
Intel Core Ultra 258V
GPU
Intel Arc 140V
RAM
32GB LPDDR5X
Storage
1TB PCIe SSD Gen 4 M.2
Slim, light, and extremely powerful. This is the laptop to get if you want something that's easy to pack up and take with you on the go. And it's pretty expensive, but the $450 discount you can get right now can help.
$1350 at Lenovo
Expand
Collapse
The Lenovo Yoga 9i is one of those laptops that looks absolutely beautiful, but also packs some serious power despite its svelte size. We loved this laptop when we reviewed it, so it shouldn't come as a surprise that we'd recommend picking it up if you're looking for something new. The only hurdle is that this thing costs quite a bit, with a retail price of $1,800. Luckily, Lenovo is knocking $450 off, bringing it down to a more manageable $1,350 for a limited time.
The one to get if you can afford it
The design really takes center stage here, offering a look and feel that will "wow" you each time you touch it. In addition, you also get impressive power as well, with this model packing an Intel Core Ultra 7 258V processor that's paired with 32GB of RAM and 1TB of M.2 SSD storage. For the most part, this laptop is going to easily handle all the things you throw at it. While talking about hardware, we really can't forget about the display, with a 14-inch 2.8K 120Hz OLED touchscreen, delivering impressive colors and crisp details that work well for web pages, documents, movies, and more. Since this laptop features a 2-in-1 design, you can bend the screen back, and use the laptop as a tablet. Despite its thin profile, you still get plenty of connectivity here, with two Thunderbolt 4 ports, one USB-C, one USB-A, a 3.5mm audio jack, Wi-Fi 7, and a Bluetooth 5.4. There's also a 5MP camera that works well for video calls, and there's a four-speaker setup which is great for entertainment. This laptop gets it all done while taking up very little space doing it. Again, the $450 discount right now makes this laptop an attractive option if you're in the market. Just be sure to head to Lenovo's site to grab the discount. There are other models as well, so it's probably a good idea to browse the brand's selection.
Laptops
Lenovo
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
6 days ago
I tried cutting Windows out of my life with WinBoat, but I just can't recommend it
Sep 18, 2025
Undervolting my CPU was one of the best system "upgrades" I've ever made
6 days ago
VLANs are better than dozens of firewall rules, but here's how you can still segment your network without one
7 days ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
19 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Your next Snapdragon device may help you locate stolen devices right out of the box
This local AI agent running on a Raspberry Pi 5 is the perfect smart home addition
7 ways my TV works as a part of my home lab
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.