Shopify Pulls Design After Molly Baz Calls It an 'AI Version' of Her - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Exclusive
Shopify pulls website template after food influencer Molly Baz calls it a 'sicko AI version' of her
By
Madeline Berg
and
Dan Whateley
The images above — a screenshot of Shopify's website showing a template that has since been taken down, and the cover art for Molly Baz's cookbook — bear a striking resemblance, Baz said.
Shopify website; The cover for "More is More" by Molly Baz
2025-09-19T19:14:35Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Shopify has pulled a template from its website after being criticized by food influencer Molly Baz.
The cookbook writer accused Shopify of ripping off her image and speculated that the design was made using AI.
AI image generation has caused a proliferation of dupes, putting artists and creators on high alert.
Molly Baz, a New York Times bestselling author and food creator with around 829,000 Instagram followers, is accusing Shopify of ripping off her likeness.
Baz noticed that the e-commerce giant was offering a website theme for merchants that included an image that looked eerily similar to the cover art for her cookbook, "More Is More: Get Loose in the Kitchen."Shopify has since taken down the template, which it said was designed by a third-party developer.
The sample website design featured a woman in a red sweatshirt eating an onion ring in a butter-yellow kitchen. It resembles Baz's photo, which she used on her cookbook, website, and Instagram profile, down to the hand gesture and cut of her red sweatshirt."Shopify is using a sicko AI version of me to sell its new website themes," Baz wrote on Instagram. "Shame, shame.""A third-party theme developer used imagery resembling Ms. Baz without permission, which violates our terms," a Shopify spokesperson told Business Insider. "We immediately removed the theme using Ms. Baz's likeness once we became aware, have informed Ms. Baz's team, and are working with the developer to ensure this does not happen again."
Shopify did not respond to follow-up questions about its relationship with the developer that was listed on its website, Presidio, or whether other designs by Presidio were removed.It is unclear whether Presidio used artificial intelligence to create the theme, as Baz suggested. The developer has created websites for popular brands, including hair care company Ouai and restaurant group Momofuku, according to Shopify's website. The company did not respond to requests for comment.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Baz and her publisher, Clarkson Potter, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Peden + Munk, the photographers for "More Is More," declined to comment.
After leaving Bon Appétit Baz launched a Patreon, a platform that has found growing use from food-media entrepreneurs
Molly Baz
Generative AI could lead to unintentional copycat artThe rise of one-click AI image generation has put artists and creators on high alert for possible dupes of their work. It's raised questions around whether an AI platform that used their work for training, often without permission, could produce outputs that copy their likeness or artistic style."Given the enormous volume of data that these models are trained on, it's inevitable that some marketers who rely on those tools may inadvertently create and then use assets that could unknowingly infringe on someone's publicity rights," Robert Freund, an advertising and e-commerce lawyer, told Business Insider.Despite those risks, AI use is on the rise among some marketers who have begun using the technology to produce everything from written copy to imagery or even UGC videos.
And some bad actors have used celebrity likenesses without their permission on purpose. In 2023, MrBeast flagged a deepfake version of his likeness that was used to hawk $2 iPhones on TikTok, for example.
Recommended video
AI
Exclusive
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account