I thought my iPhone 17 Pro Max camera couldn't get better - then I found this accessory | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
I thought my iPhone 17 Pro Max camera couldn't get better - then I found this accessory
Insta360's latest Flow 2 Pro gimbal does a lot more than offer superb stabilization. And at this price, it's the one I recommend to most creators.
Written by
Matthew Miller, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 9:05 a.m. PT
View now at
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Today's smartphone cameras are so good that you can be a content creator without spending thousands on a dedicated camera. The optical image stabilization they have is also very good, but you can capture more creative shots and shoot in more challenging conditions with a smartphone gimbal.Insta360's latest smartphone gimbal, the Flow 2 Pro is one of the best options available, with advanced features and a reasonable price.Also: I tested the best iPhones in 2025: Should you buy the 17, Air, or Pro Max?I've been using the original Insta360 Flow gimbal since 2023, primarily to capture B-roll for my e-bike and running shoe reviews. It's a decent gimbal, but I have to extend the handle and tripod legs to fit my hand, and one leg broke so the tripod was no longer functional. I also had to remove my phone cases to use the extended clamp connector plate so that was a bit cumbersome.
details
View at
The first thing I noticed about the Insta360 Flow 2 Pro smartphone gimbal was the longer handle with silicone grip on the front. The tripod was redesigned so that three metal legs extend down three inches from the base and then out to create a solid platform that holds my iPhone 17 Pro Max even when the telescoping stick, which extends out eight inches, is fully deployed.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETIn addition to the improved handle design and tripod stability, the creator bundle includes the new magnetic phone mount that attaches to the back of the iPhone's MagSafe connector. The magnetic phone mount also serves as a reliable kickstand for your phone with a metal ring that extends down to prop up your phone in both portrait and landscape orientation.Support for Apple DockKit means that more than 200 iOS apps work with the gimbal without any additional accessories, allowing creators to use their favorite apps with the gimbal as the on-site camera operator. I personally prefer to use the Insta360 app with the gimbal and that provides the ultimate experience with its Deep Track 4.0 tracking system, but the great thing about this kit is that Insta360 supports your own preferences.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETWith advanced AI tracking, the gimbal will move and keep the selected subject, or subjects, in view throughout the recording. You can also use another phone or even your supported Apple Watch as a remote for the gimbal so you will never miss out on being a part of a group shot again. The Insta360 Flow 2 Pro has an integrated selfie stick that extends eight inches to help you capture selfies with the rear camera, but it also has a small selfie mirror on the back of the phone mount. I found this useful as the gimbal moves around, and plan to capture more selfie footage with the better rear cameras.Also: I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this timeOne aspect struggled with on the original Insta360 Flow gimbal was using the thumb controls. The directional pad and touch sensitive ring have been redesigned for improved ergonomics and I was able to quickly use the various shooting modes without getting overwhelmed by the options.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETThe Flow 2 Pro provides up to 10 hours of battery life and includes a USB-C port so you can top off your phone and keep shooting for hours. The creator bundle also includes a small light that attaches to the accessory USB-C port to provide focused light in low light conditions. The Spotlight accessory is available for just $14.99. An AI tracker module, with an included light, is also available for $39.99 and it provides AI tracking in third party apps for Android and iOS users.Also: I found a $170 mobile gimbal that rivals my DJI - and it's easy to set upThe Insta360 Flow 2 Pro is clearly optimized for the iPhone, but most core features are available on Android in the Insta360 app. The ones that aren't available on Android are multi-person tracking, Active Zoom tracking, and smartphone remote control. If you want to use the Flow 2 Pro with an Android phone, I recommend the AI Tracker module to take advantage of Insta360's advanced AI recognition algorithms.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETOne final feature I've tested out a couple of times is the integrated teleprompter function that supports pasting your script into the Insta360 app. You can then mount your phone and record with the selfie front-facing camera while reading the teleprompter. You can have the text scroll with your specified timing or even rotate the rear dial to scroll the text up the display. I highly recommend you check out the tips and tricks article from Insta360 to optimize your use of the Flow 2 Pro gimbal.Best mobile deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy A36 5G 128GB Unlocked Phone (Awesome Black):  $350 (save $50)
Samsung Galaxy S24 FE 128GB Unlocked AI Phone (Gray):  $525 (save $125)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100)
Apple iPhone 14 128GB Unlocked Phone (Refurbished, Midnight):  $338 (save $291) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
ZDNET's buying adviceAlthough I love shooting on my Sony Alpha camera, my smartphone is always with me and lets me capture more consistent content. Tthe Insta360 Flow 2 Pro gimbal is small and light, so it also has been traveling with me everywhere. The gimbal unfolds and lets you mount your phone in seconds so I plan to use it even more in order to capture better content to share with family, friends, and other viewers.Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 14 Pro: Why I'm upgrading my model after three years of use
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use