This exclusive discount makes the best smart lock I've ever tested that much better | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Smart Home
Home Security
This exclusive discount makes the best smart lock I've ever tested that much better
The Lockly Visage Zeno Series is one of the smartest devices you can add to your smart home, especially when paired with this ZDNET-exclusive discount.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 10:12 a.m. PT
Maria Diaz/ZDNETLockly Zeno Series Smart Locks with 10% off (use code ZDNET10A) exclusive offer
3/5 Editor's deal rating View at Lockly Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I've tested many smart locks over the years. Still, the Lockly Visage Zeno Series stands out for its innovation, reliability, and level of security -- it's why it is a recipient of a ZDNET Editors' Choice award. For a limited time, you can use the ZDNET10A discount code to get an exclusive 10% discount on Lockly Zeno Series Smart Locks at Lockly.com and Amazon.Also: I witnessed Eufy's stair-climbing robot at IFA 2025 - and it's likely the next big thing for vacuumsThe Lockly Visage Zeno Series uses facial recognition to automatically unlock your door as you approach -- and it works as seamlessly as Face ID on my iPhone. If you'd rather opt out of facial recognition, the smart lock supports multiple fallback methods, including fingerprints, PIN code entry, Apple Home Key, remote control via the app, and a physical key.
exclusive offer
Lockly Zeno Series Smart Locks with 10% off (use code ZDNET10A)
View at Lockly Many people hesitate to use facial recognition technology because of privacy and security concerns. Still, Lockly assures users that facial data is encrypted, stored locally within the lock instead of being uploaded to the internet. Aside from protecting your facial data from hackers breaching servers, the Visage Zeno Series also has multiple security protections within the scanning mechanism. This smart lock uses binocular IR cameras to build a 3D map of your face, so it can't be fooled by pictures or video. Radar motion detection also helps confirm that a real human is present before the lock even begins scanning a face, reducing spoof attempts. Also: Your Blink subscription price is going up - unless you act fastLockly pushes regular security and firmware updates to the smart lock through the mobile app, and encrypts communication between your phone and the lock.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETThe Lockly Visage Zeno Series is the most accurate and consistent smart lock I've used -- and I've tested many. Compared to other popular smart locks on the market, including the Aqara U100, my previous favorite, this Lockly is sturdier, and its fingerprint scanner is far more reliable.Instead of constantly replacing AA batteries, the Visage Zeno Series uses a rechargeable battery pack, and each smart lock includes two, so you never go without a battery. Also: How I completed my ultimate smart home setup with this tablet hub (and why it works)I love that I can simply walk up to my door to unlock it, but I can also add my kids' fingerprints so they can get inside when we get home from school. I also add guest codes and even guest fingerprints so all our authorized family members can unlock the door, and we always know who unlocked it and when. How I rated this dealThe 10% discount available with the ZDNET10A code is available on the Lockly website and Amazon. This code only applies to the Lockly Zeno Series Smart Locks shipped within the United States. Only one code can be used per order, and it cannot be combined with any other offers, promotions, or discounts. Here's what your cart should look like once the discount is applied.
Screenshot by Kayla Solino/ZDNETWhile the 10% discount would earn this deal a 2/5 in ZDNET's Editor's deal rating system, Lockly products are highly rated and rarely on sale, which sweetens the deal, so I bumped the offer up to a 3/5 Editor's deal rating.
When will this deal expire?
This is a ZDNET-exclusive deal and is scheduled to expire on Sept. 27.While many sales events feature deals for a specific length of time, other deals are on a limited-time basis, making them subject to expiring at any time. ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best offers to help you maximize your savings so you can feel as confident in your purchases as we are in our recommendations. Our ZDNET team of experts constantly monitors the deals we feature to keep our stories up-to-date. If you missed out on this deal, don't worry -- we're continually sourcing new savings opportunities at ZDNET.com.
Show more
How do we rate deals at ZDNET?
We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech.In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-picked deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts.Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Wyze launched a new biometric smart lock, and its price might be the best part
These 7 smart plug hacks changed how I run my home - here's the setup
8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use