Strange Horticulture's sequel turns antiquing into puzzle gold
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Strange Antiquities is all about the joy of haunted trinkets
Strange Horticulture's sequel turns antiquing into puzzle gold
By
Giovanni Colantonio
Published 3 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Strange Antiquities
Related
Life is Strange's TV adaptation needs one crucial thing to capture the game's heart
5 days ago
3 Game Pass games we're playing this weekend (Sept. 12-14)
6 days ago
The Penguin may not be a limited series after all
3 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Iceberg Interactive/Bad Viking
The thing about dating someone who’s into vintage trinkets is that you end up in a lot of antique shops. It’s an adventure I’ve come to love over the past few years. There’s nothing like walking into a musky store that feels displaced in time and looking at shelves lined with alien objects. What is this thing? Who made this? Why? Every curiosity is its own mystery. Strange Antiquities, a follow-up to 2022’s excellent Strange Horticulture, bottles that experience up into a delightful deduction game and adds in a drop of occult magic. It’s a puzzle game for anyone who wants the joy of browsing without the dust-induced sneezing fit that comes with it.
Rather than running a flower shop like developer Bad Viking’s previous game, Strange Antiquities puts you in charge of a store that sells mysterious artifacts. Each one is some form of foreboding totem or mysterious necklace adorned with gems and runes. It’s your job to give customers the item they need despite having no idea what anything is. To do that, you’ll look through your handy catalog of inventory in search of contextual clues that hint at what it looks like. An entry might tell you what shape to look for, how heavy it is, or what material it's generally made out of. Bad Viking gets so much mileage out of what’s essentially a second go at the same idea. What begins as a simple-enough task soon becomes the basis for ever-evolving puzzles that require me to look at an object from every angle. At one point, I get a book detailing different gemstones, allowing me to deduce the hidden meaning in something I assumed was just purely decorative. I use scales to test weight, inspect objects to hear the sound they make, and even work out how an object might need to combine runic symbols to create its desired magic effect. There are several layers of mystery underneath that satisfying identification hook. Customers slowly tell me of the chaos brewing outside the store (it involves a lot of birds), there are secret nooks in my shop that I discover through notes passed to me from a mailman, and I can find new trinkets by following clues to correctly locate specific areas on a series of maps. There are puzzles within puzzles within puzzles, creating an eerie rabbit hole that builds out a world I never actually see from the counter of my safe shop.
It gets complicated, but a very generous hint system makes it easy to find a lead and let you focus on enjoying the creepy-cozy vibe of it all. Don’t be ashamed of using it either: failing too many times will drop you into a somewhat tedious Yahtzee-like minigame where you need to make the proper dice matches to avoid losing your sanity. While those inevitable failures wore me out a little in later chapters, Strange Antiquities nails the feeling of being a certified trinket enjoyer. Even now in my own home, I often think about the haunted statue of a regal woman that stares at my bed from a bureau across from it. It’s one of my girlfriend’s prized possessions, which she has named Amelia. She doesn’t know anything about the statue’s origins; she just won it on a whim in an online auction. I’ll likely never know who it’s a statue of, when it was made, or where it used to live. I know there’s a story there that I’ll never solve, and that allure keeps me staring at it every night before I fall asleep.
Impressions
Gaming
PC
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
Every big announcement from Nintendo Direct September 2025
6 days ago
The Game of the Year race might come down to difficulty
5 days ago
The Nintendo Switch 2's year-one game lineup keeps getting stranger
6 days ago
Helldivers 2 is getting pulled into the Charlie Kirk assassination investigation
More from our brands
Every Premier League Club's Third Kit For 25/26 Season [Ranked]
Dead by Daylight: Best Builds for The Huntress (2024)
That's Not My Neighbor: Every Answer To Chester's Quiz
Hollow Knight: Where To Find Every Mask Shard
A Storied Life: Tabitha Preview: A Heartfelt Unpacking-Inspired Story Told Through Trinkets
All Hollow Knight Silksong Tools (List and Locations)
Hollow Knight: Silksong: Choral Chambers Full Guide and Walkthrough
Most Popular
Shelby Oaks should kickstart Chris Stuckmann's horror movie career
The Dragon Prince fans are funding a spinoff series starring Liam O’Brien
Hamish Linklater describes The Boys and Gen V showrunner Eric Kripke in a normal way
Tencent punches back at Horizon Zero Dawn lawsuit, says game isn't that unique
Silksong isn't stressful enough, it needs health bars
A horror legend's zombie legacy continues in Queens of the Dead
See More
Trending Now
Gen V has found a villain worthy of The Boys
As Steal A Brainrot takes over Fortnite, fans worry about the platform's future
28 years later, this award-winning Star Wars manga is getting a gorgeous new edition
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.