All Deals : Furniture Store : Targetskip to main contentskip to footerTarget Circle™Target Circle™ CardTarget Circle 360™Registry & Wish ListWeekly AdFind StoresCategoriesDealsNew & featuredPickup & deliverysearchAll Deals : FurnitureTargetAll Deals : FurnitureSponsoredLoading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Trending Searchescalifornia closetsbox spring fullbean bag couchdesk hutchfull bed framecomputer deskplastic tabletwin bed frame with storagequeen headboardhall tree with benchShow all 150 All Deals : FurnitureRefresh every room in your home for less with furniture that’s on-trend & affordable, too. Find perfect pieces for large homes, small spaces, apartments, dorms, studios, condos, lofts and more. Welcome yourself and guests with a warm, organized space when you enter your home. Start with entryway furniture like console tables, coat racks, entry tables, mudroom bench, shoe cabinet and more for your keys, bags, shoes and coat. How about an update to your living room? Find living room furniture like beautiful living room sets or our favorite living room collections. If you prefer curating your living room’s look, start by selecting a couch in your favorite aesthetic—farmhouse, boho, traditional or modern. A stylish sofa is the centerpiece of your living space. Coordinate furniture to match or add an accent piece - options include sectional couches or couches for sale, recliner, barrel chairs, chaise lounges, chaise sofa, rocking chairs, sofa bed and loveseat. An accent chair like a Papasan chair or saucer chair is an easy way to add a fun pop of pattern or fun color to the space. Finish the room with a functional accent like a lift top coffee table (so perfect for binge sessions with snacks!), coffee table with storage, ottoman coffee table, storage ottomans, end table, room divider, curio cabinet, tv stand with mount or a fireplace tv stand, 80 inch tv or TV cabinet. Based on your room size and shape, choose a round coffee table, square coffee table, small side table, corner table, c table or a small folding table. Pick your favorite color or material type from a wide range of marble coffee tables, black coffee table and more. Let’s talk kitchen and dining furniture updates! Your kitchen/dining room is the heart of your home. We have dining tables, pantry cabinet, pub tables, drop leaf tables, dining chairs, wine racks, hutch, kitchen tables, kitchen chairs, kitchen island carts, microwave carts and much more. Looking to make a few updates to your bedroom? Make furnishing your home easy with our huge selection of bedroom furniture & bedroom furniture sets. Done and done. Or pick pieces on your own. Whether it’s a twin bed, king bed, full size daybed, trundle bed, queen platform bed, king platform bed or even floating bed, it’s got to be comfortable. Start with a bed frame available in a variety of sizes like queen bed frame, twin bed frame, king size bed frame, california king bed frame, twin xl bed frame etc. Go for a daybed or storage bed for added convenience. Other add-ons include a [url=https://www.target.com/c/[u]headboards-bedroom-furniture/-/N-5xtne]headboard[/url][/u], [url=https://www.target.com/c/[u]sideboards-buffet-tables-kitchen-dining-furniture/-/N-5xtmm]sideboard[/url][/u], a comfy mattress, box spring and a nightstand. Find the right box spring for your bed from a range of queen box springs, king size box springs and twin box springs. white nightstands and black nightstands coordinate with a variety of decor styles. Add an accent piece to your bedroom with mirrored nightstands. Finish your bedroom with a traditional wood dresser, dresser, jewelry armoire, vanity desk, foot stool or storage bench that offers lots of storage. Choose your favorite from a variety of white dressers, black dressers, tall dressers, 6 drawer dresser, dresser with mirror, malm dresser, hemnes dresser or even a mid-century modern dresser. Got a man cave or entertainment room? Trick out the space with sweet pieces, like an entertainment center. They come in simple or more complex designs. Add a gaming chair or bean bag chairs like a giant bean bag or big joe bean bag chair for the ultimate fun, casual and cozy zone. Gaming chairs come in many colors & types like respawn gaming chair, pink gaming chair and more. Create a space where everyone will love hanging out. Bar stools complete your seating arrangement. Add swivel bar stools or bar stools with backs to set up a fun entertaining space. A futon with a comfy futon mattress or a pull out couch does double duty as extra seating and a crash pad for house guests. Add more storage to your space with a corner bookshelf, white bookshelf, ladder shelf, corner shelf or a spacious wardrobe closet to store all your essentials.
Put together a fun kids’ room with a toy organizer, pink desk chair, craft table, kids’ desk set or a kids’ computer desk. There are also teen desk, l shaped desk, desk with hutch, study desk and other desk tables available for study spaces. Setting up a home office has never been easier. Based on your space find desks, chairs and tables to fit your needs. Look through a collection of small desk, writing desk, ladder desk, small corner desk, laptop table, bed desk, small writing desk and mini desk to match your lifestyle. There are also color and decor style options like a modern desk, glass desk, white computer desk, wood desk, mid-century modern desk, farmhouse desk, white writing desk, white corner desk, small writing desk & white and gold desk available. Our selection of task chairs and computer chairs, like serta office chair or a sleek white chair, will help you find the perfect seat to match your desk. Give your electronics their own place with a printer stand and computer stand. Finish the space off with filing cabinets or a bookcase that does more than store. Display favorite photos, books, decor & more to personalize your work space. However, you furnish you space, make it uniquely you.Show moreSponsoredGet top deals, latest trends, and more.Email addressSign upPrivacy policyFooter