Mistakes People Make When Talking About Money, From Etiquette Expert - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Finance
5 mistakes people make when talking about money with loved ones, according to an etiquette expert
By
Alyshia Hull
According to an etiquette expert, there are some common mistakes people make when talking about money with loved ones.
Montri Thipsorn/Shutterstock
2025-09-17T12:47:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
We asked an etiquette expert about the common mistakes people make when discussing money.
She said inquiring about how much something costs may come off as intrusive and judgmental.
It's also important to avoid having these types of conversations in a public setting.
From asking how much someone spent on their vacation to making offhand comments about a friend's salary, people make plenty of etiquette mistakes when talking about money with loved ones.
However, that doesn't mean money should be a topic that's off-limits altogether.That's why Business Insider spoke with etiquette coach Mariah Grumet Humbert about the biggest mistakes people make when talking about this sensitive topic. Here's what she said.
Criticizing others for spending money on hobbies
What someone spends money on in their free time is their business.
Portra/Getty Images
When you criticize someone for spending money on hobbies, it can seem like you're dismissing things that bring them joy.Because everyone values different things in life, Grumet Humbert said it's important to remember that what seems frivolous to one person might be deeply meaningful to someone else.Whether it's a personal collection of items or an expensive hobby, how someone chooses to spend their money is not anyone else's business.
Asking how much a big purchase costsAnother common mistake is asking someone how much they spent on something, whether it's a wedding, a new house, a car, or a luxurious vacation. It's best to avoid these questions, as they can come across as judgmental."Basic etiquette is that we don't want to ask somebody how much they spent on something, even if it's your family member," Grumet Humbert told BI.Instead of asking someone how much they spent on an item or experience, she suggests coming from a place of genuine interest and kindness.
She said a more thoughtful approach might be to say something like, "That vacation looked incredible. I hope you had a great time."Discussing salary details
Sharing salary details can cause tension.
Pormezz/Shutterstock
It's generally considered poor etiquette to ask someone how much money they make.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"The only time that a salary conversation is appropriate is if you're fighting for equal pay in the workplace, or you're having that private conversation with your team, or HR department," Grumet Humbert said.
Keeping salary discussions out of casual conversations helps maintain respect, avoid comparisons, and prevent unnecessary tension.Failing to properly communicate when it comes to splitting costsWhen it comes to shared financial situations, like buying a group gift or dining out, a common mistake is failing to communicate upfront about how the costs will be divided.For example, buying a gift and asking everyone to chip in without discussing a budget or payment method ahead of time can catch others off guard.
The same applies to dining at restaurants. That's why it's important to decide at the start whether you'll split the check evenly or if you'll each pay your share. According to Grumet Humbert, there's nothing wrong with either option, as long as everyone has set the expectations in the beginning and any misunderstandings have been cleared up.Bringing up money in the wrong setting
There's a right time and place to have conversations about finances.
Rob Daly/Getty Images
Financial conversations with family and friends are sometimes necessary, but according to Grumet Humbert, discussing them at the wrong time can lead to embarrassment or conflict.
For example, she said it's best to avoid bringing up financial concerns during a big gathering, where you risk airing someone's personal issues in front of others. It's important to set aside a specific time to sit down with them privately and voice your concerns in a calm, non-judgmental way. Focusing on finding a solution rather than placing blame also helps keep the conversation productive and supportive.
Recommended video
Money
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account