EPA Disclaimers | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental TopicsAirBed BugsChemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency ResponseEnvironmental Information by Location HealthLand, Waste, and CleanupLeadMoldRadonResearchScience TopicsWater TopicsA-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & RegulationsBy Business SectorBy TopicComplianceEnforcementGuidanceLaws and Executive OrdersRegulations
Report a Violation
Report a ViolationEnvironmental ViolationsFraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPAOur Mission and What We DoHeadquarters OfficesRegional OfficesLabs and Research CentersPlanning, Budget, and ResultsOrganization ChartEPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
Web Policies and Procedures
EPA Disclaimers
Related Information
About PDFs, Free Viewers, and Readers to Read and Print EPA Information
About Social Media at EPA
On This Page:
Disclaimer of Endorsement
Copyright Status
Disclaimer of Liability
Exit Disclaimer
Notice
Terms of Use for Geospatial Data
Interacting with EPA on Social Media
"Lock" Icon
Disclaimer of Endorsement
Mention of or referral to commercial products or services, and/or links to non-EPA sites does not imply official EPA endorsement of or responsibility for the opinions, ideas, data, or products presented at those locations, or guarantee the validity of the information provided. Mention of commercial products/services on non-EPA websites is provided solely as a pointer to information on topics related to environmental protection that may be useful to EPA staff and the public.
Copyright Status
The U.S. Government retains a nonexclusive, royalty-free license to publish or reproduce these documents, or allow others to do so, for U.S. Government purposes. These documents may be freely distributed and used for non-commercial, scientific and educational purposes. Commercial use of the documents available from the EPA websites may be protected under the U.S. and Foreign Copyright Laws. Individual documents on the EPA website may have different copyright conditions, and that will be noted in those documents.
Disclaimer of Liability
With respect to documents available from the EPA website, neither the United States Government nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately owned rights.
Exit Disclaimer
The Exit icon denotes that you are leaving the EPA website and entering an external link or a third-party site.
EPA's official web site is www.epa.gov. EPA has provided this link because it provides additional information that may be useful or interesting and is being provided in a manner consistent with the intended purpose of the EPA website. Please note that EPA uses third-party sites to provide EPA content already on www.epa.gov in a different format.
EPA cannot attest to the accuracy of non-EPA information provided by these third-party sites or any other linked site. EPA is providing these links for your reference. In doing so, EPA does not endorse any non-government websites, companies or applications.
Also, please be aware that the privacy protection provided on the EPA.gov domain (EPA Privacy and Security Notice) does not apply to these third-party sites. To learn more about EPA and social media, please refer to& our social media page.
Notice
Information from the EPA website resides on numerous computer systems funded by the Agency. The use of the EPA websites may be monitored for computer security purposes. Any unauthorized access to the EPA website is prohibited and is subject to criminal and civil penalties under federal laws including, but not limited to, Public Law 99-474, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986.
Terms of Use for Geospatial Data
These geospatial data and corresponding cartographic materials have been approved for use by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as advised by the EPA Geospatial Advisory Committee (EGAC). This approved release is on the condition that neither the EPA nor the U.S. Government may be held liable for any damages resulting from its authorized or unauthorized use. These data and any corresponding products, services, or materials do not necessarily represent the EPA’s official position or viewpoint, expressed or implied. These content items are not intended for use in establishing liability or calculating cost recovery statutes of limitations. They cannot be relied upon to create any rights, substantive or procedural, enforceable by any party in litigation with the United States or third parties. Additionally, although these data have been processed successfully on EPA computer systems, no warranty expressed or implied can be made regarding the accuracy or utility of the data on any other system or for general or scientific purposes, nor shall the act of distribution constitute any such warranty. The Agency reserves the right to revise EPA-stewarded datasets pursuant to further analysis and review without public notice. Unless otherwise specified, geospatial data produced by the EPA is by default in the public domain and is not subject to domestic copyright protection under 17 U.S.C. § 105.  Referenced data from non-EPA sources are neither inherently verified nor independently tested by the Agency in all circumstances. Permission to reproduce copyrighted items not produced by the EPA must be secured from the copyright owner. EPA strongly recommends careful attention be paid to metadata files associated with these data to better understand limitations, restrictions or intended use. The U.S. EPA shall not be held liable for improper or incorrect use of the data.
Interacting with EPA on Social Media
We encourage you to share your thoughts as they relate to the topic. The views expressed in comments reflect those of the author and do not necessarily reflect the official views of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the federal government.
We encourage interaction, but expect comments generally to be courteous. To that end, we have established the following guidelines with respect to social media comments.
We reserve the discretion to hide or remove comments that:
contain obscene, indecent, or profane language;
contain threats or defamatory statements;
contain hate speech directed at race, color, sex, national origin, ethnicity, age, religion, or disability; or
promote or endorse services or products. (Note that non-commercial links that are relevant to the topic or another comment are acceptable.)
Copyrighted and other proprietary material should not be posted or shared in any form on EPA social media accounts unless permission to do so is clearly indicated. In posting comments, the commenter grants EPA (and anyone viewing the EPA comments) irrevocable permission to copy, distribute, make derivatives, display or perform the commenter's work publicly and free-of-charge.
We recognize that the internet is a medium unbound by regular business hours and your interactions are welcome at any time. However, given the need to manage federal resources, reviewing and replying to comments will generally occur during regular business hours Monday through Friday.
Reporters are asked to send questions to EPA Media Contacts, rather than commenting on EPA social media posts.
For EPA guidance and policies about comments on regulations and dockets, please reference our Commenting on EPA Dockets webpage.
To protect your privacy, please do not include information (e.g., an e-mail address or phone number) in the text of your comment that identifies you.
Additional guidance as to how EPA regards privacy issues can be found within the Privacy and Security Notice.
Thank you for taking the time to read these guidelines.
"Lock" Icon
Links to websites behind the EPA firewall, such as work.epa.gov and usepa.sharepoint.com, will display a  "Lock" icon  denoting that you need to be inside the firewall to access pages.
Web Policies and Procedures
Open Sidenav Menu
Close Sidenav Menu
Web Policies and Procedures Resources
EPA Web Standards
Historical Memoranda
Plain Writing
EPA Disclaimers
Contact Us About Web Policies and Procedures
Contact Us About Web Policies and Procedures to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on January 30, 2025
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.