Before You Buy the Apple Watch 11, Enjoy These 9 Hidden Features in Your Current Apple Watch - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our wellness advice is expert-vetted. Our top picks are based on our editors’ independent research, analysis, and hands-on testing. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessMedical Health Tech
Before You Buy the Apple Watch 11, Enjoy These 9 Hidden Features in Your Current Apple Watch
Even if you've been a devoted Apple Watch owner for years, you might not know about these hidden features.
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II Anna Gragert (she/her/hers) was previously the lifestyle editor at HelloGiggles, deputy editor at So Yummy and senior lifestyle editor at Hunker. Over the past 10+ years, Anna has also written for the L.A. Times, Elle, Bust Magazine, Dazed, Apartment Therapy, Well+Good and more, focusing on all things lifestyle, health and wellness. Expertise Mental health, Personal care, Nutrition, Sleep
See full bio
Anna Gragert
Sept. 16, 2025
5:00 a.m. PT 10 min read
Your Apple Watch can do more for your health than you might realize. Anna Gragert/CNET
Prior to the latest Apple Watch Series 11 launch, Apple brought back the blood oxygen feature to its Series 6 watch and later versions, as well as for the Apple Ultra watches. This tool lets you check how much oxygen your red blood cells are carrying from your lungs throughout your body, something many users don't even realize their watch can do.Whether you have the newest version or not, the Apple Watch is packed with health-focused features that often fly under the radar. Beyond tracking steps or calories, it can monitor your heart,
sleep and fitness routines.To break down what these hidden features can actually do for your health, we spoke with a doctor at Apple. Here's what you should know if you want to get the most out of your watch and use it as more than just a fitness tracker.Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source.Apple Watch Series 10
$359 at Amazon
1. The Vitals app metricsUsing overnight health metrics, the Vitals app can reveal much about your health and how it changes daily. From heart rate and wrist temperature (available on Apple Watch Series 8 or later and any Apple Watch Ultra model) to respiratory rate and sleep duration, you can get a thorough picture of your health from just one glance at your watch. If you purchased an Apple Watch sold in the US before Jan. 18, 2024, you may also be able to measure your blood oxygen. "When two or more of your metrics are out of range, we will notify you with information about why that might be," Dr. Lauren Cheung, a clinician at Apple, told CNET in an email. "How it works is just after you wake up, you might see a notification from the Vitals app. For example, maybe your heart rate and wrist temperature were high -- this could be due to illness or alcohol consumption."With the health information provided by the Vitals app, you can make informed decisions about your body. If specific metrics are outside your normal range, you can choose to get extra rest that day or visit your doctor if you have particular symptoms. Best Apple Watch
See at CNET
How to set up the Vitals app on the Apple WatchTo set up your typical range, you must wear your Apple Watch for at least seven days. Ensure your watch is not loose on your wrist; otherwise, it might not capture accurate readings. To set up notifications, go to Settings on your Apple Watch, tap Vitals and turn on notifications. For sleep specifically, make sure Track Sleep with Apple Watch is set up and Sleep Focus is enabled. To do so, open your iPhone's Health app, tap Get Started under Set Up Sleep, tap Next and then follow the on-screen prompts. You can also use your Apple Watch's Sleep app and follow the on-screen instructions. 2. Noise notifications
AppleYou can use the Noise app on your Apple Watch to measure the sound levels in your environment. You can also enable noise notifications so your watch can tell you when you're exposed to dangerously loud sounds. When asked why noise notifications were added to the Apple Watch, Cheung said, "The world can be loud, and we believe it's important for you to be educated and empowered about how your environment, and the noise around you, can impact your hearing health over time. That way, you can take action; whether that's moving to a quieter space or popping in AirPods Pro 2 with Hearing Protection."With the AirPods Pro 2, Apple also offers a Hearing Test that can give you a baseline for your hearing health and help you adjust accordingly. Or you can even use your AirPods Pro 2 as a hearing aid. Apple AirPods Pro 2
$199 at Amazon
How to set up Noise notifications on the Apple WatchSimply go to the Watch app on your iPhone, tap My Watch, tap Noise, tap Noise Threshold and then pick a decibel level. Different limits are listed based on World Health Organization recommendations. 3. Ovulation estimates "The technology is pretty remarkable," Cheung said. "We created new temperature-sensing capabilities on Apple Watch that help you understand nightly changes from your baseline temperature, which can be caused by exercise, jet lag or even illness. The unique two-sensor design improves accuracy by reducing bias from the outside environment, detecting changes as small as 0.1 degrees Celsius."With the Apple Watch Series 8 or later and all Apple Watch Ultra models, this technology allows the Cycle Tracking app to estimate when ovulation occurs. "The reason we can do that is because after you ovulate, there is a biphasic shift, or in other words, an increase in temperature in response to changing hormones," Cheung said. This can also help improve the Cycle Tracking app's period predictions.How to set up ovulation estimates on the Apple Watch First, set up Cycle Tracking with fertility predictions enabled and no ongoing cycle factors logged. To do so, open your iPhone or iPad's Health app, tap Browse on the iPhone or open the iPad's sidebar, tap Cycle Tracking, tap Get Started and follow the on-screen instructions. You will also want to ensure you set up Track Sleep with your Apple Watch and have Sleep Focus enabled for at least 4 hours per night for five nights. To set up Sleep, follow the instructions in your Apple Watch's Sleep app. 4. Fall detection
Apple/Screenshot by CNETAccording to Cheung, many Apple Watch users have reported the benefits of fall detection. "For those who have an active lifestyle, they can choose to enable it during workouts -- the feature is able to recognize the unique motion and impact of falls from a bike and other workout types," Cheung said.If your watch detects a hard fall, it will sound an alarm, display an alert and tap you on the wrist. With the alert, you can either dismiss it by tapping "I'm OK" or contact emergency services. The watch automatically calls if you've been immobile for around a minute. After, it will message your emergency contacts with your location. If you don't have cellular or Wi-Fi coverage, Fall Detection may reach emergency services via the Emergency SOS via satellite system (if available). Note that Apple Watch can't detect all falls and may mistake a high-impact activity as a fall. How to set up fall detection on the Apple Watch To enable it, on your iPhone, open the Watch app, tap My Watch, tap Emergency SOS and turn Fall Detection on or off. If enabled, you can choose whether you want it to always be on or only during workouts. This works for Apple Watch SE, Apple Watch Series 4 or later and Apple Watch Ultra or later, and if you inputted your age when you set up your Apple Watch or in the Health app, the Fall Detection feature turns on automatically if you're 55 or older.5. Heart health notifications For those with Apple Watch Series 1 or later and people aged 13 and over, you can have your Apple Watch alert you if your heart rate is high or low or has an irregular rhythm. "For the most part, you don't have to do anything besides turn them on," Cheung said. "They work passively in the background as you live your day. If your heart rate is unusually high or low, you can get a notification, so you can take action. And if your heart rhythm shows signs of atrial fibrillation -- an irregular heart rhythm -- you'll receive a notification."
Cheung said atrial fibrillation as the most common type of arrhythmia among adults, which can have serious side effects on your health if not treated. "For instance, it's the leading cause of stroke," Cheung said. "And some people with AFib can have little to no symptoms, so they may not even realize they're experiencing episodes and ultimately may not seek attention."If you get an irregular rhythm notification, you can speak with your doctor and even share a PDF that includes information about your heart health notifications and, if you take one, your electrocardiogram. Available on Apple Watch Series 4 or later and all Apple Watch Ultra models, the ECG app allows you to take a test that records the timing and strength of the electrical signals that make your heartbeat.How to set up heart health notifications on the Apple Watch To set up heart rate notifications, go to the Apple Watch app on your iPhone, tap My Watch, tap Heart, tap High Heart Rate and choose Beats Per Minute, tap Low Heart Rate and choose a BPM. For irregular rhythm notifications, open your iPhone's Health app, tap Browse, tap Heart, tap Irregular Rhythm Notifications and enable them. 6. Time in daylight
AppleYour Apple Watch's ambient light sensor can automatically estimate your time in daylight. If you manage a family member's Apple Watch, you can also see how much time they spend in daylight. "There are a few reasons it's important to be aware of how much time in daylight you're getting," Cheung said. "For adults, research shows that spending around 20 minutes outdoors every day has both physical and mental health benefits, including providing essential vitamin D and even boosting your mood."Time in daylight is crucial for kids' vision health. "The International Myopia Institute recommends children spend 80-120 minutes outside each day to help lower their risk of myopia, or nearsightedness," Cheung said. How to set up time in daylight on the Apple Watch Start by making sure that Motion Calibration & Distance is turned on. You can do so in the iPhone's Settings app. Tap Privacy & Security, tap Location Services, turn on Location Services, tap System Services and ensure that Motion Calibration & Distance is on. To view your time in daylight, go to your iPhone's Health app, tap Browse, tap Other Data and then tap Time in Daylight. 7. State of mindYou can log your emotions and daily moods in the Mindfulness app on your Apple Watch, which can help you identify your feelings and notice patterns in your mental health. From the app, you can also take time for a Reflect or Breathe session, which can tell you more about your heart rate once complete. "Emotional awareness and regulation is an important element of mental health and we're happy to be introducing tools and resources for our users across the world," Cheung said. "One of the tools we introduced is State of Mind, which can help tremendously in a few ways. First, the act of using it can create benefits for your mental well-being in and of itself. Second, it can help you identify important insights and trends on what might be contributing to your state of mind so you can take action. And third, it can encourage you to check in with yourself using depression or anxiety assessments in the Health app."Cheung added that taking the time to identify our feelings can help us control how we respond to our moods and emotions. This can positively affect our health and, over time, allow us to build resilience. How to set up State of Mind on the Apple Watch In your Apple Watch's Mindfulness app, tap State of Mind and then tap Get Started if it's your first time using it. From here, you can log how you feel in the moment or how you've felt overall that day. To see your history and patterns over time, open your iPhone's Health app, tap Browse, tap Mental Wellbeing, tap State of Mind and tap Show in Charts. From there, you can also view how your State of Mind relates to your sleep, exercise, time spent in daylight and mindful minutes.8. Sleep apnea notifications
Apple"Sleep apnea is a prevalent disorder where breathing momentarily stops during sleep, preventing the body from getting enough oxygen," Cheung said. "It's estimated that sleep apnea impacts more than 1 billion people worldwide and, in most cases, goes undiagnosed. If left untreated, it can have important health consequences over time, including increased risk of hypertension, type 2 diabetes and cardiac issues."If your Apple Watch detects elevated breathing disturbances while you sleep over 30 days, you will receive a sleep apnea notification. From there, you can create a PDF showing when sleep apnea may have occurred, three months of breathing disturbance data and more, which you can then share with your doctor to discuss the next steps. This feature is available on the Apple Watch Series 9 or later or Apple Watch Ultra 2. Just make sure you have the latest version of WatchOS and iOS. Note that this feature is intended for people aged 18 or older who have not already been diagnosed with sleep apnea. How to set up sleep apnea notifications on the Apple Watch Make sure Sleep is set up. On your iPhone, open the Health app, tap Get Started under Set Up Sleep, tap Next and follow the on-screen steps. Then, wear your Apple Watch to bed for at least 10 nights over 30 days. To turn on sleep apnea notifications, open the Health app on your iPhone, tap Browse, tap Respiratory, tap Set Up under Sleep Apnea Notifications, tap Next and then follow the on-screen instructions. Under Respiratory, you can also view your sleep apnea notifications and breathing disturbances.9. Handwashing With Handwashing, the Apple Watch Series 4 and later can detect when you begin washing your hands and time you until you reach the recommended time of 20 seconds. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also recommends this as the minimum amount of time. If you stop washing your hands before 20 seconds, your watch will encourage you to keep going. It can even remind you to wash your hands whenever you return home. "We wanted to find a way to help our users of all ages track their time spent washing their hands, especially during a time when it was particularly important early in the pandemic, so we introduced the feature in 2020," Cheung said. "The approach uses machine learning models to determine motion which appears to be handwashing, and then uses audio to confirm the sound of running water or squishing soap on your hands."How to set up handwashing on the Apple Watch On your Apple Watch, open Settings, tap Handwashing and turn on the Handwashing Timer. You can do the same on a managed Apple Watch and set up handwashing reminders.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.