Can the Gold Rush Continue? Warning Signs for Investors | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Alternative Investments
Can the Gold Rush Continue? Warning Signs for Investors
Can the Gold Rush Continue? Warning Signs for Investors
The yellow metal has been on a tear, but caution may be warranted.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA
Sep 2, 2025
Share
Gold has been seemingly unstoppable since November 2022, when it hit its lowest level in the postpandemic era. Since then, the yellow metal has more than doubled in price to more than $3,400 per ounce as of this writing, close to its all-time high of $3,500 per ounce.
Gold Price Over Time
Source: Morningstar Direct. Data as of Aug. 23, 2025. Download CSV.This price runup hasn’t gone unnoticed. UBS, RBC Capital Markets, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, and VanEck have all published positive research comments about gold in recent months. And DoubleLine CEO Jeffrey Gundlach recently commented in a Bloomberg interview: “I think of gold as a real asset class. It’s no longer for lunatic survivalists and wild speculators.”I think of gold as a real asset class. It’s no longer for lunatic survivalists and wild speculators. Jeffrey GundlachSurging gold prices have been driven by two main factors. Central banks have traditionally leaned heavily on the US dollar as a reserve asset partly because of the size and strength of the US economy, as well as the belief that the creditworthiness of US Treasuries is rock-solid. With the national debt continuing to balloon, that perception has shifted a bit, and many central banks around the world have been on a quest to “de-dollarize” their reserve assets. Instead of dollars, they’ve been aggressively buying up gold.Second, gold is traditionally viewed as a safe haven during periods of macroeconomic uncertainty. There’s been plenty of that this year, with rapid changes in tariff policy, questions about how tariffs will affect economic growth, and some signs that consumer confidence has already been waning. Geopolitical turmoil has been another reason to buy for investors seeking a port in the storm.As a result, gold now ranks as the top-performing major asset class over the trailing 20-year period through Aug. 27, 2025, with annualized returns of 10.7%. It also ranks at the top over most other trailing periods.
Trailing Returns
Source: Morningstar Direct. Data as of Aug. 27, 2025. Returns for periods greater than one year are annualized. Download CSV.Can gold’s bull run continue? It depends. Any continuation in aggressive central bank purchases and/or macroeconomic uncertainty would be positives, as would a potential decline in interest rates. Lower interest rates are typically helpful for gold prices because they reduce the opportunity cost of holding gold instead of fixed-income securities. A continued decline in the dollar could also be a tailwind, as gold has historically had a fairly strong negative correlation with the dollar. However, those factors may not be enough to offset the potential risk now that gold is trading at such a pricey level. Academic researchers Campbell Harvey and Claude Erb have found that, over time, gold prices tend to revert to the mean. When gold is trading at elevated prices in inflation-adjusted terms, prices have often declined in subsequent periods. That happened in 1980, when steep prices were followed by a long period of sluggish returns during most of the following decade. The same pattern showed up when the real price of gold reached a peak in August 2011, which was followed by a sharp downturn from 2013 through 2015.Given this pattern, it’s probably not the ideal time to buy gold when it’s already trading near an all-time high. The chart below plots the long-term trend in inflation-adjusted gold prices (based on price divided by CPI). The current number is more than twice the long-term average.
Gold Price vs. Inflation Since 1975
Source: Morningstar Direct and https://fred.stlouisfed.org. Data as of July 31, 2025. Chart is adapted from Erb, C. and Harvey, C., 2013. "The Golden Dilemma." National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper 18706. Download CSV.Another reason for caution: Gold has historically gone through extended periods of either boom or bust, as shown in the exhibits below. Some of the boom years included the late 1970s and 2001 through 2011, both periods when the gold price more than quintupled.
Gold's Upside Returns During Previous Bull Runs
Source: Morningstar Direct. Data as of July 31, 2025. Download CSV.But the downside has been painful. For example, the price of gold fell by more than 17% per year, on average, during the period from October 1980 through February 1985.
Gold's Downside Risk in Drawdown Periods
Source: Morningstar Direct. Data as of July 31, 2025. Download CSV.In fact, gold’s tendency toward the extremes means that it can actually be more volatile than stocks despite its reputation as a safe haven. Over the period from 1972 through July 2025, gold has averaged a monthly standard deviation of 19.6, compared with about 15.5 for US stocks.And in addition to extreme highs and lows, there have also been periods when gold has gone through more protracted slumps. After the price of gold started one of its declines toward the end of 1987, it continued losing ground in inflation-adjusted terms and didn’t break even again until November 2005. During the secular bull market from 1982 through 2000, when US stocks racked up annualized returns of nearly 17% per year, the price of gold saw steady declines of nearly 2% per year, on average. This partly reflects the fact that gold isn’t a cash-generating asset. As Warren Buffett has said, it just sits there and looks at you. That can be a good thing if your main goal is maintaining purchasing power over longer periods, but not so good if you’re trying to build wealth.While it doesn’t always generate long-term growth, the case for gold as a portfolio diversifier remains strong. Gold’s correlation coefficient of 0.03 when measured against the Morningstar US Market Index is lower than that of any other major asset class (including bonds), and well below the higher levels (in the range of 0.2 to 0.4) it reached in some previous periods.
Rolling Three-Year Correlations vs. Morningstar US Market Index
Source: Morningstar Direct. Data as of July 31, 2025. Download CSV.Still, the recent runup in gold means potential risk is even higher than usual. In my opinion, it’s prudent to limit any gold exposure to 5% of the total portfolio (or less). And it’s important to keep in mind that the current bull run probably won’t last forever.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Alternative Investments
View All
Managed-Futures Funds Look to Rebound. Can They Help Diversify Your Portfolio? Whipsaws hurt now, resilience matters later.
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 18, 2025
Ask Your Advisor These Questions Before Investing in Derivative Income ETFs Derivative income ETFs like JEPI are hot, but are they a good investment idea for you?
Jason Kephart and Susan Dziubinski Sep 4, 2025
How Private Equity Funds Understate the Risk in Their Investments A closer look at “volatility laundering” in private equity, and how investors should account for it.
Larry Swedroe Aug 28, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Portfolio Strategist
More from Author
Amy C. Arnott, CFA is a portfolio strategist for Morningstar. Email Amy at amy.arnott@morningstar.com. She reads all of the emails she receives but doesn't always have time to send a personal response.
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Should You Hold Cash Investments After the Fed Cuts Interest Rates?
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 19, 2025
Larry Jacobson: ‘The Good Things in Our Life Are What Get in the Way of Great Things’
Christine Benz Sep 16, 2025
How to Use Large-Cap Stocks in a Portfolio
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 15, 2025
Why Cash Is Still King for Short-Term Goals
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 12, 2025
Scott Bondurant: Why Mean Reversion Means Your Portfolio Should Have More Stocks
Christine Benz Sep 9, 2025
How to Use Taxable Bonds in a Portfolio
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 8, 2025
Can the Gold Rush Continue? Warning Signs for Investors
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 2, 2025
6 Lessons From Losing a Friend and Colleague
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Aug 26, 2025
This Classic Investment Strategy Is Still Alive in 2025
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Aug 22, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility