Rare wooden-cased Apple-1 computer blasts past auctioneer estimate — sells for almost half a million dollars | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Artificial Intelligence
Apple I replica can run ChatGPT
Gaming PCs
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Retro Gaming
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
Retro Gaming
Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone
Retro Gaming
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
Retro Gaming
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Retro Gaming
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Desktops
$9 Goodwill PC find earns congratulations from enthusiasts
PC Building
Bargain of the century? Lucky Goodwill shopper pays $30 for a PC, finds $1,200 RTX 3080 Ti and $400 Ryzen 7 inside
Mechanical Keyboards
Norbauer's $8,000 keyboard waitlist climbs to 9 months
Cryptocurrency
A Bitcoin whale just sold $9.5 billion in crypto that was originally acquired for $54,000 in 2014
CPUs
Apple M1 Pro, once a flagship, now feels more like a $12 hair clip
Retro Gaming
Commodore acquired for a ‘low seven figure’ price
Retro Gaming
Commodore acquisition completed by fan-led consortium
Macbooks
Rumored $599-$699 MacBook could be in the works
Tech Industry
Rare wooden-cased Apple-1 computer blasts past auctioneer estimate — sells for almost half a million dollars
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
22 September 2025
A Steve Jobs signed $10 check also went for nearly double its estimate, at $46,250.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: RR Auctions)
A very rare Apple-1 computer sold for a significant amount more than the auctioneer's estimate in Boston this weekend. Last week, we reported on the rare Byte Shop wooden case Apple-1’s impending auction. At the time, it had scaled to $144,311 in pre-live bidding, with an estimate of $300,000. On Saturday, RR Auctions achieved a sale of $475,000 (w/BP) for its client. That’s nearly 60% better than expected.Ahead of the auction day (Saturday), RR Auctions shared an interesting video showing this Apple-1 in action, which might have helped propel sales.
Apple-1 Computer with Rare 'Byte Shop' Wooden Case - A High-Grade, Fully Functional Example - YouTube
Watch On
Above you can see this Byte Shop wooden cased computer, thought to be just one of just nine surviving examples (from 50 made), being used for coding and executing programs. In the brief clip, you can see the cassette interface, keyboard, and Apple Basic being used. The hands-on demonstration ends with the ‘Apple the 30th ASCII Demo’ running, with text-based imagery of Jobs, Wozniak, and the Apple logo output to the included monitor.
You may like
Apple I replica can run ChatGPT
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
Image 1 of 6(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)(Image credit: RR Auctions)How did this example achieve such a price?There were a number of factors in this sample’s favor that allowed it to significantly leapfrog the estimate. Above, we mentioned that it is a 1-in-9 rare surviving sample. It is also remarkably complete – check our previous article for a list of what was included in this auction.Beyond the vintage physical computer equipment, this machine also had some extra provenance. It is known as the ‘Moore Apple-1’, which is “a complete and working setup owned by the first female graduate of Stanford Law School, June Blodgett Moore."Technology artifacts, especially those closely associated with Apple, are still hot property. There will have been plenty of enthusiasts and collectors with their eye on this, and many will have abundant disposable income.The auction of the 'Steven Jobs' signed Apple Computer Company check also ended on Saturday. Encapsulated and graded as a ‘Mint 9’, it was expected to fetch $25,000. However, it was already almost that price in pre-live bidding. On the day, it ended up going for $46,250 (w/BP).Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
(Image credit: RR Auctions)Big premiumsRR Auctions' final prices include a ‘Buyer’s Premium’ (BP) of 25%. Given this, we can assume the hammer price at the conclusion of the Apple-1 auction was $380,000, and $95,000 was added to the settlement for the BP, to give the $475,000 (w/BP) total. That’s quite a nice fee for the auctioneers, and comes with the territory for collectors who want to get their hands on computing relics in this manner.The Steve Jobs check, which sold for $46,250 (w/BP), will have reached an auction hammer price of $37,000.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
TOPICS
Apple
See all comments (0)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
Apple I replica can run ChatGPT
Lucky bidder scoops $8,000 PC for $23 at auction
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
Commodore 64 Ultimate eclipses 10,000 units sold milestone
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Latest in Tech Industry
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
OpenAI makes flurry of deals in drive towards for-profit model
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Latest in News
Intel might be working on its own multi-frame generation tech — "XeSS MFG" appears in Arc driver files
GPD Win 5 handheld soars above the competition with Strix Halo inside
China's latest GPU arrives with claims of CUDA compatibility and RT support
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.