Panama Ministry of Economy discloses breach claimed by INC ransomware
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
BreachForums hacking forum admin resentenced to three years in prison
Get 8 courses to kickstart or advance your security career for $30
Microsoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office apps
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityPanama Ministry of Economy discloses breach claimed by INC ransomware
Panama Ministry of Economy discloses breach claimed by INC ransomware
By Bill Toulas
September 11, 2025
02:26 PM
0
Panama's Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) has disclosed that one of its computers may have been compromised in a cyberattack..
The government noted that it activated the security procedures for these situations, stating that the incident has been contained and didn't impact core systems that are vital to its operations.
"The Ministry of Economy and Finance informs the public that today an incident involving possible malicious software was detected on one of the Ministry's workstations," MEF says in an official statement.
"The established security protocols were immediately activated, and preventive measures across the entire IT system were reinforced to contain the intrusion."
"It is important to emphasize that none of MEF's central systems or platforms have been compromised and they continue operating normally."
Panama's MEF is an important ministry in the country, managing fiscal policy, public spending, and debt management. Most importantly, it handles the Panama Canal revenues, the country's largest source of income.
The MEF says that personal and institutional data are safe, and all industry-standard measures are in place to prevent future incidents.
Hoewever, the INC Ransom gang has claimed an attack on MEF last week in a post on its data leak site. The hackers say that they stole more than 1.5 TB of data from MEF's systems, including emails, financial documents, budgeting details, and more.
The threat group added MEF to its list of victims on the dark web on September 5, and leaked data samples in the form of internal documents as proof of the breach.
INC Ransom claiming the Panama MEF attackSource: BleepingComputer
BleepingComputer contacted MEF to ask about the validity of INC Ransom's claims, but we have not received a response by publication time.
INC Ransom emerged in mid-2023 as a ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS). They targeted multiple high-profile victims such as Yamaha Motor, Xerox Business Solution, Scotland's NHS, McLaren Health Care, the Texas State Bar, and Ahold Delhaize.
In May 2024, a threat actor using the moniker "salfetka" posted on the Russian-speaking hacking forums that they had the source code for the ransomware and offered to sell it for $300,000.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Nissan confirms design studio data breach claimed by Qilin ransomwareLovesac confirms data breach after ransomware attack claimsPennsylvania AG Office says ransomware attack behind recent outageMATLAB dev says ransomware gang stole data of 10,000 peopleIT system supplier cyberattack impacts 200 municipalities in Sweden
Data Breach
Data Leak
Government
INC Ransom
Panama
Ransomware
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Sponsor Posts
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT