Gnocchi Potato Salad Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Homemade Potato Salad
Garden Vegetable Gnocchi
Homemade Potato Gnocchi
Easy Italian Potato Salad
Veggie Pasta Salad
Instant Potato Gnocchi
Baked Potato Salad
Sweet Potato Gnocchi
Garden Vegetable Pasta Salad
Cauliflower Gnocchi
Pasta Vegetable Salad
Potato Salad with Cucumbers
Creamy Italian Potato Salad
Grilled Italian
Potato Salad
Vegetable Potato Salad
Vegetable Pasta Salad
Italian Potato Salad
Gnocchi Potato Salad Recipe photo by Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
Home SaladsPotato SaladsCreamy Potato Salads
Gnocchi Potato Salad
Gnocchi Potato Salad Recipe photo by Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Cook: 15 min.
By
Susan Bronson
Recipe by Susan Bronson, Rhinelander, Wisconsin
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 20, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
When you can't decide between pasta salad or potato salad, why not have both? This gnocchi potato salad recipe combines pillowy gnocchi with classic potato salad ingredients, including mayo, mustard and pickles.
Growing up, potato salad always found its way onto our dinner table in the summer. My dad’s recipe continues to be my favorite, with its classic combination of mustard, mayo, chopped hard-boiled eggs and pickles all tossed together with freshly boiled and cubed red-skinned potatoes. The only downside of this potato salad recipe is that it takes a bit of time, from prepping and boiling the potatoes to waiting for the salad to chill in the refrigerator—but the internet turned me on to an ingenious hack: using prepared gnocchi in place of the potatoes.
This gnocchi potato salad has all the flavors I love from my dad’s recipe but takes a fraction of the time to prepare. Even better, you can serve it warm, although it’s just as tasty served chilled from the fridge. This delicious potato salad would be a fabulous side to serve with burgers or a perfect pick for a summertime picnic.
Ingredients for Gnocchi Potato Salad
Gnocchi: Gnocchi are Italian dumplings made from potatoes. They are cut in a pillow shape and have ridges on their sides to capture the sauce (or, in this case, the potato salad dressing). For this recipe, use shelf-stable gnocchi. You should be able to find it in the pasta aisle alongside dry pasta noodles.
Mayonnaise: Mayonnaise adds a creamy flavor to this potato salad. Use your favorite brand, or if you don’t have one, try one of our Test Kitchen’s picks for the best mayonnaise.
Dijon mustard: Dijon mustard adds a tangy and slightly spicy flavor to the potato salad. If you don’t have Dijon on hand, you could easily substitute yellow mustard.
Hard-boiled eggs: Hard-boiled eggs add protein, a soft texture and a bright yellow color to the salad.
Sweet pickles: The sweet and tangy flavor of sweet pickles adds a nice contrast to the savory flavors of this gnocchi potato salad.
Fresh thyme: Fresh thyme adds a pop of green and fresh herbal flavor to the potato salad.
Directions
Step 1: Cook the gnocchi
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
Heat the olive oil and butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add the gnocchi and cook until golden brown, about five minutes per side. Remove from the heat.
Editor’s Tip: Boiling shelf-stable gnocchi can result in a gummy and mushy texture, so we skip that step and saute them in butter instead.
Step 2: Make the dressing
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
In a large bowl, stir together the mayonnaise, mustard, vinegar, salt, pepper, minced fresh thyme and smoked paprika.
Step 3: Combine the ingredients
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
Add the gnocchi to the bowl and stir to combine. Gently fold in the chopped eggs and pickles. Serve warm, or cover and chill in the fridge until ready to serve.
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
Gnocchi Potato Salad Variations
Add more veggies: Amp up the colors and flavors of this potato salad by adding chopped bell or sweet peppers. Chopped olives, diced red onions or chopped cherry tomatoes would add more flavor, and chopped celery or cucumber would add some nice crunch.
Heap on the herbs: Chopped fresh dill, basil or parsley would pair well with this gnocchi potato salad.
Bring on the bacon: Fry up a couple of strips of bacon, roughly chop them and fold the bacon into the gnocchi potato salad to add a salty and savory flavor.
Pop on some pine nuts: Toast nuts for the topping. A tablespoon of toasted pine nuts would add a rich nutty flavor and crunchy texture to the potato salad.
How to Store Gnocchi Potato Salad
Leftover gnocchi potato salad should be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Gnocchi tend to soak up more dressing than regular potatoes, so you may need to whip up a small batch of the dressing to re-dress the salad as needed.
If the salad has been left out at room temperature for more than two hours, any leftovers should be discarded.
How long does gnocchi potato salad last?
For the best flavor and texture, gnocchi potato salad is best consumed within two days of preparation.
Gnocchi Potato Salad Tips
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
Can you use homemade gnocchi for potato salad?
The firmer texture of shelf-stable gnocchi lends itself well to this potato salad recipe. It also makes the salad much easier and quicker to put together. However, you can use homemade gnocchi if you prefer. After boiling the fresh gnocchi, saute the gnocchi in butter to crisp up the texture a bit, as called for in this recipe.
What else can you serve with gnocchi potato salad?
Gnocchi potato salad is a tasty side to serve with summer barbecue favorites such as baby back ribs, steak and shrimp kabobs, grilled pork chops or barbecue chicken.
Test Kitchen Approved
Gnocchi Potato Salad
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:4 servings
Prep:20 min
Cook:15 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 tablespoon butter
1 pound potato gnocchi
1/4 cup mayonnaise
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 tablespoon minced fresh thyme
1 teaspoon white wine vinegar
1/2 teaspoon smoked paprika
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
2 hard-boiled large eggs, chopped
1/4 cup chopped sweet pickles
Text Ingredients
Directions
Heat olive oil and butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add gnocchi; cook until golden brown, about 5 minutes per side. Remove from the heat.
In a large bowl, stir together mayonnaise, Dijon mustard, thyme, vinegar, smoked paprika, salt and pepper.
Add gnocchi to the bowl; stir to combine. Fold in chopped eggs and pickles. Serve warm or cover and chill in the refrigerator until ready to serve.
Nutrition Facts
1 serving: 430 calories, 21g fat (5g saturated fat), 123mg cholesterol, 999mg sodium, 50g carbohydrate (1g sugars, 4g fiber), 11g protein.
Author
Susan Bronson
With 25 years of food and science writing under her belt, Susan is able to test pretty much any recipe for Taste of Home. She works from her small family farm in northern Wisconsin, where she also runs a food blog that features scratch-made meals. When Susan is not working on recipes or working as a science writer and editor, she's spending time wi...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Make this gnocchi potato salad when you're craving potato salad, but still want to try a new recipe. Soon, it'll become your new favorite summer side dish! —Susan Bronson, Rhinelander, Wisconsin
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box