Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: I compared both models, and there's a big difference | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: I compared both models, and there's a big difference
The iPhone 17 is a clear step up from the iPhone 16 - but is the Pro model truly worth it this year? Here's how it compares.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 13, 2025 at 1:31 p.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple's long-awaited iPhone 17 lineup has arrived, and as speculated, it replaces the Plus model with an iPhone 17 Air. However, the focus remains on the more expensive Pro series. The iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max now offer better thermals to keep the device cool, an aluminum build for more funky colors, and a few other essential quality-of-life improvements. Also: Everything Apple announced during its September eventIf you're eyeing the iPhone 16 Pro at lower prices in the market or own one already, here's how the latest-gen iPhone compares to its predecessor.SpecificationsiPhone 17 ProiPhone 16 ProDisplay6.3-inch OLED 120Hz, 3,000 nits6.3-inch OLED 120Hz, 2,000 nitsWeight206g199gProcessorApple A19 ProApple A18 ProStorage256GB/512GB/1TB128GB/256GB/512GB/1TBBattery33 hours of video playback27 hours of video playbackCamera48MP wide, 48MP ultrawide, 48MP telephoto; 18MP front48MP Fusion camera, 48MP ultrawide, 12MP telephoto; 12MP frontColorsCosmic Orange, Deep Blue, SilverBlack Titanium, White Titanium, Natural Titanium, Desert TitaniumPriceStarting at $999Starting at $999Buy the Apple iPhone 17 Pro if…
Apple/ZDNET1. You want a more durable iPhoneApple says the iPhone 17 Pro is the most durable iPhone ever. It features Ceramic Shield 2 on the front, which is said to be three times scratch-resistant than before. Additionally, there's Ceramic Shield on the back, which is four times stronger than before. If your current iPhone is prone to scratches and bothersome to you, the iPhone 17 Pro would be the perfect new phone. 2. You need a better displayI am an iPhone 16 Pro user, and my biggest problem with it is screen legibility in direct sunlight. I need to wipe the display whenever I want to use it outdoors. It gets smudgy and doesn't get bright enough for a comfortable viewing experience. Apple seems to have fixed this issue with the iPhone 17 Pro.Also: How to preorder Apple's new devices: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3, and moreAs mentioned, the new Pro iPhone sports Ceramic Shield 2 on the front. It isn't just more resistant to scratches but also adds a 7-layer anti-reflective coating on top of your screen. This is paired with a display that is rated to go up to 3,000 nits in peak brightness outdoors (vs. 2,000 nits on the 16 Pro). Theoretically, it is a quality-of-life improvement, which should offer a more legible experience.3. You want improved performance and battery lifeApple also improved the performance and battery life on its new iPhone 17 Pro. According to the company, it can last up to eight hours longer (in video playback) than before. The new Apple A19 Pro chipset is combined with a vapor cooling chamber to offer better thermal management. It offers 40% better sustained performance than before. The Cupertino giant said this is "MacBook Pro levels of compute in an iPhone." We'll test to find out in our review, but the claims do look promising.4. You shoot a lot of front camera videosThe iPhone 17 Pro houses a new 18MP selfie camera with support for Center Stage and "ultrastabilized" video recording. If you regularly record yourself, these two features will be immensely useful in your creations. Now, while running, you can record clear videos without all the shaky movements, and Center Stage will keep you in the frame, too.
Preorder the iPhone 17 Pro View now at AppleYou should buy the Apple iPhone 16 Pro if…
Kerry Wan/ZDNET1. You like the old design betterThe Apple iPhone 17 sports its most experimental rear design change in years. Until last year, Apple stuck to a design it pioneered years ago with the introduction of a three-camera layout on the iPhone 11 series. The camera module has only gotten bigger in the last five generations, but with the iPhone 17, it now extends to the other side of the phone. This might not be a design that die-hard Apple users wanted. And if you are one of them, the iPhone 16 Pro is the better phone for you. 2. You can get a new iPhone 16 Pro for under $800The Pro iPhones are only getting more expensive. But if you can get one near the price of an iPhone 17, even if it is a last-gen product, it makes sense to save a few hundred dollars and get the iPhone 16 Pro over the iPhone 17 Pro. Also: We tested the iPhone 16 Pro camera system, and it's highly underrated - with one tragic flawIt'll still give you versatile cameras, ProMotion screens, the goodness of iOS 26, and a decent battery life. With the iPhone 17 lineup going on sale in the coming weeks, the iPhone 16 Pro should be available for lower prices, and if you can get a good deal, go for it!3. You want a lighter Pro iPhoneThe Pro iPhone series has been getting heavier every year since Apple announced the lightest iPhone 15 Pro (187 grams). It shot up to 199 grams with the iPhone 16 Pro, and the iPhone 17 Pro now sits at 206 grams (back to iPhone 14 Pro weight) on the scale. A 200g+ phone might not be for everyone. So, if you want the lightest possible device out of these two, the iPhone 16 Pro is the phone to go for.
Buy the iPhone 16 Pro View now at Best BuyWant to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use