Smart plugs are unexpected essentials of any modern smart home
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
4 ways smart plugs became the unsung heroes in my smart home
By
Rich Edmonds
Published 13 hours ago
Richard is the PC Hardware Lead at XDA and has been covering the technology industry for almost two decades. He's been building PCs since young, and when not creating content, you can often find him inside a chassis somewhere.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
I used to loathe
smart home products, believing them to be little more than marketing fluff and rather pointless gimmicks, but I have grown to appreciate what modern devices can do for the home. Previously, you could use smart plugs to toggle various devices and appliances, which could range from light fixtures to a washing machine, depending on what you wished to achieve. But these smart plugs can do much more than that, thanks to more recent advances in technology. In my own smart home, I have transitioned from using these rather simple products for turning stuff on and off to relying on them for much more, including energy consumption tracking, security, and more.
Building a more sustainable smart home
Energy monitoring and conservation
I plan to eventually kit out our new home with solar panels, an inverter, and battery storage. This would enable us to effectively live off the grid on days with plenty of sunshine — and yes, these do exist in the UK! One of the most significant upgrades in modern smart plugs is the ability to
monitor power usage in real time. While traditional smart plugs only allow the control of power, newer models—like the Innr SP-242 have built-in energy meters that track voltage, current, power (watts), and even kilowatt-hours (kWh). I'm running quite the self-hosting home lab setup up and this proved invaluable.
Sure, one could throw a power meter into the mix, but I found these to be unreliable at best and a complete waste of money at worst, thanks to a few giving up on life after a few days' worth of use. That isn't the case with smart plugs, with these Innr plugs lasting for a good few weeks already without a single issue. It was a gamble at first since these were on sale and I've only had experience with
Innr light bulbs and nothing else from the brand, but I was pleasantly surprised by just how easy it was to connect these wireless plugs to my existing Zigbee network and create an expansive IoT-focused platform.
I use a smart plug to monitor the power draw of my Proxmox server, which hosts virtual machines and runs critical workloads.
I use a smart plug to monitor the power draw of my Proxmox server, which hosts virtual machines and runs critical workloads. The Innr plug not only tells me whether the server is on or off but also shows me how much power it consumes throughout each day. This insight helps me determine if the server is idling unnecessarily or if a specific virtual machine is using excessive resources. Over time, this data has allowed me to optimize my setup, reducing energy waste and extending the lifespan of my hardware. The missing piece of the puzzle? Home Assistant, which collates all the data and provides it in easy-to-follow graphs. I bought a pack of four Innr plugs and used the remaining three for other devices, including the TrueNAS storage system, primary gaming rig, and networking gear. This allowed me to check just how much each device is using and analyze ways to cut back on running costs.
Creating useful automations
Do much more than power toggling
Like other smart home hardware I attempted to use back in the day, depending on what you bought, the devices often worked in an isolated fashion. Even today, when purchasing branded devices, you may end up locked inside a walled garden, which can make it difficult to expand your smart home due to increased costs. Thankfully, Innr is fairly open in that you can control its branded products using almost anything, from official apps to Home Assistant and a Sonof Zigbee USB stick, which is precisely how I have my IoT network configured.
When paired with platforms like Home Assistant, smart plugs can
trigger complex routines that enhance convenience and efficiency. We will have an outbuilding used as the home office. It will be kitted out with an electric heater for the chilly British winter months, and instead of having to manually turn it on whenever we head to the office and wait for the room to heat up, the smart plug can do all the heavy lifting. Through integration with Home Assistant, we can use a smart thermostat and automations to turn on the heater a little while before we start work.
This ensures we're using the device responsibly, only heating the room to a specific temperature, overriding the local controls on the heater. It also means everything will be nice and toasty for when we start work, and will be handled automatically when scheduled to do so. I could even take it a step further and use a motion sensor to ensure someone is present inside the office, else the heater will remain off or a lower temperature maintained.
Securing the home while away
Remotely manage everything
There's nothing worse than being away from home and worrying about everything aside from your vacation. We've got a robust security system, consisting of a complete Ring alarm suite,
Frigate with half a dozen security cameras, and a dog. Adding to this suite of measures are our smart plugs, offering an additional layer of protection. All the plugs are monitored, so if anything is disconnected, I am alerted immediately. This is great, should a time arise that someone manages to bypass all our security systems.
I can also use my smartphone to turn off devices that might be left on accidentally, such as the aforementioned heater, and it should be easily spotted due to the increased power usage, which is also tracked through Home Assistant. Like bulbs can be used to imitate a homeowner being ... well, home, smart plugs can do the same by controlling various audible or visual hardware, such as external lighting. They're also great for when the festive season hits.
Customize my dream smart home
From cooling to Zigbee broadcasting
The best part about smart plugs is their ability to support custom configurations. Unlike "dumb" switches and plugs that only have two states, a modern smart plug can be programmed to respond to triggers and be integrated into a wider automation network. I've messed around with time-based schedules,
voice commands (using HA Voice), and even environmental conditions with sensors. Smart plugs can handle them all and more. I even toyed with using one to start up my PC automatically.
With Home Assistant,
Music Assistant, and other integrations, you can create quite a powerful landscape for automations and simple programming. And with a healthy smart home setup, multiple devices are controlled simultaneously. I created a way for a light in the hallway to turn red should someone be using the toilet during a house gathering. Then there's the "movie night" mode that turns down the lighting, flips on fairy lights for ambience, and even adjusts your smart blinds and room temperature.
Smart plugs are the unsung heroes of my smart home
They may not be the most exciting smart home products and are often overlooked for some truly awesome technology that can be integrated into and controlled through Home Assistant and other services. But smart plugs have use cases far beyond simply turning on and off your TV. It's easy, thanks to the power of Home Assistant, to use them for various tasks and automation, transforming these compact devices into powerful hubs.
Smart Home
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
Take $363 off this Samsung convertible laptop with an Intel Core Ultra 7 and AMOLED screen
3 days ago
I paired NotebookLM with VS Code for my coding classes, and I can’t believe how much easier coding got
2 days ago
6 things no one told me about living with an ultrawide OLED monitor
3 days ago
Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
Today's best deals
Score this Cooler Master wireless mechanical keyboard for 49% off and add a splash of color to your workspace
3 hours ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
15 hours ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 ‘just-enough’ Docker containers I use on every PC
Tdarr is the perfect tool to optimize your movie and TV show storage on your NAS
I cut back on my browser extensions, and these are the 3 I kept
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.