New Miss USA CEO Thom Brodeur Promises Big Changes in His Tenure - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Thom Brodeur is the new president and CEO of the Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants.
Phyllis Lane
Exclusive
Miss USA has been in crisis. New CEO Thom Brodeur wants to restore the pageant to its former glory.
By Anneta Konstantinides
2025-09-16T17:47:24Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
For the past five years, the controversy swirling around Miss USA has stolen the spotlight from the women in the pageant.There was a rigging investigation, sexual harassment and bullying allegations, and the resignation of a Miss USA and Miss Teen USA for the first time in the 74-year-old pageant's history.Now, Thom Brodeur is ready to take the reins, hoping to usher in a new era and restore the sparkle of Miss USA's tiara. He is the founder and CEO of Brodeur Beauty and a longtime pageant coach and judge. Noelia Voigt, the Miss USA queen who resigned, told Business Insider that it was a "new day on the horizon."
"I genuinely feel like going on my social media right now and telling every girl that has been afraid to compete in the USA system since I resigned to please go ahead and sign up now," Voigt said after Brodeur's reign was revealed. "Because I know things are going to be different."Yet even Brodeur's announcement wasn't without hiccups.On September 5, one day after Brodeur shared that he was the new president, chairman, and CEO of the Miss USA and Miss Teen USA brand, the previous CEO, Laylah Rose, said in a post on Instagram that she was still in charge and had not seen "any new contracts regarding any transfer of ownership." Rose has not responded to Business Insider's repeated requests for comment.
Miss USA Alma Cooper, Laylah Rose, and Miss Teen USA Addie Carver at the 73rd annual Miss USA Pageant.
Gilbert Flores/Variety via Getty Images
The Miss Universe Organization, which oversees Miss USA, put any questions surrounding leadership to rest on Tuesday when it officially announced that Brodeur had acquired the rights to both pageants.Now it's full steam ahead, with Brodeur announcing this week that the Miss USA and Miss Teen USA 2025 pageants will take place on October 23 and 24 in Reno, Nevada.For his first interview since being announced as the new leader, Brodeur sat down with Business Insider to chat about the future of Miss USA, his thoughts on Rose's pushback on his rollout, and what we can expect in the next era of pageants.Business Insider: Congrats on becoming the new president and CEO of the Miss USA brand. How does it feel to take on this position?
Thom Brodeur: It's wonderful. It feels great. This has been a journey of decades and a focused effort of the last nine and a half years, so it's good to finally be here.I've been around this industry for a very long time. I was a former pageant director in another pageant system. I've judged hundreds of state, national, and international competitions. I've coached thousands of women around the world over the years. I've worn just about every hat you could wear in the business.
Have a tip? Contact this reporter via email.
Can you share how you acquired Miss USA?I won't disclose the details of the financial components. It's a private company and a private transaction, but suffice to say, it's a significant investment. It is the largest investment of its kind for Miss USA and Miss Teen USA. That is indisputable.
In terms of how it came about, I think, generally speaking, people at the Miss Universe Organization have paid close attention to what has been going on with this brand for the last number of years. They recognized that because the Miss USA brand gave birth to the Miss Universe brand — that's how it happened back in 1952 — it was important to have solid leadership in charge of Miss USA for Miss Universe as a larger enterprise to continue to thrive.When you said this is the largest investment of its kind, do you mean it's the largest payment for the Miss USA franchise in its history?That is correct.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
You're the third person to take over Miss USA in five years. Why did you want to come on board at a time when this pageant is — I think many would say — in crisis?
Miss USA Noelia Voigt and Miss Teen USA UmaSofia Srivastava both resigned under Laylah Rose's reign.
Chance Yeh/Getty Images for Supermodels Unlimited
I've been known for being the guy who runs fearlessly at the broken thing and puts the right people in place to help fix it.My passion for this industry has existed since I was a teenager — and that is a very long time, I'm 55 years old — and my passion for the business is really, fundamentally, what drives me to want to find a way to help restore confidence, restore trust, restore credibility, reliability, and stability into this brand.Miss USA is 74 years old. Miss Teen USA is 42 years old. Miss USA will celebrate its 75th anniversary, which is remarkable. So, I also feel like the timing for all of this is really special.And what value do you see in the brand now, both as a businessman and someone who's been in the pageant world for so long?What's ironic is that we all seem to think being a social media or brand influencer is important, and a lot of us think being a reality television star feels important. And yet, if you think about pageantry dating back to 1952, when Miss USA and Miss Universe were born, that's the original reality television show, the original brand influencer — we just didn't call them that back then.
"America's It Girl" was how Miss USA was described for a long time, and it's time for people to recognize that again.I think we can argue, probably pretty effectively, that the last couple of Miss USAs and Miss Teen USAs have almost been invisible — and not by any design of their own. We have to create the opportunities that make them more visible and amplify whatever is important to them, and that's part of my goal here.You're taking over for a leader who had quite a tumultuous reign. What are the main things you want to change from the Laylah Rose era?The three core values for us are kindness, transparency, and responsiveness. Treating people with kindness and treating this bespoke journey they expect to have in a dignified way.
Transparency, and I mean truly being transparent — not keeping secrets, not hiding behind the dark, not hiding behind battalions of lawyers and legal documents and perpetual NDAs. Let people speak about their experiences, and then hopefully, if you've paid close enough attention to what they're telling you or trying to teach you, it'll help you do better.And at the end of the day, being responsive. One of the biggest problems with this organization has been a lack of clear, succinct, direct communication. When you have businesspeople trying to run a business that includes young women's lives, that responsiveness is one of the most critical things.Laylah had some thoughts about your announcement last week. How did you feel about that Instagram post, and have you been in contact with her?I didn't really feel much about her Instagram post to be totally candid.
The most important part for me, and the reason we stayed focused, is that there's a lot of work to do here. There's a lot of cleaning up of mistakes we didn't make, but results that we've inherited, and that's going to take time and patience, and nobody gets to point fingers.We need to make this year's Miss USA and Miss Teen USA pageants a 5-star experience in what's been a 2-star environment for a while.I heard that you were self-funding the Miss USA 2025 pageant. Can you confirm that?
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
We're self-funded currently and we'll continue to seek the support of sponsors and partners who want to participate with us.
Right now, it is that labor of love. But I don't know anybody who has come into a distressed business and not said, "We've got to throw what we have to throw at this to make it better until it's able to walk on its own two feet again."
Brodeur told Business Insider his three core values for Miss USA will be kindness, transparency, and responsiveness.
Phyllis Lane
In your Instagram post announcing you were the new Miss USA CEO, you discussed getting rid of the NDAs and restrictive contracts. Why was that important to you?My view is this: If you have nothing to hide, then don't.I think this organization, under previous leadership, spent time hiding, and that only made things worse. If you can take the shackles off a woman's voice that shouldn't have had shackles on their voice to begin with, you've done good work.
If people think there's a better way to do things and they want to express themselves — especially the women who wind up being titleholders for this organization — they should have the opportunity to do so.As a pageant coach, I know you had clients drop out of the Miss USA 2024 pageant because they had lost faith in the brand. Do you think it's going to be hard to restore that faith?My team knows we have a lot of work to do. But if this is any indication, when we first made the announcement on Instagram, nearly 560,000 people from around the world saw that post, and tens of thousands of them have interacted with it. The overwhelming feedback has been, "Finally, we see change coming."It's not a Thom Brodeur thing. It's that people love this brand, and they want to see it live, and they want to see it thrive again.
I did not expect the outpouring of support we got, not because I thought people were necessarily against a change, but I wondered, just how important is this to people? Do they think it's too far gone to repair?I saw a groundswell of fandom saying, "Nope, we still have hope here, and we're excited about what comes next."Another thing you mentioned in your game plan was restoring this image of the Miss USA who used to go to movie premieres. She was Olivia Culpo. She was a celebrity. How do you plan to make Miss USA relevant again?Visibility is a good starting point, especially visibility in the right places.
The calendar of events for Miss USA and Miss Teen USA — especially for Miss USA after she gets back from Miss Universe — is a pretty aggressive appearance roster.Once people start to see, "Oh, Miss USA is at that," and "Oh, Miss Teen USA is at that," I think there will be a renewed excitement for what it means to become Miss USA and Miss Teen USA.Miss Universe has had its own controversies, including CEO Anne Jakrajutatip commenting on Miss Universe 2024's blond hair and blue eyes. As the new Miss USA director, how do you navigate that?This may seem naive to say, but every organization intending to do good work will make mistakes. There will be things they do that they wish they hadn't.
I don't think there's a human being alive, myself included, who hasn't ever said something or done something and been like, "Gosh, I wish I could have said that differently or done that differently."If we stay committed to creating the absolute best opportunities and platforms for the women who compete in this system, all boats will rise as that water rises, and that will also set examples for other parts of the organization.When we last spoke, you said you didn't know what Miss USA stood for in the Laylah Rose era. What does it stand for in yours?Time is going to prove this out, and we have to do the work to prove it, but my goal is to reestablish Miss USA and Miss Teen USA as America's It Girls.
This interview has been condensed and edited for clarity.
Exclusive
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
More from Entertainment
Most popular
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account