Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF monitor review: A slick portable screen with solid gaming performance | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingBorderlands 4 woesAn Intel comeback?Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Gaming Monitors
Alienware AW2525HM 25-inch 320 Hz gaming monitor review: Colorful and competition-ready
Gaming Monitors
Asus ROG Strix XG32UCWMG 4K OLED gaming monitor review: Premium high-speed gaming and stunning imagery
Portable Monitors
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
Gaming Monitors
Titan Army C34A1R 34-inch WQHD 165 Hz gaming monitor review: Ultra-wide, ultra-value
Monitors
Asus ProArt PA32QCV 32-inch 6K professional monitor review: Plenty of pixels, color, and brightness
Gaming Monitors
Alienware AW3425DW WQHD QD-OLED review: Near-perfect color and premium performance
Gaming Monitors
Alienware AW2725D 27-inch QD-OLED QHD 280 Hz gaming monitor review: Rich color, high performance and excellent value.
Gaming Monitors
LG 27GX790A 480 Hz OLED review: Bright, colorful, and fast
Gaming Laptops
Asus ROG Strix G16 (2025) review: a well-rounded gaming laptop
Desktops
Asus ROG G700 review: Premium performance at a sensible price
Gaming Monitors
Dell S3225QC 32-inch 4K QD-OLED Monitor Review: Compelling gaming value
Gaming Monitors
Acer Predator SpatialLabs View 27 PSV27-2 3D gaming monitor review: Bleeding edge tech with solid performance
Gaming Monitors
Best 4K Gaming Monitors for PC 2025: 144Hz, Curved and More
Gaming Monitors
This 32-inch Asus ROG Mini LED gaming monitor is 27% off
Gaming Laptops
MSI Katana 17 HX gaming laptop review: 1080p gaming with Nvidia’s RTX 5070
Monitors
Portable Monitors
Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF monitor review: A slick portable screen with solid gaming performance
A 27-inch 100 Hz IPS QHD transportable monitor with a flexible stand and arm included
Reviews
By
Christian Eberle
published
13 September 2025
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image: © Tom's Hardware)
Tom's Hardware Verdict
The Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF makes the most of its specs to be a surprisingly good gaming monitor. With many convenience features and mounting options, it’s an excellent screen for gamers and users on the go.
$449 at Amazon $449 at Walmart $449 at ASUS $1,299 at Newegg
Pros
+Bright image with accurate color
+No calibration needed
+Package includes many flexible mounting options
+Solid gaming performance with lower-than-expected motion blur
+Excellent build quality
Cons
-Only 100 Hz
-No wide gamut color or HDR
-No G-Sync
Best picks for you
Best Portable Monitors 2025: Gaming and Laptop Productivity
Best 4K Gaming Monitors for PC 2025: 144Hz, Curved and More
Best Gaming Monitors 2025: Budget, Curved, G-Sync and More
Why you can trust Tom's Hardware
Our expert reviewers spend hours testing and comparing products and services so you can choose the best for you. Find out more about how we test.
Go to page:
Features and Specifications
Page 1: Features and Specifications
Page 2: Response, Input Lag, Viewing Angles and Uniformity
Page 3: Brightness and Contrast
Page 4: Grayscale, Gamma and Color
Page 5: Conclusion
Portable monitors have long occupied a niche market of small, lightweight displays that usually sacrifice features and performance on the altar of convenience. And rightly so, because if you loaded them up with tech and cred, they wouldn’t be very portable. Still, it would be nice to have something of decent size to game on, maybe as a second screen for that giga-hauler gaming laptop weighing down your tech bag.Asus attempts to fill that role with its ZenScreen MB27ACF. Most of the portables I’ve interacted with are 15 inches at best, but this one is 27 inches in size. However, it still weighs just 6.57 pounds and is 20mm thin. The panel is IPS with QHD 2560x1440 resolution, 100 Hz, FreeSync/VRR, and three internal speakers. It includes an integrated fold-out stand and a nice C-clamp arm for the desktop. Let’s take a look.Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF SpecsSwipe to scroll horizontallyPanel Type / BacklightIPS / W-LED, edge arrayScreen Size / Aspect Ratio27 inches / 16:9Max Resolution and Refresh Rate2560x1440 @ 100 HzNative Color Depth and Gamut8-bit / sRGB+Response Time (GTG)5msBrightness (mfr)300 nitsContrast (mfr)1,500:1Speakers2.1 channel w/1.5w subwooferVideo Inputs1x USB-CRow 9 - Cell 0 1x HDMI 2.0Audio3.5mm headphone outputUSB 3.0NonePower Consumption15.6w, brightness @ 200 nitsPanel Dimensions WxHxD w/arm24 x 17.7-24.6 x 12 inches (610 x 450-625 x 305mm)Panel Thickness0.78 inch (20mm)Bezel WidthTop/sides: 0.28 inch (7mm)Row 16 - Cell 0 Bottom: 1.3 inch (33mm)Weight6.57 pounds (2.98kg)Warranty3 yearsToday's best ASUS ZenScreen MB27ACF dealsASUS ZenScreen MB27ACF $449ViewSee all pricesWe check over 250 million products every day for the best pricesASUS ZenScreen MB27ACF (Black) at Amazon for $449The MB27ACF isn’t strictly a gaming monitor; it gives you most of what’s needed for decent play. The 100 Hz refresh rate is relatively low, but coupled with a decent overdrive, it delivers reasonably smooth motion processing with just moderate input lag. It includes Adaptive-Sync but only for FreeSync and VRR applications. It is not certified for G-Sync, and I was unable to use Nvidia’s frame-tear-eliminating tech. However, it works fine with Radeon video cards and consoles.The image comes from an IPS panel with QHD 2560x1440 resolution. That’s 109ppi in pixel density speak, enough for a nice, sharp image at close viewing distances. I also found decent off-axis quality and good reflection rejection from the screen’s matte finish. The color gamut is slightly larger than sRGB; I refer to it as sRGB+. I missed the greater volume offered by many gaming monitors, but in typical Asus fashion, it is accurate, and the MB27ACF makes the most of its capabilities. Calibration isn’t required, but you can make a few tweaks for a slight improvement.Ergonomically, the package is more complete than other portables I’ve encountered. There’s no carrying case included, but you do get a metal fold-out stand with rubber feet to keep it from sliding around. The stand doubles as a handle. A snap-on fixture in the back interfaces with a high-quality arm terminated in a large C-clamp. You can quickly install it on any desk or tabletop up to around four inches thick. And it comes with brackets to hang it from a cubicle partition. Should you want an aftermarket solution, there’s a 75mm VESA mount.For power, you get a small external brick, or you can connect the MB27ACF via USB-C for a one-cable solution. The only limitation is an 85-nit brightness cap. A 3.5mm headphone jack provides audio, and there are three internal speakers, one of which is called a subwoofer. My idea of a subwoofer is around a thousand times the size and volume of a computer monitor, but in practice, the MB27ACF puts out more bass than other desktop displays with internal speakers, so it is a definite improvement over the norm.Asus offers a solid package here for $449 at this writing. It sits in the middle between premium and budget pricing, but from what I’ve seen in this sparsely populated genre, the MB27ACF has no real competition.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Assembly and AccessoriesThe MB27ACF’s diminutive box is brimming with accessories. The panel can be used without any extras, including the power supply, if you plug it into a PC or laptop equipped with USB-C. The fold-out stand has a large angle range and includes rubber feet in just the right spots to keep everything from sliding about. The arm ends in a large C-clamp with around four inches of range. A small snap-on adaptor interfaces with the arm’s Z mount. Also included in the box are brackets for cubicle partitions, allowing you to hang the MB27ACF like a picture. HDMI and USB-C cables round out the parts bundle.Product 360Image 1 of 5(Image credit: Asus)(Image credit: Asus)(Image credit: Asus)(Image credit: Asus)(Image credit: Asus)From the front, the MB27ACF is all screen with a 7mm bezel around the top and sides. The bottom trim says “Asus” and is capped underneath by a clear plastic strip that floats the panel about 12mm off the desktop. Like the fold-out stand, it is also rubberized for added stability.The arm is super nice and could easily cost $100 on its own. It has a large clamp with rubber pads that protect your furniture from scratches. The panel snaps onto it using a small, round bracket, which is removable. The Z mount offers almost unlimited swivel plus fore and aft movement. The height adjustment is nearly seven inches and features a locking mechanism. The mount also includes a 90-degree portrait mode.The inputs are on the left side and include one HDMI 2.0 and a USB-C with DisplayPort function. You also get a DC plug for the small external power brick. A 3.5mm jack provides headphone support. If you power the MB27ACF through USB-C, brightness is limited to 85 nits. On the opposite side are control keys for power and menu navigation.OSD FeaturesPressing one of the MB27ACF’s side control keys opens a small menu with brightness, OSD, and power options. The user can change these shortcuts. The full OSD resembles a typical Asus menu, except that the background is white instead of black.Image 1 of 9(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)There are eight picture modes, and I was surprised to see no Racing mode. Standard is the default, and it is fairly close to standard, so calibration is optional. Next up is the blue light filter and color adjustments for different states of color blindness, called Color Augmentation. The Image menu has luminance sliders and a five-level overdrive called Trace Free. You can also toggle VRR here.In the Color menu are five gamma presets and three fixed color temps plus a set of RGB sliders. You can achieve a very precise calibration if you wish. In My Favorite, you can program the shortcut keys that appear on the right side of the screen to the settings you use most often.In case you were fuzzy on the MB27ACF’s gaming intent, Asus has thrown in its complete GamePlus suite with six aiming points, timers, frame counter, stopwatch, and display alignment marks. I wish they’d thrown in G-Sync too, but users of consoles and Radeon cards will get Adaptive-Sync/VRR through the full 100 Hz refresh rate range.From Asus’ ProArt side comes QuickFit, which is a handy set of on-screen templates for different paper sizes. It’s ideal for visualizing documents that you plan to print since they can be viewed at actual size.Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF Calibration SettingsThe MB27ACF doesn’t require calibration in its Standard picture mode, but I went for a grayscale adjustment anyway. The RGB sliders got me dialed in easily with a visible and measurable improvement. Gamma is spot-on whether you calibrate or not, and I was glad to see accurate presets included. Choices are always welcome. Unfortunately, HDR is not supported, so there’s nothing to report in that regard. My SDR settings are below.Swipe to scroll horizontallyPicture ModeStandardBrightness 200 nits68Brightness 120 nits36Brightness 100 nits28Brightness 80 nits20Brightness 50 nits9 (min. 28 nits)Contrast80Gamma2.2Color Temp UserRed 95, Green 93, Blue 99Gaming and Hands-onThe MB27ACF impressed me unexpectedly with its gaming ability. I’ve said for years that 144 Hz is a starting point, and I’m not changing that mantra. But Asus makes excellent use of every Hertz with a superb overdrive that is precisely tuned. Locking the frame rate at 100fps in QHD resolution is easy work for many video cards so the lack of G-Sync for me wasn’t an issue.Motion blur wasn’t invisible, but it didn’t distract me from precise aiming. I could dispatch targets with very little wasted ammo. Input lag is low enough that I didn’t perceive it. The MB27ACF is only 40 Hz quicker than an enterprise display but it feels like more than that. A 144 Hz monitor with less precise overdrive would not look this good.Color and contrast were good but after enjoying HDR and wide gamut color on other monitors, the MB27ACF came up a tad short. Warm tones show better than cooler textures which were a bit flat. If you’re trooping around a forest or jungle, the image has more impact than the icy cold environments of Doom Eternal’s first horde map. For casual gaming on the go, there is little to complain about. And the draw of a 27-inch monitor cannot be ignored. Most portables are 15 or 16 inches. The MB27ACF’s extra area more than makes up for the missing HDR and wide gamut.From a usability standpoint, the MB27ACF shines. It’s thin and light and slips easily into a tech pack or large briefcase. I would recommend using a bag or sleeve to protect the screen. That’s one thing Asus left out. However, the fold-out stand is extremely well-engineered, with firm movement. The monitor feels very secure on it thanks to the rubberized bits. I also used the included arm, which clamps down in just a minute. Snapping the panel on creates a solid package with precise adjustment. The locking height movement is convenient. And the Z mount allows for nearly unlimited swivel.The MB27ACF boasts its 2.1-channel sound with subwoofer, and indeed, I heard more bass than what comes from typical integrated speakers. The sound is a bit thin in the midrange, but upper frequencies were clear and precise. When playing on the go, you’ll be using the headphone jack more often, and I appreciate its convenient location on the side.Takeaway: The MB27ACF is a complete package, not just as a portable monitor, but also as a desktop display. Though it lacks HDR and wide gamut color, it games very well and comes with multiple mounting options that are well thought out. It’s thin and light as a portable should be, but the build quality is rugged and befitting its price. It has no real competition at present.MORE: Best Gaming MonitorsMORE: How We Test PC MonitorsMORE: How to Buy a PC MonitorASUS ZenScreen MB27ACF: Price Comparison $449View $449ViewLow Stock $449View $655.78View $1,299ViewWe check over 250 million products every day for the best pricespowered by
1
2
3
4
5
Current page:
Features and Specifications
Next Page
Response, Input Lag, Viewing Angles and Uniformity
TOPICS
Asus
See all comments (1)
Christian EberleSocial Links NavigationContributing EditorChristian Eberle is a Contributing Editor for Tom's Hardware US. He's a veteran reviewer of A/V equipment, specializing in monitors. Christian began his obsession with tech when he built his first PC in 1991, a 286 running DOS 3.0 at a blazing 12MHz. In 2006, he undertook training from the Imaging Science Foundation in video calibration and testing and thus started a passion for precise imaging that persists to this day. He is also a professional musician with a degree from the New England Conservatory as a classical bassoonist which he used to good effect as a performer with the West Point Army Band from 1987 to 2013. He enjoys watching movies and listening to high-end audio in his custom-built home theater and can be seen riding trails near his home on a race-ready ICE VTX recumbent trike. Christian enjoys the endless summer in Florida where he lives with his wife and Chihuahua and plays with orchestras around the state.
Read more
Alienware AW2525HM 25-inch 320 Hz gaming monitor review: Colorful and competition-ready
Asus ROG Strix XG32UCWMG 4K OLED gaming monitor review: Premium high-speed gaming and stunning imagery
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
Titan Army C34A1R 34-inch WQHD 165 Hz gaming monitor review: Ultra-wide, ultra-value
Asus ProArt PA32QCV 32-inch 6K professional monitor review: Plenty of pixels, color, and brightness
Alienware AW3425DW WQHD QD-OLED review: Near-perfect color and premium performance
Latest in Portable Monitors
Aura Triple Aero 15.6 Pro Max portable monitor review: 43 inches of real estate spread across three displays
Save up to 40% on these portable monitors
E-paper hits 75 Hz to better suit productivity tasks
Espresso Displays 15 Pro portable monitor review: Bright and colorful with 4K charm
Dell Pro 14 Plus (P1425) 14-inch portable monitor review: Long on performance, short on value
KYY X90D Triple Portable Monitor Review: A screaming dual-screen bargain at $250
Latest in Reviews
LaCie Rugged SSD4 4TB review: Impressive 40 Gbps speed on Mac and PC
Asus ProArt PA32QCV 32-inch 6K professional monitor review: Plenty of pixels, color, and brightness
Acer Predator Connect T7 mesh router review: Expensive and outclassed
Asus ZenScreen MB27ACF 27-inch monitor review: A slick portable screen with solid gaming performance
Netgear Orbi 370 Wi-Fi 7 mesh router review: Dual-band Wi-Fi 7 hardware finally makes Orbi affordable
Samsung 9100 Pro 8TB SSD review: Bigger, badder, and better
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
Amdlova
Got a old Huawei tablet to use a second desktop screen 10 inch 1920x1200 IPS 60hz for 68$
Works over wi-fi or usb cable... With the small battery 5100mah Can watch for almost 12hr
and the bonus have Harman kardon speakers :)
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.