Tylenol is safe for pregnant women, say Europeans and WHO
: Goats and Soda : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Tylenol is safe for pregnant women, say Europeans and WHO
: Goats and Soda The President says pregnant women should stay away from Tylenol due to possible autism link. World health authorities strongly disagree, say the drug is safe in pregnancy.
Goats and Soda
STORIES OF LIFE IN A CHANGING WORLD
About Us
Contact Us
Infectious Disease
Development
Women & Girls
Coronavirus FAQ
Twitter
Goats and Soda
World health officials reject Trump's claims that Tylenol is linked to autism
September 23, 20252:48 PM ET
By
Jonathan Lambert
Packages of Tylenol are displayed on a shelf at a CVS store on September 22, 2025 in Greenbrae, California. The Trump administration linked use of the painkiller acetaminophen during pregnancy to autism in a White House press conference Monday.
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
Health officials around the globe are rejecting President Trump's assertion that pregnant women should avoid taking acetaminophen, the active ingredient in Tylenol, during pregnancy because of unfounded links to autism. "Available evidence has found no link between the use of paracetamol during pregnancy and autism,"
the European Medicines Agency, Europe's top drug regulator, said in a statement. Paracetamol is a widely used name for acetaminophen outside the U.S. The European drug regulator re-iterated its guidance on Tuesday that drugs with paracetamol should be used as necessary to treat pain and fever, adding that "Paracetamol remains an important option to treat pain or fever in pregnant women."
Sponsor Message
In a White House press conference Monday, President Trump repeatedly pointed to research suggesting exposure to the common painkiller in utero was linked with later diagnoses of autism. World Health Organization spokesperson Tarik Jašarević pushed back against that claim during a press briefing in Geneva. "There were some observational studies that have suggested a possible association between prenatal exposure to acetaminophen, but the evidence remains inconsistent," he said. "Several studies done after that have found no such relationship. So this lack of replicability calls for caution in drawing causal conclusions about the role of acetaminophen in autism." President Trump also suggested on Monday that vaccines and their frequency were responsible for an increase in autism rates.
"They pump so much stuff into those beautiful little babies, it's a disgrace," he said. Jašarević rejected that claim, too.
"We know that vaccines do not cause autism," he said. "Vaccines save countless lives. This is something that science has proven, and these things should not be really questioned." Health officials from several other countries followed suit with their own statements. "Don't pay any attention whatsoever to what Donald Trump says about medicine,"
Wes Streeting, the U.K. health secretary, said in an interview with ITV's Lorraine program. "I've just got to be really clear about this: there is no evidence to link the use of paracetamol by pregnant women to autism in their children. None."
Sponsor Message
Acetaminophen is one of the few options available to pregnant patients seeking treatment for fever and pain.
"Untreated pain and fever can pose risks to the unborn baby,"
Alison Cave, chief safety officer at the MHRA, the U.K.'s top drug regulator, said in a statement. "It is important to manage these symptoms with the recommended treatment." In Australia, that country's chief medical officer and its drug regulator, TGA, wrote in a statement that they "join with other global medicines regulators, leading clinicians and scientists worldwide in rejecting claims regarding the use of paracetamol in pregnancy, and the subsequent risk of development of autism in children." Mónica García Gómez, Spain's health minister, accused President Trump of ignoring medical science. In a post on X, she said "Denialism not only destroys trust in science: it puts lives at risk."
trump
WHO
Tylenol
pregnancy
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor