Digital Grave-Robbing: How AI Is Plundering Online Obituaries - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Cole Kan/CNET
Digital Grave-Robbing: How AI Is Plundering Online Obituaries
The rush to monetize grief leads to the creation of AI obituaries, turning personal loss into clickbait and exposing the dark side of online memorials.
Joe Supan Senior Writer Joe Supan is a senior writer for CNET covering home technology, broadband, and moving. Prior to joining CNET, Joe led MyMove's moving coverage and reported on broadband policy, the digital divide, and privacy issues for the broadband marketplace Allconnect. He has been featured as a guest columnist on Broadband Breakfast, and his work has been referenced by the Los Angeles Times, Forbes, National Geographic, Yahoo! Finance and more.
See full bio
Joe Supan
June 22, 2025
5:00 a.m. PT 20 min read
My sister had only been gone for a few hours and the AI afterlife had already devoured her. Jamie went into the hospital with stomach pain on a Friday last January. By Tuesday morning, she had passed away from an aggressive lymphoma at 36. Later that afternoon, my mom got a text about a suspicious obituary my aunt saw online.  The errors jumped out immediately. Her cause of death was listed as autism. The obituary chronicled a funeral that hadn't happened yet. The loss was described as saddening "the entire music community." In other ways, it was eerily accurate. Jamie did have an optimistic spirit and a dedication to helping others. She was a "particular person," whatever that meant. It alluded constantly to health issues, which the obituary "writer" seemed to think had something to do with autism. Jamie had a stroke when she was 15, which left her with a limp and a speech impediment. Is that what it meant?  It was like looking at Jamie through a funhouse mirror — these core facts about her were so intimate, but they'd been stretched and distorted beyond recognition.  "I was furious," my mom said when I asked her what she remembered about that initial discovery. "We wanted to tell her story. And before we even had a chance to do anything, it's already out there."
This was my introduction to a process that repeats itself every time someone dies and loved ones post about them on social media —
primarily Facebook. Comments are harvested as raw materials for obituaries written by AI, and dozens of bots share links to them back on Facebook.  But it didn't stop there. We Googled Jamie's name to see if anything else was out there, found a handful of similar AI obit pages, as well as several YouTube videos reading fake obituaries with an AI voiceover while a still image of a car accident or a candle loomed ominously. They've since been taken down, but I'll never forget clicking seemingly endless links to AI memorials of Jamie.
In this article:
The obituary spam cycle
My conversation with an obituary pirate
How obituary piracy works
Is it a tribute? Or a scam?
Finding meaning for mourners
How to identify AI obituary spam and what to do if you see it
Human instinctsSomeone dies roughly every 10 seconds in America. In 2024, 1.9 million were cremated, 1 million were buried and 156,000 were donated to science, entombed or removed by the state, according to the National Funeral Directors Association. One survey from the obituary site Beyond the Dash found that 65% of the country wants to have an obituary written about them when they pass.  What the survey didn't say was who they'd like it to be written by. In today's world, it's become commonplace for AI to do the writing. Since ChatGPT burst on the scene in late 2022, people have increasingly been using generative AI to write emails, craft school essays and summarize complex documents. Google makes its Gemini AI tool almost inescapable in Gmail and Google Docs. At this point, 500 million people use ChatGPT alone every week, and 27% of US adults now say they interact with artificial intelligence "almost constantly," according to a Pew Research Center survey. We cook AI-generated recipes and talk to AI therapists. To a murkier degree, we probably even watch AI TV shows, listen to AI songs and read AI articles. And most of all, we use it to write: letters and emails, term papers and blog posts, wedding vows and breakup texts.
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty ImagesNearly three out of every four web pages created in April 2025 contained AI-generated content, according to the web analytics platform Ahrefs. AI obituaries are a small part of a larger ecosystem known as AI slop, a term that refers to useless, misleading and downright weird output from artificial intelligence. It's a big part of our lives in 2025 and —
evidently —
our afterlives, too. Still, the stakes feel uniquely personal when it comes to memorializing a real person. In a cruel twist, the greater the outpouring of grief from humans on social media, the greater the outpouring from AI.  The first days after a death often create a data void where people are searching for information, and families are too overwhelmed and disoriented to provide it. Opportunists, including criminal networks around the world, are more than happy to fill that void. The more a death is being posted about, the more fake obituaries you'll see.  "That's going to drive up the click count," says Robert Wahl, a professor of computer science at Concordia University Wisconsin who's been tracking AI obituaries over the past year. "They're going to get more hits and generate more revenue." AI obituary websites make their money through ads, and because the barrier to entry is so low, a handful of clicks means it's probably worth somebody's time.  But where were these pages coming from? And how were they spreading with such astonishing speed? What is it about grief that leaves us so vulnerable to scammers?  I spent weeks lurking on Facebook, talking to AI experts and tracking down one prolific AI obituary writer to learn more about the elaborate global economy of grief. As that obit pirate explained to me, it's about anything that attracts attention. "I don't base it all on obituaries," he says. "I do accidents, anything crime."
Cole Kan/Getty Images/CNET The obituary spam cycle It's a natural instinct to connect with others when someone dies. For a lot of us, that means posting on social media. "This reaching out is asking others, please see me. Please see this pain. Please see this new void in my life and honor that with me," says Joanne Cacciatore, a professor of social work at Arizona State University and the author of Bearing the Unbearable."When we're going through some of the deepest, hardest things in life, such as grief, online forums can be enormously powerful and connective for people," says Rebecca Soffer, author of The Modern Loss Handbook. "They can help people feel like they're really part of a community and being seen and heard." "Grief is not just about loss, it's about the erosion of control. And these AI obituaries just take another thing from mourners — the ability to choose how and when and by whom their loved one's story is told."
Rebecca Soffer, author of The Modern Loss Handbook
But this unknowingly kicks off a cycle of AI obituary spam. I tracked this dozens of times in the weeks I spent researching this story, and the velocity of the process was breathtaking: a sincere human would share the news on Facebook and within hours, there would be a dozen accounts sharing links to AI obits. Some of these were from accounts like Memorial Farewell (0 followers), while others purported to be real journalists. One, named "Katherine cathy," provided the eerie intro, "News is information about current events. This may be provided through many different media."
The photo of "Katherine cathy" on the Memorial Farewell site was taken from a 2015 New York Times video (right). The woman pictured here was an interview subject, not a journalist. Facebook/New York Times/Getty ImagesWhen I searched the names of people who'd recently passed away on Google with "death" or "obituary," the top results were always to AI obituary sites. (Another CNET editor tells me he's often encountered similar search results.) I could even watch a YouTube version of the obituary, complete with stock photos of candles and police cars —
but only after I sat through an ad for Sling TV.
AI obituary spam dominates Google's search results in the days immediately following someone's death. Google/Getty ImagesThis cycle wears itself out pretty quickly. After a day or two, Google's search results are usually populated with legitimate sites, and the obituary pages and YouTube videos are often nowhere to be found.  "We block billions of spammy pages from appearing in Search every day," a Google spokesperson tells me. "Recent updates to our spam policies have significantly reduced the presence of spammy obituary pages in Search, and many of the examples shared had already been detected and removed by our own systems. On YouTube, we rigorously enforce our policies prohibiting spam, deceptive practices." But by the time they're removed, the damage is often done. Traffic peaks in the hours and days immediately following a person's death. Even as the AI obit sites recede into the background, many readers have already absorbed false information about the deceased person. Many of the sites I visited also employed malicious redirects and fake virus warnings to wring even more revenue from my visit, but most of the time, the scam was more mundane: They just stole my attention for a few seconds.
My conversation with an obituary pirate When I looked up the obituary websites on the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers —
an international nonprofit that acts as an address book for internet domains —
a shocking number of them returned home addresses in Iceland. The country has powerful privacy laws in place and has become a haven for website owners looking to shield their identities.  The mailing address for many of these websites —
including the one that published that initial obituary on Jamie —
is Kalkofnsvegur 2, Reykjavik. This also happens to be the address of the Icelandic Phallological Museum, described on its website as "the world's only genuine penis museum."  "People like to pick that address, in part because it's basically a big F-U to people like you or me who are trying to figure out who's actually behind them," says Jennifer Stromer-Galley, a professor at Syracuse University who studies online interactions.  The velocity of the process was breathtaking: a sincere human would share the news on Facebook and within hours, there would be a dozen accounts sharing links to AI obits. Where these sites are located beyond that is anyone's guess, but most people I spoke with point to countries in Africa and Southeast Asia.  "You need somebody to design the botnet. You need somebody to sort of design the scam," says Walter Scheirer, author of the 2023 book A History of Fake Things on the Internet. "You have to create the accounts trade with the advertising ecosystem that you're trying to play." "There's a longstanding set of criminal networks in Sub-Saharan Africa," Scheirer says. "In other cases, some of these things come from organized crime networks. In some cases, nation-states are running money laundering operations through criminal elements in other countries that they have some loose control over or support in some way." One site that's particularly active on Facebook, obitsfarewell.com, is registered in Abuja, Nigeria. For weeks, no one responded to my repeated emails, phone calls, text messages and Facebook messages.  I eventually found a Facebook page called News Today (416 followers) that posts exclusively links to obitsfarewell.com pages. I messaged the account asking for an interview, and the admin agreed to a call over WhatsApp.
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty ImagesHe identified himself as Harry John and said he'd been running obitsfarewell.com for about six months, which lined up exactly with the registration date on ICANN. He confirmed that he lived in Nigeria and said he also pays one other person to share links to his obituaries on Facebook.  He tells me he chose these topics specifically because he can monetize them for the most ad revenue.  "I use ChatGPT any time I write anything concerning obits," he says. "When I get the news, I use ChatGPT to translate my words, my articles. Once I translate it, I take it to my WordPress and then post it on my Facebook." When I was trying to track down the source of these websites, I messaged dozens of accounts that posted links to AI obits. John told me he was on the other end of several of them.  "You sent three, four messages each on my Facebook," he says. "I'm the one. Same Facebook, same website." John said he couldn't tell me how he decides who to write about, only that he focuses on popular or famous people. I didn't recognize any of the names I saw on his site, but I did notice that the obituary subjects he picked corresponded with high engagement on Facebook. John said that he has a source where he gets his news, but he wouldn't tell me what it was: "You can't expect me to give you my source of income." He insisted that all of his pages go through a fact-checking process on Google and Facebook. "Any obituary news I post, I must double-check everywhere to know that this thing is genuine before I post it on Facebook," he says.  I asked John if he ever felt bad that he might be sharing false information about people who'd died, but he insisted that his content was always accurate.  I thought back to those furious moments when my parents and I read the first AI obituary on Jamie. When I told people that story, they always expressed disbelief. How could people be so morally bankrupt?But once I got on the phone with John, it suddenly felt laughable to think of him as some type of criminal mastermind. He was trying to make a living, just like me.    Before our call ended, he asked me if I'd be interested in working with him. "You get more traffic if someone from the US posts," he explained.
How obituary piracy works It's hard to say exactly when these AI obituaries first began appearing, but they've clearly exploded in the past year.  NewsGuard, a misinformation watchdog that tracks AI content, identified just 49 sites as "unreliable AI-generated news sites" with little human oversight when it started tracking them in May 2023. That number stands at 1,200 today.  "A lot of the sites are specific and focused solely on creating obituaries, whereas others are just basic content farms that publish a range of content," says McKenzie Sadeghi, NewsGuard's AI and Foreign Influence editor.  I found more than 20 websites publishing AI obituaries while researching this story, but I got the sense that the true number was much higher —
and impossible to definitively capture. They seemed to come and go in rapid succession. One day I'd see one on a domain like deltademocrattimes.space; the next day it would redirect to a page of cascading popups that crashed my browser. "Platforms will not do anything unless required to. ... Choose your favorite social media platform —
they've actually reduced or cut entirely their trust safety teams."
Ben Colman, Reality Defender CEO
Joshua Braun, an associate professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst who studies profit-driven hoaxes, tells me that the goal for spam sites isn't just to get eyes on ads — it's also to camouflage bot traffic that's used to drive up page views.  "When it comes to taking in ad revenue, drawing real visitors is part of the game, but a lot of it is also pumping in fake traffic," he says. "Drawing enough human visitors would throw off the detection mechanisms that might otherwise take note of all the automated traffic." Sometimes, the people being memorialized aren't even real. Scheirer tells me he first became aware of AI obituaries a couple years ago when he began seeing classmates he didn't recognize on a page for alumni from his high school. "I noticed through all these announcements for people who had died, none of whom I've ever heard of," he says. "There were so many, it was obvious that this was not human-generated content." What surprised me about the majority of these AI obits was how obviously fake they seemed. They often had the look of an illicit live sports streaming site, and it was pretty much guaranteed that you'd have to navigate a cascade of popups on each one. Once you got past those, there was rarely a human author attached to any of the pages —
in Jamie's case, the byline was a first name only: Ritesh —
and the writing flattened the deceased into a one-size-fits-all angel. References to kindness, loved ones and cherished memories abound but little that distinguishes them as an actual person.
AI-generated obituaries rely on vague language that reveals little about the deceased. When the AI obits do offer details, they're often blatantly false, like Jamie's purported autism as cause of death. To quote my mom again, "Any intelligent person would look at this and say, 'This is totally not true.'" They didn't seem to be all that successful at it, either. The vast majority of the obituary bot posts on Facebook had no engagement and only a handful of followers. Occasionally they would make their way to bigger accounts, like 24/7 USA News (1.2K followers), but most of the time they seemed to be spamming into the void. And that doesn't really matter.  "Because you're doing it at scale, especially because it's automated, you're gonna make some money that way," Scheirer says. "Even if one person visits it, two people visit it."All these things are variations on a theme in scamming. Can you draw attention to something that is not real, that can be monetized?" A few seconds of your attention is worth something. That's enough time to catch a glimpse of an ad out of the corner of your eye or even sit through a five-second commercial on YouTube.  These aren't enormous sums of money —
one expert I spoke with estimated the scale at "pennies per page view" —
but because the process is largely automated with the help of AI tools, obituary creators are able to cast an incredibly wide net.  "Advertisers who are pumping the money into the system don't have any real accountability for where those ads are appearing," Braun says. "It's going through two, three, five intermediaries to place the ad." In a cruel twist, the greater the outpouring of grief from humans on social media, the greater the outpouring from AI.  Ben Colman, CEO of the AI detection company Reality Defender, said the morass of AI slop isn't just going unchecked by social media companies —
it's "passively encouraged" by them. "Buying and selling attention often means anything that attracts attention supports CPC- or CPM-based revenue," he says, referring to cost per click or cost per thousand, a metric where an advertiser pays a certain amount of money for every 1,000 impressions an ad receives."The presumption is there's a business reason why they're keeping it, not a lack of technical ability," Colman says. Facebook's Community Standards prohibit "fake accounts, fraud, and coordinated inauthentic behavior," but the company also admitted that the problem is rampant. In a blog post published on April 24 detailing how it planned to crack down on spammy content, Facebook said it took down 100 million fake Pages last year that were "engaging in scripted follows abuse," which refers to artificially inflated engagement tactics like fake likes or comments.  "We are aware of the proliferation of spam in general," a representative from Meta, Facebook's parent company, told me. "We're doing a number of things to curb this behavior, many of which can be found in our Transparency Center, specifically here on Account Integrity." Still, it was not hard for me to find as many fake obituary accounts as I wanted to. The more difficult task seemed to be not finding them.
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty ImagesAs fast as the AI tools have proliferated, social media companies and search engines have largely been left to police content on their platforms themselves. CNET's Katelyn Chedraoui, who writes extensively about AI, lays out a convincing case for the need for AI labels here, but the experts I spoke with said that won't be the norm unless the federal government mandates it.  Congress has never been able to pass any meaningful legislation reining in content on social media companies, and the Supreme Court punted on the issue last year. The free speech vs. content moderation pendulum has generally swung with the president, and social media companies are now relying more on users to add context themselves through Community Notes features.    "Platforms will not do anything unless required to," says Colman. "Looking at —
choose your favorite social media platform —
they've actually reduced or cut entirely their trust safety teams." "Moderating everything with a light touch seems to be where social media is trying to crawl back to," Braun says. "Advertisers could potentially demand more accountability. But again, when we're talking about ads that run off site, that's a different story." Some AI chatbots have attempted to cut the AI obituary scam off at the source. Wahl tells me he tried to have an obituary written about himself as a test using three popular AI tools: Claude, ChatGPT and Copilot. All three of them refused to do it.  "Basically, what these companies have done is they've put in some guardrails in place to help protect against this, because I think it's been enough of a problem," he says. "They refused to generate an obituary for me because they couldn't find any other examples out there." OpenAI and Anthropic did not respond to my requests for comment for this story.
Is it a tribute? Or a scam? Obituary scams take many different forms, some of which stretch the definition of "scam." What if you open your wallet to "light a candle" on an obituary page and the family never even knows it exists? What about if the only thing that's stolen is your attention for some ad revenue? "I would still characterize that as a scam," says Scheirer. "It's clearly siphoning money out of the advertising world in an unethical way. This is not a legitimate thing." But there are varying degrees of truthfulness, like when obituary pirates deliberately target living people for their name recognition. Elijah Dittersdorf is the founder of Mom's Computer, an LA tech shop that helps seniors navigate scams. He told me he first started seeing obituary scams pop up in 2019, before generative AI tools were available. At the time, these were mostly focused on people who had some name recognition.  "It's no different than a kid finding a good spot on the corner for a lemonade stand. Oh my God! People stop here, there's actually a place to park," he says.
Facebook/Getty ImagesYou might even wake up to find an obituary about yourself, as the Los Angeles Times writer Deborah Vankin experienced last year.  Sometimes, it's not clear where the money you give to a website will end up. Echovita is a Canada-based company that "centralizes and aggregates publicly available obituaries," according to its website. According to the CBC, the Bereavement Authority of Ontario published two separate notices about Echovita after receiving 11 complaints from people who were "deeply upset" about their loved ones' obituaries appearing on the site.  Paco Leclerc, the president of Echovita, was ordered to pay $20 million in damages to grieving families after his previous website, Afterlife, was found to have repeatedly violated copyright rules by using data to market flower sales.  I looked up Jamie's name on Echovita and sure enough, there was a dry, templated version of her life. But there were also options to "give a memorial tree" or "light a candle" for Jamie. I opted to light a candle.  I could choose three options: Eternity ($25), one year ($15) or one month ($8). I went with one month. (I can hear Jamie laughing at this.) What followed was a generic prompt to share the contribution on Facebook, Twitter (now known as X) or email. I asked Echovita where that money goes, and a representative told me they put aside 50% for the family. This can be claimed by enrolling in its "Solidarity Program," which requires that you submit documentation like a death certificate or attestation from the funeral home.  "It's important to clarify that Echovita does not receive donations," an Echovita representative told CNET. "There's sometimes confusion around this because users can purchase virtual candles, memorial trees or send flowers, but these are optional tribute purchases, not donations."
Facebook/Getty Images"We allocate a portion of our proceeds from flower orders and virtual candle purchases to the Solidarity Program," they said. Echovita wouldn't tell me how much money is passed on to families.
Was Echovita a scam? Probably not technically. But a corporation accepting money that most families will never be aware of struck me as much more callous than a man in Nigeria pumping out obits with ChatGPT for $100 a week.  Scheirer also tells me he's seen scammers target commenters on obituary posts from legitimate sources like funeral homes.  "When there's open comments, you often find a ton of spam and automatically generated content," he says. "Essentially, there's a link, like, 'Could you donate to this fund?'" Once Scheirer pointed this out to me, I began noticing it everywhere. These were usually completely junky links where the only connection was the word "obituary" in the URL, and they almost always led to a video player with some version of "Live: Obituary and Funeral" at the top.  These would always appear within minutes after someone posted about a loss. It was as clockwork as the genuine outpouring of love and support.  I began to feel like an obituary pirate myself, searching Facebook for terms like "passed away" in the hopes of catching the scammers in the act before it was flagged. Or, even more uncomfortably, parachuting into this place of loss to extract some personal benefit.  Nikolas Guggenberger, a law professor at the University of Houston, tells me that the deceased generally have fewer rights than a living person when it comes to privacy and defamation laws.
Spam links leading to "live streaming" of funeral services proliferated in Facebook comments Cole Kan/CNET/Getty Images"You have a very easy defamation case if it's false information about the family that's still alive," he says. "It becomes a little harder when you want to build a defamation claim based on a defamation of the deceased themselves."
Finding meaning for mourners Like grief in general, no two experiences of AI obituaries are exactly the same. While my mom was "furious," my dad recalled feeling irritated, but it was far down on the list of things he was thinking about.  "At the moment, I was numb," he says. "I didn't dwell on it just because I wasn't part of that. I'm not much online."  Both of these reactions felt true to me. There were much bigger things going on that day, but it also felt incredibly violating to read these inaccuracies hours after such a seismic event. "In the early days of grief, everything feels disorienting. You're trying to make sense of a world that no longer contains someone you love," says Soffer, the Modern Loss Handbook author.
Cole Kan/CNET/Getty ImagesThe body takes on a heavy load in the days after a loved one dies. Early stages of bereavement have been associated with increased heart rate, higher blood pressure and elevated cortisol levels.  "Grief is not just about loss, it's about the erosion of control. And these AI obituaries just take another thing from mourners —
the ability to choose how and when and by whom their loved one's story is told," Soffer says.  But others contend that AI tools have actually been a positive introduction to the mourning process. Allyse R. Worland, a funeral director in Indiana, says AI obituary spam has been a "rare occurrence", and she's mostly heard good things about the tools.   "I've seen it as a positive," she tells me. "Families feel like that's one less thing on their plate. They feel empowered. Because a lot of the families that I meet, they are completely stressed out." That made sense to me. I was in charge of writing Jamie's obituary, and I do remember feeling stressed about the prospect. But I also remember sitting around with my family trying to find the perfect word for Jamie's laugh. (We ended up going with "hee-haw snort.") I couldn't help but think AI would have robbed us of that experience.  "You have a very easy defamation case if it's false information about the family that's still alive. It becomes a little harder when you want to build a defamation claim based on a defamation of the deceased themselves."
Nikolas Guggenberger, University of Houston law professor
Becky Robison, a writer and death educator who's published a guide to writing obituaries, describes the process as cathartic. "For me, putting together my parents' obituaries was very emotionally meaningful," she says. "Let me celebrate both of my parents who I've lost too soon. Let me tell people why I love them.  "It won't solve your grief, but I think it can be a really meaningful way to work through some of that grief."
How to identify AI obituary spam, and what to do if you see it I would approach any obituary you see on social media or Google with extreme skepticism. Here are some common red flags to look out for before clicking a link:    Consider the source: Most of the AI obits I saw were distributed by bot accounts that exclusively posted links to obituary sites. If that's the case, it's a near certainty that the obituary has no connection to the deceased.Check the time: If you see the link to an obituary within 24 hours after someone passes, it probably didn't come from the family. Obituaries are generally published within a week of the death and rarely within the first day or two. Examine the URL: Unless it's posted on the website of a local funeral home, newspaper or Legacy.com, I would be inclined to write off an obituary as AI-generated with no input from the loved ones of the deceased. Another giveaway is that the URL has "HTTP" and not "HTTPS" at the beginning, which indicates that the data sent between your computer and the website is not encrypted.Look for specifics: AI obits are usually quite vague and rely on generalizations like "cherished member of the community" or "kind heart."  If you do identify a fake obituary about someone you know, these are some steps you can take to have them taken down:  Report the post on Facebook or YouTube citing spam or false information.If you find the page in Google's search results, report it as a spammy, deceptive or low quality webpage. Report the page to the Internet Crime Complaint Center. If the scam involves identity theft, you can report it to the Federal Trade Commission.Once it's published, share the legitimate obituary on social media and ask loved ones to look out for misinformation.Representatives for the Federal Trade Commission and Federal Communications Commission declined my request for a comment for this article.
Human instincts Rereading that first AI obituary we were sent, I'm oddly touched by this machine portrait. I love the photo it chose for the header: Jamie proudly holding up a $20 bill with a Corona nearby. She looks beautiful. I have no idea what the context is.  I still feel some far-off echoes of anger when I see the headline about Jamie's supposed autism cause of death, but it seems a little like getting mad at my refrigerator. It's likely that in the near future, AI obituaries will improve so much that I wouldn't be able to tell the real from the fake. I'm not sure if that will feel better or worse.  "She was more than just a conglomeration of data. She was a real person," my mom says, reflecting on her initial outrage.  After spending so much time reading Facebook posts from the newly grieving, I couldn't help but feel that there was something irreplaceably human about that instinct to reach out for connection in the most disorienting moments. Maybe the instinct to monetize it is too.  Visual Designer | Cole KanArt Director | Jeff HazelwoodCreative Director | Viva TungVideo Presenter | Owen PooleVideo Editor | JD ChristisonProject Manager | Danielle RamirezEditors | Katie Collins, Corinne ReichertDirector of Content | Jonathan Skillings
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.