Reprints & Permissions | Nature Portfolio
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
nature
nature portfolio
reprints & permissions
Reprints & Permissions
Reprints & Permissions
Author reprints
Commercial reprints
Permissions requests
Other services
Frequently asked questions
Contact details
Reprints & Permissions
Springer Nature offers a range of reprints and permissions services for authors, readers, writers and commercial entities.
Author reprints
Published authors in any Nature Portfolio journal can order reprints of their article for distribution to their peers and colleagues. Author reprints are offered in quantities ranging up to 300 copies. Authors can order reprints in print or as an E-Print (encrypted PDF), and can place an order either before or after publication of their paper.
Commercial reprints
Commercial reprints are an excellent way for companies to promote and inform the medical community about their activities and products. They are recognized as a credible and timely source of information, and the Nature Portfolio contains some of the most highly cited and influential journals in the world.
Permission requests
Springer Nature grants permission for authors, readers and third parties to reproduce material from its journals, books and online products as part of another publication or entity. This includes, for example, the use of a figure in a presentation, the posting of an abstract on a web site, or the reproduction of a full article within another journal. Certain permissions can be granted free of charge; others incur a fee.
Other services
Details of how to order single issues of Nature Portfolio journals, posters and plaques of covers and articles from recent issues of selected journals, or translated reprints.
Frequently asked questions
If you are unsure of the service you require please go to frequently asked questions.
Contact details
For more information or to order.
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature Portfolio
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited