Zoom CEO: Best Tips for Running a Video Meeting | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
'Don't Be Too Nice': Here's How to Run the Perfect Video Call, According to Zoom's CEO
Even the CEO of Zoom thinks video meetings can be improved.
By
Erin Davis
Sep 17, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Eric Yuan founded Zoom in 2011 and serves as the company's CEO.
Yuan said the No. 1 thing that makes a Zoom meeting successful is preparation.
Here's how Yuan keeps his Zoom calls productive.
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan founded the video communications company in 2011 when he was 41 years old and took it public in 2019. As of September 2025, Zoom had a market cap of $25.66 billion.But despite 15 years of daily practice, he still thinks video calls can be better, because the best meetings are when people "can be themselves," he told The New York Times.Here's Yuan's advice for making your Zoom calls more productive.Be accessibleYuan says that he has a Zoom meeting link in his email signature so that people can set up calls with him.Related: 13 Leadership Lessons from Zoom Founder and CEO Eric YuanPreparation is keyWho you invite is as important as why you're calling the meeting, Yuan said."Number one, you need to prepare: who to invite, who not to invite, and a very clear agenda," Yuan said, per The Times.Think about the vibesYuan said the second most important thing for a productive meeting is to make sure everyone can be themselves."Don't be too nice, too polite," Yuan said. "In a Zoom call, people tend to be so nice. It's becoming too formal. It's OK to interrupt a little bit. And after the meeting, you need to have some follow-up."How to exit a callDon't be afraid to use the chat."Sometimes I just send a channel message: 'Sorry, I got to do something.' I use the chat a lot before I leave," Yuan said.Related: Zoom CEO Eric Yuan Cuts His Own Pay By 98% Amid Layoffs
Zoom CEO Eric Yuan founded the video communications company in 2011 when he was 41 years old and took it public in 2019. As of September 2025, Zoom had a market cap of $25.66 billion.But despite 15 years of daily practice, he still thinks video calls can be better, because the best meetings are when people "can be themselves," he told The New York Times.Here's Yuan's advice for making your Zoom calls more productive.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Erin Davis
Entrepreneur Staff
Trending News Writer
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
Taylor Swift and Amazon Share This 'Destructive' Superpower That Drives Serious Success, Says Former Harvard Business School Strategist
'Most Powerful Yet': Apple Just Revealed the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and AirPods With Live Translation. Here's What to Know.
I Own a Professional Rugby Team — Here Are the 5 Biggest Lessons It's Taught Me About Business Leadership
This Mom's Garage Side Hustle for Kids Became a Business With $1 Billion Revenue
Franchisors Have a Secret Weapon Against Rising Costs. Here's How It Works.
This 29-Year-Old's Business Helps Young People Without Work Experience Earn Tens of Thousands and Launch Their Careers: 'You're Not Just Your Major'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Buying / Investing in Business
Big Investors Are Betting on This 'Unlisted' Stock
You can join them as an early-stage investor as this company disrupts a $1.3T market.
By
StackCommerce
Buying / Investing in Business
From a $120M Acquisition to a $1.3T Market
Co-ownership is creating big opportunities for entrepreneurs.
By
StackCommerce
Business News
The Federal Reserve Cut Interest Rates For the First Time This Year. Here's What It Means For Credit Cards and Mortgage Rates.
Officials indicated there could be two more cuts before the end of the year.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Business Plans
How to Create a 1-Word Business Plan That Cuts Through Complexity and Drives Results
Entrepreneurs can replace complexity with a one-word business plan — a simple, powerful theme that aligns their vision, motivates their team and drives results all year long.
By
Nicholas Leighton
Side Hustle
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
Seth Goldstein, 29, and his friend Steven Rofrano got their business idea after a snack break in Miami.
By
Amanda Breen
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC