Top 20 Best PC Games - July 2025 | CNET - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechGaming PC Gaming
The 20 Best PC Games Right Now
Put your gaming computer to the test with the best PC games out right now, including AAA hits like Elden Ring and Black Myth: Wukong as well as indie darlings.
Tyler Graham Writer Tyler is a writer under CNET's home energy and utilities category. He came to CNET straight out of college, where he graduated from Seton Hall with a bachelor's degree in journalism. For the past seven months, Tyler has attended a White House press conference, participated in energy product testing at CNET's testing labs in Louisville, Kentucky, and written one of CNET Energy's top-performing news articles, on federal solar policy. Not bad for a newbie.
When Tyler's not asking questions or doing research for his next assignment, you can find him in his home state of New Jersey, kicking back with a bagel and watching an action flick or playing a new video game.
You can reach him at tgraham@cnet.com. Expertise Community solar, state solar policy, solar cost and accessibility, renewable energy, electric vehicles, video games, home internet for gaming.
See full bio
Ajay Kumar Editor Ajay has worked in tech journalism for over a decade as a reporter, analyst, product reviewer, and editor. He got his start in consumer tech, breaking Android news at Newsweek before going to PCMag, where he reviewed hundreds of smartphones, battery packs, and chargers as a Mobile Analyst. He also worked at Lifewire, a Dotdash Meredith brand, as a Tech Commerce Editor, putting together tested best-of lists and assigning product reviews across categories including smart home, uninterruptible power supplies, generators, and automotive tech.
Most recently, he was Section Editor, Mobile at Digital Trends, spearheading his team's coverage of breaking news, features, reviews, roundups, deals, and more across a variety of mobile products, including phones, wearables, VR headsets, batteries, and chargers. If you want Ajay's advice about anything tech, especially solar panels, UPS, batteries, EVs, and charging technology, you can reach him at ajkumar@cnet.com. Expertise 13+ years of experience in consumer product reviews, buying guides, best lists, and tech news across a variety of tech categories. As a homeowner, Ajay is also familiar with the unique electrical issues that can crop up in a prewar apartment building.
See full bio
Tyler Graham
,
Ajay Kumar
July 18, 2025
12:42 p.m. PT 21 min read
Larian Studios
PC gaming gives you the best of most worlds. With a decent budget and some gumption, you can build a solid desktop rig -- or you can invest in one of CNET's best gaming PCs and gain access to a wide world of PC exclusives, indie games and even some titles that were previously exclusive to Sony's PlayStation and Microsoft's Xbox.There's a truly unlimited amount of tags, store queues and interactive recommendations to browse through, and it can get overwhelming trying to find the next best metroidvania, boomer shooter, collectathon or whatever your cup of tea is. PC gamers aren't lacking for choice.In fact, between Steam, the Epic Games Store, Game Pass and more, there are thousands upon thousands of games to choose from. One of the biggest issues you can run into with a massive backlog is choice paralysis. Just which are the best PC games out there?We're here to help. To narrow your game choices, CNET curated this list of the best PC games you can play right now.Read more: Best Gaming PC Deals Right NowTL;DR? These are the 20 best PC games for July 2025BalatroWarframeBaldur's Gate 3Overwatch 2ValorantDisco Elysium: The Final CutElden RingCassette BeastsDread DelusionCelesteTotal War: PharaohStardew ValleyLunacidBlack Myth: WukongNeon WhiteHelldivers 2Risk of Rain 2Soulstone SurvivorsTerrariaHaste
LocalThunk
Balatro
CNET's Game of the Year for 2024, Balatro is one of those simple, addictive games that keeps you coming back for more. Inspired by poker, it's a deck-building roguelike that's easy to pick up and play on the Steam Deck. That was actually the key selling point of Balatro for many of my friends, who said that it kept them entertained for hours while waiting in the hospital for their spouse to give birth or watching the kids at home. Notably, you don't need to be a poker player to play or understand the game. Balatro essentially teaches itself to you as you play and no two runs are exactly the same. It's really about finding out the card synergies and trying out different combinations, so you can see why it's addictive. Best of all, Balatro has no real system requirements, taking up just 150MB of storage. You can play it on just about anything short of a potato.Release Date: Feb. 20, 2024Genre: Addictive roguelike poker deck builderDeveloper: LocalThunk- Ajay Kumar
See at Steam
Digital Extremes
Warframe
Warframe is a free-to-play MMO in which, as a robot space ninja, you slice, dice and blast your enemies apart as you cut a swath across the solar system. It's also a game where you can kick back and do some fishing.Yes, over a decade after its launch and many expansions later, Warframe is the video game equivalent of an "everything but the kitchen sink" soup, pulling together dozens of disparate ideas and activities. And against all odds, it's one of the best free-to-play games out there right now.In my own time with Warframe, I've uncovered the secret origin of the player character, resolved a spacetime paradox, captained my own spaceship and ended a war several millennia in the making. The storylines are fantastic fodder for space opera fans.I've also scanned plant life, mined for gems and ore, tranquilized and tagged endangered animals, decorated my own living quarters and played space Flappy Bird. Warframe is a power fantasy that lets you cut down dozens of enemies in mere seconds, but you can also pet your dog.You'll never run out of things to do in Warframe -- and you'll never be forced to spend a single cent to experience all of the content on offer.Release Date: March 25, 2013Genre: Robot ninja looter-shooter MMODeveloper: Digital Extremes- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Larian Studios
Baldur's Gate 3
It shouldn't surprise you to see the lengthy fantasy RPG Baldur's Gate 3 on this list. CNET loved the game when we reviewed it on the Steam Deck and the game got rave reviews when it was first released. The game's creator Larian Studios was also responsible for PC RPG hits like Divinity Original Sin and its sequel -- award-winning games that paved the way for Larian to tackle the biggest game it's ever made. Set in the Dungeons & Dragons universe, the party-based RPG takes you across the Forgotten Realms, a diverse world filled with quests, characters and enemies. Combat is similar to other Larian titles, with turn-based team battles and a wide array of skills, powers and fighting abilities. Even if you aren't a D&D veteran, there's plenty to do, see and explore across three massive acts that bring you from the shores of a distant beach to the big bad's tower at the end. Combat aside, a huge chunk of your time will be spent on quest and dialogue options and managing your party. Each character has their own moral compass, meaning they're not simply a silent companion that goes along with whatever you as the party leader want -- you'll talk with and learn from everyone you encounter, and if you aren't careful, disagreements can lead maligned allies to abandon you. As with Disco Elysium (below), this is a game where your choices matter and make a difference to the outcome of the story -- but trust us when we say that this is one of the most epic adventures in gaming. Release Date: Aug. 3, 2023Genre: Dungeons & Dragons virtual tabletop RPGDeveloper: Larian Studios- Ajay Kumar
See at Steam
Blizzard Entertainment
Overwatch 2
It's been nearly a decade since Overwatch stole our hearts and defined the hero shooter genre. And while the world could always use more heroes, no competitor has firmly stepped up to dethrone Overwatch 2 when it comes to producing inventive character designs, creating satisfying team synergies and priming hectic moment-to-moment gameplay. (Although the new Marvel Rivals is hot on Overwatch 2's heels.)The sequel's five-versus-five format speeds up games and encourages more aggressive fights, and some of the best new additions to the roster have been designed around the quickened tempo. My personal favorite Overwatch 2 characters include a wasteland warrior who heals herself by slashing enemies and an archaeologist who uses their drill to infiltrate the enemy team from below the battlefield.There's never a bad time to jump into Overwatch, as every other seasonal content update ships with a new hero. The newest addition to the roster, Hazard, is a tank who can mantle up walls and dive in on his foes.With over 40 heroes spread across the tank, damage and support roles, you'll certainly find a play style that clicks with you.Release Date: Aug. 10, 2023Genre: Team-based hero shooter with a colorful cast of charactersDeveloper: Blizzard Entertainment- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Riot Games
Valorant
If you gravitate toward competitive games, Valorant is one of the most pedigreed esports you could jump into. It's a spiritual successor to tactical shooters like Counter-Strike and hero shooters such as Overwatch and Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege, a dynamic combination that makes it stand out in the genre, especially with its competitive play.Like most hero shooters, Valorant has characters that cater to many different styles of play, allowing you to bring your own form of utility to the team. I prefer agents like Sova or Fade who can reveal enemies to the team, but players who enjoy faster-paced competitive games might prefer an agent like Iso, who is able to force one-on-one duels.There's a lot of planning and strategy that goes into deciding how teams want to play each round, and those plans might have to change on the fly depending on how the previous round played out. Good aim is heavily rewarded, but so is careful positioning and your ability to outthink your opponent.Valorant is one of the most dynamic shooters out right now, and you can pick up and play the game with any agent you want on PC right now.Release Date: June 2, 2020Genre: Tactical hero shooter with an emphasis on competitionDeveloper: Riot Games- Tyler Graham
See at Riot Games
ZA/UM
Disco Elysium: The Final Cut
What if you were a cop but also a dumpster-diving hobo? You no longer need to ponder this question with Disco Elysium. This story and dialogue-driven RPG lets you be both. It's probably the hardest I've ever laughed playing a game.There's no character customization to speak of, but as you go through the game, you can pick skills and "archetypes," like Thinker, Sensitive and Physical, to develop your version of the player character's scumbag cop. There are 24 skills in the game: some fascinating, some plain weird and some hilarious. One of my favorites is Inland Empire, which can make your playthrough wacky, by encouraging you to follow supernatural threads, and Savoir Faire, which makes you a cool, fast-talking super cop. Personally, I don't think what you pick really matters and I encourage you to try all three archetypes to get the full range of dialogue options and choices. Disco Elysium is funny, often bizarre, deeply political and intensely philosophical. It's by far one of the best and most memorable games I've played over the past several years.Release Date: Oct. 15, 2019Genre: Philosophical, political, irreverently funny point-and-click RPGDeveloper: ZA/UM - Ajay Kumar
See at Steam
FromSoftware
Elden Ring
Odds are good that you've gallivanted across the Lands Between at least once before. At least 25 million gamers have. But if you haven't played Elden Ring on PC, you're missing out on the definitive experience (and a completely new way to play the game).This is FromSoftware's most expansive RPG to date, featuring some of the hardest bosses the studio has ever created. Secrets lurk around nearly every corner, and it feels truly awesome to be whisked away by a mimic chest, to encounter a boss that only strikes at a certain time of day or to find a whole new underground layer to the world. What a world it is, with so many different lands to explore and difficult bosses to tackle, you'll easily put a hundred hours into the game exploring its deep depths and high peaks.More importantly, it's never been easier to download the Seamless Co-op mod, which makes Elden Ring feel like an entirely different experience. Being able to explore the entirety of the Lands Between and the Land of Shadow with a friend definitely makes the game less difficult, but there's something special about finding new treasures and secret evergaols when you're on an expedition with someone else.Having played through Elden Ring solo and with my friend, I can tell you that it's like playing two different games. Get Elden Ring on PC, get the Seamless Co-op mod and relive that joy and wonder of discovering the Lands Between for the first time all over again. Then get ready, because the Shadow of the Erdtree DLC offers a whole new world to conquer thereafter. There's even another co-op spinoff, Elden Ring Nightreign, coming in 2025. Release Date: Feb. 25, 2022Genre: Epic open-world soulslike adventureDeveloper: FromSoftware- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Bytten Studio
Cassette Beasts
As a lifelong fan of turn-based monster-taming games, there's a looming question any time I try a new one: Is this providing some experience that Pokemon can't? Cassette Beasts' resounding answer is "yes."The combination of a tight combat system, a colorful cast of anachronistic characters and a compelling mystery narrative is enough to carry players through the base game.Cassette Beasts also offers a more robust postgame experience than Pokemon has in over a decade -- shiny hunting (or "bootleg hunting") is legitimately engaging, as players need to defeat souped-up fusion monsters to break them down into their base forms.Rematches with buffed-up base game bosses and a new secret location also ensure that there's a challenging content loop that lasts far beyond the final boss. As a monster-catching aficionado, Cassette Beasts impressed me in a way that Pokemon hasn't been able to in years.Release Date: April 26, 2023Genre: Turn-based monster battler with a musical twistDeveloper: Bytten Studio- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Lovely Hellplace
Dread Delusion
Frequently referred to as a real-time RPG in the spirit of yesteryear's Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind, Dread Delusion is one of the best fantasy games released in recent years. You play a recently released prisoner -- but your new lease on life hinges on the completion of a dangerous quest for the Apostatic Union, a ruling group of dogmatic rationalists who are trying to stamp out the worship of folk gods once and for all.To that end, you're sent to an alien-feeling backwater, a floating archipelago rife with cults, monsters and eldritch gods. The Oneiric Isles are a disorienting setting, full of megaflora and broken ruins. Approaching them requires class specialization, but you get to decide what that looks like. I chose to put my skill points into stealth and lockpicking, allowing me to bypass most combat and break into secret areas, but you might choose to brute force your way through encounters or master the arcane arts.Dread Delusion feels like a true successor to older exploratory RPGs. You're not going to be able to see everything this game has to offer in one play-through, and that's by design -- the way you build your character will largely decide the locations, quests and monsters you'll see. At the same time, much of the baggage from the genre has been left behind, leaving a smooth hack-and-slash (or spell-slinging) gameplay experience.This is a game that doesn't just pay homage to old RPGs, but recreates the experience in a package that's more palatable for modern audiences.Release Date: May 14, 2024Genre: Open-world immersive dark fantasy RPGDeveloper: Lovely Hellplace- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Maddy Makes Games
Celeste
Every once in a while, when I'm feeling burnt out, I climb Celeste Mountain. A lot of players will connect with Celeste's protagonist, Maddie, who embarks on her journey to conquer her anxiety and discover her own place in the world.Celeste is a tough but fair platforming game that forces you to hone your skills to make any progress. I've seen it compared to Super Meat Boy in terms of difficulty, which is a pretty fair assessment.You start with barebones mechanics like jumping, dashing and wall climbing -- your platforming meat and potatoes. As you progress up the mountain, you'll need to learn how to reset your dash in midair or leap from wall to wall, sometimes having to chain these moves together multiple times before touching the ground.Even when you conquer the mountain, there's a ton of content to double back on and finish up, including hundreds of collectibles and "B-sides" to each level that make them much harder to complete.Repeating the journey to the top is a challenging task, but mastering the mountain can be quite calming. Celeste is a labor of personal introspection, interweaving precise platforming trials with a story about identity and self-worth. Innovative mechanics and a touching narrative make the game a must-play platformer.Release Date: Jan. 25, 2018Genre: Precision platformer with emotional narrativeDeveloper: Maddy Makes Games- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Creative Assembly
Total War: Pharaoh
It's been a while since Creative Assembly released a pure historical Total War game. There was Three Kingdoms a few years back, followed by Troy, a Saga game. Both had significant mythological elements with superpowered single-unit generals, fantasy units like tamed tigers and minotaurs, and historical modes that were an afterthought at best. It wasn't much for history fans to chew on. That's changed with Total War: Pharaoh. Set during the chaos of the Bronze Age collapse, Pharaoh was released to mixed reviews due to its small scope, with the map featuring just Egypt, Canaan and parts of Anatolia. A massive free update has brought huge improvements to the game. The map is expanded to include all of classical Mesopotamia, Anatolia and Greece, and there are dozens of new factions, including Babylon, Assyria, Elam, Uratu, the Sea People, Troy and more. The gameplay mechanics are well refined, with distinct kingship and government mechanics based on the region you're playing in, improved diplomacy and trade resources that really matter. As with other games in the series, Pharaoh is a sandbox, allowing you to build your kingdom as you see fit, whether that means pillaging and burning across the world as the nomadic Sea People or preserving civilization from collapse as Babylon or the Hittites. As someone with over 3,000 hours spread across various Total War games, I feel comfortable saying Total War: Pharaoh is not just one of the best Total War games in recent years, it's one of the best strategy games, period.Release Date: Oct. 11, 2023Genre: Historical real time strategyDeveloper: Creative Assembly- Ajay Kumar
See at Steam
Concerned Ape
Stardew Valley
In many ways, Stardew Valley revitalized public interest in cozy farming sims. It's a spiritual successor to Harvest Moon and Animal Crossing, and is in many ways designed to be the same type of "forever game."There are seemingly endless ways to optimize your farm, fishing and mining strategies -- in fact, the game can be a little bit overwhelming for a beginner. After you get over that initial barrier to entry, time falls away as you meet the townspeople, take part in the town's events and restore the local community center to its former glory.Stardew Valley becomes a comfortable home-away-from-home; an electronic facsimile of life outside of the suburban humdrum that lets you escape the real world for a while. With co-op, you can even bring your partner or some friends along for the ride -- the quaint coastal town of Stardew Valley is approachable for just about any type of gamer.Release Date: Feb. 26, 2016Genre: Cozy Harvest Moon-inspired farming simDeveloper: ConcernedApe- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Kira LLC
Lunacid
PC players have the unique chance to play one of the greatest love letters to FromSoftware's original game design.Lunacid adapts many of the gameplay mechanics of King's Field while echoing some of the gothic visuals and Lovecraftian story beats from Bloodborne. Your goal is to venture to the furthest depths of the Great Well and wake the eldritch Sleeper. That doesn't mean the game doesn't have anything new to offer.You'll constantly be on your toes while exploring the world carved out within the well, finding a dream-like patchwork of dangerous places. Standout locales include a decadent vampire castle perched atop a blood lake, a sprawling library full of sentient tomes and a cultish serpent temple chock-full of lizard men.There are hidden items around every corner for the most adventurous players to find, and it'll take quite a bit of exploration to put together the pieces to see the four separate endings. If this game sinks its hooks in you, you'll no doubt be attempting to solve the true ending of Lunacid -- and discovering the secret of the Sleeper.Release Date: Oct. 30, 2023Genre: King's Field-like dark fantasy adventureDeveloper: Kira- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Game Science
Black Myth: Wukong
The action-adventure game Black Myth: Wukong takes its inspiration from Journey to the West, one of the four famous classic novels of Chinese literature. Journey to the West may not be as well known to Western audiences as Romance of the Three Kingdoms, which imprinted itself on my teenage mind with Koei's ROTK series, but it's a famous story in China and features in various manga, games and anime. It's unsurprisingly one of the fastest-selling games of all time, with 20 million copies sold in its first month. Wukong puts you in the role of the Destined One (Sun Wukong, also called Monkey King), taking you across a lush open world filled with enemies. Fans of Elden Ring and Dark Souls will find much of the gameplay familiar, with tough bosses and the need to master your various staff techniques and combine different spells, abilities, weapons and equipment. With the mix of unique settings, stunning graphics and challenging combat, Black Myth: Wukong should keep you going for hours. It's also set to get an expansion for those who can't get enough of it. Do keep in mind, if you're not a fan of soulslike games, Wukong may not be for you.Release Date: Aug. 20, 2024Genre: Boss-rush soulslike based on Chinese literatureDeveloper: Game Science- Ajay Kumar
See at Steam
Angel Matrix
Neon White
I like fast games. I like games that test my reflexes and my ability to think on the fly. But I never understood the appeal of speedrunning until I picked up Neon White.This is a game that's as much a first-person shooter as it is a puzzle. Your weapons and your enemies aren't just there to kill or be killed: They serve as different pieces of utility to reach the finish line of each level.There was never a dull moment as I worked to get the ace medal on every level. The satisfying rhythm to the gameplay is an engagement trap, combining fluid running and gunning with double jumps, rocket jumps, ground pounds, grappling hooks and other complex movement abilities to keep players looping the same levels until they've mastered the perfect loop.Eventually there comes a point when choosing what demons to pick off first and what weapon cards to burn for extra mobility becomes second nature. Once you enter that zone, you'll understand the appeal of Neon White's endless speedrunning too.Release Date: June 16, 2022Genre: FPS puzzle platformer with a focus on speedrunningDeveloper: Angel Matrix- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Arrowhead Game Studios
Helldivers 2
Consider this a recruitment rally for the frontlines, soldiers. In Helldivers 2, humanity has unified to wage a galactic war on three fronts against the ravenous Terminids, socialist Automatons and autocratic Illuminate.The only thing standing between the continuance of Managed Democracy and our enemies is you and your allies, the elite (read: expendable) orbital drop troopers known as Helldivers. With an arsenal of traditional and futuristic guns, a growing list of destructive airstrikes and heavy weapon drops and the righteous aura of vote-protecting mass killers, players hurl themselves into the fray to fight and die (and die again) for liberty. While Helldivers 2's moment-to-moment gameplay is chaotic and disorganized frontline fun, the real draw is the meta-narrative, the synthesis of a tug-of-war between the community and game masters (together, they are Joel) at developer Arrowhead Studios.As players struggle to hold control over certain planets, storylines naturally emerge -- famously, the Helldivers fought tooth and nail through devastating losses to capture the dense jungle planet of Malevelon Creek from the Automatons and were rewarded with a commemorative cape.These massive events that make Helldivers 2 feel like a living, breathing universe are far from over -- the Illuminate siege of Super Earth was only just repelled by players and their brave compatriots in the Super Earth Armed Forces -- so there's never been a better time to arm your Hellpods and see what's next for this third-person horde shooter.Release Date: Feb. 8, 2024Genre: Cooperative tactical third-person horde shooterDeveloper: Arrowhead Studios- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Hopoo Games/Screenshot by CNET
Risk of Rain 2
Hopoo Games could have made Risk of Rain 2 an expanded version of its first roguelike sidescroller, adding new player characters, enemies and items. Instead, the sequel is an entirely different genre of game, marking a wildly successful reinvention of an indie darling as one of the best third-person shooters of all time.Your journey begins with a crash landing, as the ship carrying the player characters -- the UES Safe Travels -- is shot down while responding to a distress beacon activated by the survivors of the first Risk of Rain game. To escape Petrichor V, the crew must pull together and explore the planet's diverse biomes -- and contend with its dangerous wildlife.With playable characters ranging from the dual-wielding Commando and the highly accurate Railgunner to the stealthy Bandit and the dexterous Mercenary, there's a play style for every type of gamer in Risk of Rain 2. You'll stumble upon more than 200 pieces of equipment as you battle across the surface of the alien world, creating unique builds every time you complete a run.Whether you're trying to arcane the secrets of Petrichor V and unlock special artifact powers or you're trying to slay the final boss to escape the planet's orbit, there's always another achievement to hunt in Risk of Rain 2.Release Date: Aug. 11, 2020Genre: Sci-fi roguelike third-person shooterDeveloper: Hopoo Games- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Game Smithing Limited/Screenshot by CNET
Soulstone Survivors
Vampire Survivors may have kickstarted the creation of bullet heaven games (reverse bullet hells, where the player is filling the screen with projectiles rather than the enemies), but it didn't perfect them. That honor belongs to Soulstone Survivors and its absurd amount of unlockable in-game content.In Soulstone Survivors, you'll largely be creating synergistic builds to mow down hordes of enemies with no real narrative backbone -- but the deep meta-progression and ramping power scaling is more than enough to keep you coming back for more.There are currently 22 playable characters who can wield over 100 weapons (that change character stats and starting skills) and more than 350 in-game abilities to unlock. These characters can be augmented with dozens of special runic powers and leveled up in order to unlock unique skill trees. If that sounds like a lot of numbers, that's because it really is -- I've put hundreds of hours into Soulstone Survivors, and I'm only just now scratching the surface of Titan Hunt, the new boss raid game mode.This game is the king of "just one more run" gameplay, and frequently to my detriment. There have been many nights when I boot up Soulstone Survivors and then look at the clock to see that 3 hours have passed and it's somehow 2 a.m. I end up going to bed, closing my eyes and thinking about what builds I want to try next as I drift off to sleep.Soulstone Survivors is well on its way to leaving early access, with only one major update remaining to round out the full release on June 17. This game will alter your brain chemistry as you chase bigger numbers and quicker ways to wipe the enemies off your screen.Release Date: Nov. 7, 2022Genre: Vampire Survivors-like bullet heaven with scaling difficulty and a raid boss modeDeveloper: Game Smithing Limited- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Re-Logic
Terraria
Re-Logic's hit indie game is much more than a 2D Minecraft clone, contrary to what some folks would have you believe. Terraria is a surprisingly deep RPG that combines resource gathering, base building and multiple flavors of combat in a barely cohesive fantasy world governed by the rule of cool.The game's sandbox world is full of different biomes that house specialized threats, such as the crimson Brain of Cthulhu and the corrupt Eater of Worlds. To take on these threats above the ground, players will need to head beneath the surface to dig up ore and find secret items in buried treasure chests.Once you've made enough progress, you can head to the underworld (which is literally the bottom layer of Terraria's map -- you'll find it by digging straight down) and defeat the Wall of Flesh, which ramps the game up into hard mode. From here, there are almost a dozen more bosses to fight, new ores to mine and random events that will change your world.Terraria might be over a decade old, but it was still getting major content updates until the release of Journey's End in May 2020. This is one of the most feature-rich RPGs on PC, and you can always keep generating new sandboxes to bring your favorite toys into.Release Date: May 16, 2011Genre: 2D RPG sandbox with deep progression systemsDeveloper: Re-Logic- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
Landfall/Screenshot by CNET
Haste
When reality starts folding in on itself, interdimensional delivery girl Zoe can only do what she does best: Outrun the collapse of the universe.Haste is a speedrunning game with a vague Sonic-the-Hedgehog-meets-Tiny-Wings vibe. Players need to avoid plumes of fire, missiles, lasers and other stage hazards while landing on downwards slopes to build additional speed. If you go too slow, you risk being swallowed up by the void creeping up behind you.Each shard of reality is a new procedurally generated set of levels with a bullet hell boss at the end. Haste adapts a similar progression system to Slay the Spire -- players choose pathways that will determine if they'll be navigating regular or hard levels, taking on special challenges, buying items from a merchant or resting up by a fire to regain health.Once you've taken down every boss and completed the final shard, there are still more meta-progression upgrades you can unlock to make Zoe zip around even faster -- those will be useful in the game's endless mode, where players can race to see who can complete the most levels before wiping out on increasingly difficult obstacles.Release Date: April 1, 2025Genre: Breakneck speedrunner with roguelike elementsDeveloper: Landfall- Tyler Graham
See at Steam
PC gaming FAQs
What is the No. 1 game in the world on PC?
While the No. 1 most played PC game fluctuates month by month, Fortnite and Roblox are usually locked against one another battling for the top spot, according to games data analyst firm Newzoo.
What is the most played PC game ever?
The most played PC game ever is Crossfire, a South Korean game similar to Counter-Strike.
What are the best free PC games?
We've included some of the best free PC games on this list, including Overwatch 2, Valorant and Warframe, but other popular free PC games include League of Legends, Rocket League and Apex Legends.
What are classic PC games that still hold up?
Our best list contains mostly newer PC game releases, but there are many classics that have stood the test of time. Some of the best classic PC games include Half-Life, RuneScape, Doom, Diablo 2, Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic and StarCraft 2.
Recent updates to the listFebruary 2025: While no new games have been added to the list so far this year, Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2 is an early frontrunner. A spate of stellar seasonal events, maps and new heroes has also put Marvel Rivals in contention for the PC hero shooter crown.Read more: The Best Heroes to Play in Marvel RivalsJune 2025: Added Helldivers 2, Risk of Rain 2, Soulstone Survivors, Terraria and Haste to the list in order to represent both games industry behemoths and indie gaming hidden gems.How we determined CNET's best PC gamesWhen creating this list of the best PC games, we factored in how unique and enjoyable these games are for most players. We evaluated criteria including graphical quality, innovative gameplay mechanics and compelling narratives. The picks we made cover a variety of genres from fantasy to retro platformers to shooters to strategy games, and while we favored PC-exclusive games and indie titles you won't find on Xbox, PlayStation or Nintendo Switch, we also included some can't-miss games that appear on multiple platforms. If you're looking for help choosing your next game, CNET's top PC list is a good place to start narrowing your choices.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.