parallel processing - Is CPU multithreading effected by divergence? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Is CPU multithreading effected by divergence?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
62 times
1
Building on this question here
The term thread divergence is used in CUDA; from my understanding it's a situation where different threads are assigned to do different tasks and this results in a big performance hit.
I have also heard this referred to as warp divergence, here for example.
Does the use of if/else conditional branches effect the performance of CPU multithreading?
multithreadingparallel-processinggpucpucpu-architecture
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 22 hours ago
Peter Cordes
374k5050 gold badges737737 silver badges1k1k bronze badges
asked 23 hours ago
bigcodeszzerbigcodeszzer
95211 gold badge88 silver badges3131 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
1
No, unlike GPUs, each (logical) CPU core has its own instruction stream.
On CPUs, there's no equivalent to a "warp" with a single instruction stream fed to different processors with different register values.
On CPUs, different loop iterations branching different ways is only a problem for SIMD vectorization (one instruction operates on e.g. 4 floats in a 128-bit vector register), not for parallelization with multiple CPU threads.
GPUs are made from many simple pipelines in parallel, which is great for throughput.
CPUs also have to care about single-threaded performance, so they have complex pipelines that try to extract instruction-level parallelism while executing a single instruction stream as-if each instruction ran serially (at least from the perspective of later instructions seeing earlier instructions, not from other cores seeing our loads and stores).
So sending more instructions per clock through the pipe is costly because it needs a lot of tracking (reorder buffer, schedulers, rename/allocate); current CPU cores are like 6 to 8 (instructions) wide.
(Zen 4, Lion Cove, M1 are all in that range IIRC.)
To get more work done per clock cycle in a CPU, SIMD instructions are still one instruction (or uop) for the pipeline, but with a wide execution unit and register file.
So we get more work through the pipeline without making all of it wider, just the real number-crunching parts.
See Modern Microprocessors
A 90-Minute Guide!, it's very good, starting from scalar pipelines up to superscalar / out-of-order exec, and has a section on SIMD.
(And the whole article really isn't too long and is very readable.)
Unpredictable branches are a problem for CPUs in general, though.
Modern branch predictors are very good for a lot of cases, but data-dependent branching based on random values in an array is often still a problem.
Branchless code can be faster, which is why compilers do if-conversion from branchy source to branchless machine code when they think it's profitable, especially as part of vectorizing.
(SIMD ISAs often have blend instructions, or you can emulate with AND/ANDNOT/OR, and SIMD compares produce a mask of all-1 / all-0 bits according to the compare result for each element.)
See
Why is processing an unsorted array the same speed as processing a sorted array with modern x86-64 clang? - C compilers auto-vectorize if (data[c] >= 128) sum += data[c]; these days so it's branchless.
gcc optimization flag -O3 makes code slower than -O2 - if-conversion (especially scalar) can make programs slower if the branch would have been predictable, especially when the compiler does a bad job and makes a longer loop-carried dependency chain than necessary.
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
edited 22 hours ago
answered 22 hours ago
Peter CordesPeter Cordes
374k5050 gold badges737737 silver badges1k1k bronze badges
4 Comments
Add a comment
bigcodeszzer bigcodeszzer 18 hours ago
I suppose even if it doesn't matter for multithreading, there is still a case for branchless programming? ie. it is best practice to minimize if/else when possible. So the same techniques used in gpu programming to do this are applicable to serial also. 2025-09-18T06:41:57.95Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
Peter Cordes Peter Cordes 18 hours ago
Yes, that's what the final section of my answer is about.
Depending on how much work is in each branch, and how unpredictable the branch is, branchless can be worse.
But doing things like arr[i] = x ? src[i] : arr[i]; gives the compiler permission to load/blend/store instead of having to avoid some stores with if(x) arr[i] = src[i]; for example, without needing to use masked stores (e.g. AVX vmaskmovps slow on AMD and only for 4 or 8-byte elements, or AVX-512 fast everywhere.)
Otherwise GCC/Clang are pretty good about if-conversion even for scalar (cmov); Clang is pret 2025-09-18T06:47:40.47Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
bigcodeszzer bigcodeszzer 18 hours ago
I remember a professor used to use bit shifts to get around ternary operators. I wonder if that is just generally faster? 2025-09-18T06:54:51.617Z+00:00
0
Copy link
Peter Cordes Peter Cordes 17 hours ago
It's not.
Compilers would just have to decode it back into a select operation to compile it to x86 cmov or AArch64 csel or whatever. 2025-09-18T07:48:04.667Z+00:00
0
Copy link
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
multithreadingparallel-processinggpucpucpu-architecture
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Linked
189
Why is processing an unsorted array the same speed as processing a sorted array with modern x86-64 clang?
55
gcc optimization flag -O3 makes code slower than -O2
5
Openmp thread divergence?
0
Warp divergence
Related
1264
How do servlets work? Instantiation, sessions, shared variables and multithreading
5
Openmp thread divergence?
414
Do zombies exist ... in .NET?
780
How to determine CPU and memory consumption from inside a process
782
Your CPU supports instructions that this TensorFlow binary was not compiled to use: AVX AVX2
3
How does a GPU group threads into warps/wavefronts?
146
Does Python support multithreading? Can it speed up execution time?
467
What is the difference between asynchronous programming and multithreading?
2
GPU for loops: avoid warp divergence & implicit syncthreads
0
Does "conditional evaluation at the ALU" always imply no branch divergence?
Hot Network Questions
How to model a twisted vase geometry with vertical ridges using Geometry Nodes?
Should beginner writers publish short story science fiction on Amazon short reads to get experience?
What would be the impact of a being that is so hot it melts metal from 1km away. How far away would be habitable? (On Earth btw)
How to search only within a selected range?
9/16/25 operations challenge
Memory mapped file interface for linux
What is the minimum number of games played between Arun and Disha?
Is "Why the difference?" a valid instance of ellipsis, if yes is "Why going there?" also valid?
A question regarding a family of one-relator groups
How to justify a mass hierarchal administrative demotion without causing a coup/civil war
Deleted apps showing in System settings/Menu bar
Get function parameter for functions fitting "between" two other functions
What is a "mob" character in the context of Isekai works?
Is it possible to follow the Buddha’s core teachings while rejecting supernatural beliefs like gods, ghosts, reincarnation, heaven and hell realms?
How to design the input resistance of a voltage regulator?
How to write ${...} as text in file
Maximizing profit given a PMF
Why do complex questions lead to simple elegant answers?
What happens when a creature with the See Invisibility spell is blinded?
Must I enclose the values of the parameters in GRUB with quotation marks?
My pure mathematics PhD dissertation will likely be very short. I have until the last day of January 2026 to remedy this. What can I do?
Pressure treated or regular wood for temporary ramp?
NTRU-HRSS definition of Lift
CiviCRM standalone - how do I log out?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093