EPA Prioritizes Review of New Chemicals Used in Data Center Projects, Supporting American Manufacturing and Technological Advancement | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental TopicsAirBed BugsChemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency ResponseEnvironmental Information by Location HealthLand, Waste, and CleanupLeadMoldRadonResearchScience TopicsWater TopicsA-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & RegulationsBy Business SectorBy TopicComplianceEnforcementGuidanceLaws and Executive OrdersRegulations
Report a Violation
Report a ViolationEnvironmental ViolationsFraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPAOur Mission and What We DoHeadquarters OfficesRegional OfficesLabs and Research CentersPlanning, Budget, and ResultsOrganization ChartEPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
News Releases
EPA Prioritizes Review of New Chemicals Used in Data Center Projects, Supporting American Manufacturing and Technological Advancement
September 18, 2025
Contact Information
EPA Press Office
(press@epa.gov)
WASHINGTON – Following a roundtable with AI and data center leaders at the White House on Monday, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lee Zeldin announced that it will be prioritizing the review of new chemicals under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) that are intended for use in data center projects or for the manufacturing of covered components, as defined by Executive Order 14318, “Accelerating Federal Permitting of Data Center Infrastructure.” This prioritization of reviews will start with submissions received on or after September 29, 2025.“We inherited a massive backlog of new chemical reviews from the Biden Administration which is getting in the way of projects as it pertains to data center and artificial intelligence projects. The Trump EPA wants to get out of the way and help speed up progress on these critical developments, as opposed to gumming up the works. We are taking every step possible to make America the artificial intelligence capital of the world. The American people demand it. President Trump and his team are getting it done,” said EPA Administrator Zeldin.The expeditious review of new chemicals, especially those needed to support our nation’s investment, advances innovation and helps to grow our nation’s economy. This effort advances Administrator Zeldin’s Powering the Great American Comeback initiative by streamlining the review of critically needed chemicals and ensuring data centers and related facilities can be powered and operated in a clean manner to make the U.S. the AI capital of the world.Section 7 of the Executive Order directs the EPA to expedite permitting on Federal and non-Federal lands under laws including TSCA that impact the development of qualifying projects such as AI data centers and the infrastructure that powers them (i.e. high voltage transmission lines and other equipment). In line with this directive, EPA will prioritize review of certain new chemicals to reduce the regulatory burden to companies looking to invest in them.EPA will prioritize the review of submissions for new chemicals that are intended for use in data center projects or in the manufacturing of covered components, in each case, which pertain to a data center project that is a qualifying project, as defined by the Executive Order. New chemical manufacturers may also seek to prioritize the review of a new chemical under the directives of this Executive Order if the chemical has such an intended use. While the agency is prioritizing the review of new chemicals related to this Executive Order, EPA is committed to reviewing all new chemical submissions in a timely manner and continues work to reduce the backlog of new chemicals under review.To help companies determine if their chemical and intended use qualify for prioritized review, EPA has provided instructions for the best way for submitters to make their request and provide necessary information to support the request. Companies with new chemicals qualifying for prioritized review can identify their submission as a chemical intended for use in a data center project or for the manufacturing of covered components by submitting a cover letter through the Central Data Exchange (CDX) with their new chemical submission identifying the use and the data center where the new chemical or covered component will be used.EPA will assess this method of identifying relevant submissions as time goes on to ensure the timely review of new chemicals to make the U.S. the AI capital of the world.BackgroundPresident Trump’s Executive Order 14179, “Removing Barriers to American Leadership in Artificial Intelligence (AI),” boldly calls for America to advance dominance in technological innovation through the creation of an AI Action Plan. “America’s AI Action Plan,” released in July 2025, is comprised of three pillars—innovation, infrastructure, and international diplomacy and security—that provide the foundational framework for victory in this hypercompetitive global race. Inspired by this vision, EPA is focused on strengthening America’s energy foundation and ensuring our nation remains the global leader in AI and the infrastructure that powers it.Making America the AI Capital of the World is a core pillar of Administrator Zeldin’s Powering the Great American Comeback Initiative. In July, Administrator Zeldin attended the Pennsylvania Energy & Innovation Summit and participated in a roundtable alongside President Trump and National Energy Dominance Council (NEDC) partners where industry leaders announced over $90 billion in investments in the Keystone State, creating jobs and helping to unleash American energy to power the AI revolution.In a Fox News op-ed published following the trip, Administrator Zeldin highlighted for the first time, EPA’s proposals to streamline permitting and regulations to accelerate American data center development. EPA will continue to do its part to advance America’s leadership in AI while maintaining its core mission of protecting human health and the environment.
Related Links
Headquarters | Office of the Administrator (AO)
Read other EPA News Releases about Administrator
Read other EPA News Releases about Pesticides and Toxic Chemicals
Read other EPA News Releases about Partnerships and Stewardship
Read other EPA News Releases about Read other EPA News Releases about Air and Radiation
Read other EPA News Releases about Research
Read other EPA News Releases about Energy
Read other EPA News Releases about Read other EPA News Releases about Air and Radiation
Contact Us about News Releases
Contact Us about News Releases to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on September 18, 2025
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.