I Tested the Apple Watch Ultra 3 and It's Like a Land Rover for Your Wrist - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
apple event
TechMobile Smartwatches
I Tested the Apple Watch Ultra 3 and It's Like a Land Rover for Your Wrist
Review: With its two-day battery life and satellite-powered safety features, Apple's rugged new smartwatch is built for sensible thrill seekers who still want convenience.
Vanessa Hand Orellana Lead Writer Vanessa is a lead writer at CNET, reviewing and writing about the latest smartwatches and fitness trackers. She joined the brand first as an on-camera reporter for CNET's Spanish-language site, then moved on to the English side to host and produce some of CNET's videos and YouTube series. When she's not testing out smartwatches or dropping phones, you can catch her on a hike or trail run with her family. Expertise Consumer Technology, Smart Home, Family, Apps, Wearables
See full bio
Vanessa Hand Orellana
Sept. 23, 2025
5:00 a.m. PT 10 min read
Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNET
The Apple Watch Ultra 3 is like the luxury Land Rover you see in safari brochures: It's adventure-ready on the outside, with all the modern conveniences on the inside. This smartwatch is ready to carry you back to everyday life without the dust-in-your-teeth, back-busting bounce of a beat-up Jeep. It straddles that line between rugged and refined, with just enough upgrades under the hood to make it worth the wait.Of all the watches Apple announced at its September event (the Series 11 and SE 3 included), the Apple Watch Ultra 3 was the one I was most curious to test. I've been reviewing smartwatches for over a decade, but this is my first time wearing an Ultra. I'll admit, though, that I wasn't looking forward to the added bulk, especially during sleep. For someone who won't even wear a ring to bed if I can help it, the Ultra 3 might as well have been a wrist shackle. I remember feeling crushed when I wasn't the one reviewing the Ultra at its debut in 2022. With its first scuba certification and high-pressure water sports rating, I was daydreaming about dusting off my scuba license and taking it on a jet-ski ride somewhere exotic -- realistically, it probably would've been the cold waters of Monterey Bay, California, near where I live. But between logistics and maternity leave, I sat out the first two Ultras. By round three, I was more than ready to put one on my wrist, even if it meant shelving my dreams of testing it in tropical getaways since most of the new features aren't tied to water sports.
Apple Watch Ultra 3
Buy at Apple
Like
Two-day battery life
Ultra fast charging (12% in 15 minutes)
Satellite connectivity for off-the-grid emergencies
Bright screen for clear visibility in harsh sunlight
Don't like
Only one (49mm) sizing option
$800 price tag is double that of the Series 11
Rugged design is less versatile than other models
Instead, the Ultra 3 builds on its predecessors with satellite connectivity, allowing for an extra layer of protection when you're off the grid. There's also a faster processor, longer battery life and, to my surprise, a design that isn't as bulky as I feared. Even for bed.In a smartwatch landscape where it's competing with feature-first rivals, such as Samsung and Google, and endurance-first brands like Garmin, which offers week-long battery life and satellite features, the Ultra 3 lands right in the middle. It's the all-wheel-drive SUV of the smartwatch world: built for adventure, but without sacrificing the comfort, convenience and that seamless iPhone integration that only the Apple Watch can offer. But it doesn't quite bridge the gap for people (like me) who prefer a slimmer, more polished design. While my husband, who's never owned a smartwatch in his life, would happily wear it all day. I'd still swap it out for the Series 11 before a night out that required anything beyond tennis shoes. And just like I can appreciate the engineering of a Land Rover without actually wanting to drive one every day, I can admire the Ultra 3 without crowning it my ride-or-die.
Watch this: New Apple Watches Are Raising Our Blood Pressure With Their New Features
05:22
Best battery life in an Apple Watch One of the biggest draws of Apple's Ultra line, beyond its rugged features, has been better battery life. The Ultra 3 pushes past the 36-hour mark set by the Ultra and Ultra 2: Apple says it can run for 42 hours of daily use, but you can likely squeeze in a few additional hours depending on what you do with it. During my testing, I was able to get anywhere between 45 and 49 hours. This included at least one 90-minute hike (paired to my phone) and two nights of sleep tracking, followed by a mostly sedentary day of writing at my desk. For someone used to charging an Apple Watch almost daily, that extra day of charge felt almost disconcerting. For context, I got about 28 hours of use out of the Series 11, including a 45-minute run. The 5G (technically 5G RedCap, or 5G Reduced Capacity) and new antenna algorithm makes it more efficient and less power hungry when using cellular, but it still drains faster than staying paired to the phone. Satellite use can also affect battery life, so on multiday hikes it's probably worth switching to low-power mode to stretch the Ultra 3 to its promised 72 hours and save the emergency satellite features for when you truly need them. The Ultra 3 is also rated for 14 hours of GPS workouts with heart-rate tracking, which should just about cover a full Ironman if your pace is fast enough. Serious triathletes will probably still want the added buffer of a dedicated sport watch.Where the Ultra shines past the sport watches, though, is in charging speed. This is the first Ultra to live up to its name with the ultra fast charging that we saw come to the Series 10 and Series 11 watches. You can now charge it from zero to 100% in about an hour, get 12 hours of charge in just 15 minutes, or get enough power to cover a full night of sleep tracking (8 hours) in the time it takes you to brush your teeth. For me, those top-offs have made the difference between skipping sleep tracking entirely and actually unlocking the full picture of the Ultra's health features.
Satellite connectivity on the Apple Watch Ultra 3 can send out emergency messages even when you're out of cell range.  Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETSatellite connectivity beefs up emergency features on the Ultra 3The Apple Watch Ultra 3 is the first Apple Watch to offer satellite connectivity. It's a feature that iPhones (14 and later) already include, but this one stays on you, even if you fall. Not only can you manually send out a cry for help or share your location with contacts when you're out of cellular range, the watch can also do it automatically if the fall detection (watch) or crash detection (watch and iPhone) mode is triggered. And with low-power mode extending battery life up to 72 hours, it could outlast your iPhone in those emergency situations, giving you an extra layer of safety when you're off the grid.At this stage in life with three young kids, my off-the-grid camping days are few and far between. But when I unexpectedly found myself without service (and a little lost) on the winding backroads of Northern California's wine country this weekend, I used it as the perfect excuse to test the feature myself. I've been wearing the new Waypoint watch face, which adds a satellite shortcut in the corner, but you can also trigger satellite communication from SOS or location sharing (or automatically with crash and fall detection).There's also a demo mode to try when you're within cell range. The watch first walks you through connecting to a passing satellite; because satellites aren't static, you may need to step into open space or wait for one to pass overhead. Mine locked in right away. The SOS demo then asked a short series of questions Apple would relay to emergency responders to speed up help. If an emergency were triggered automatically (fall or crash) those prompts would be skipped.When I visited Apple's labs, I saw how the company tests this accuracy by simulating satellite geometry anywhere in the world, essentially tricking the watch into believing it's deep in the backcountry. That accuracy is critical to making sure help is dispatched to the right place in a real emergency.In addition to the emergency features and satellite connectivity, the Ultra 3 also has a safety siren you can access by long-pressing the Action button, just like triggering Emergency SOS by long-pressing the side button on all Apple Watch models. This feature, unique to the Ultra line, plays two alternating, piercing tones on repeat that can be heard from up to 600 feet away and can help further guide emergency responders to your location.  I didn't need rescuing that day in wine country, thankfully, but it was reassuring to know the watch did in fact connect to a satellite while I was otherwise cut off.
The Hypertension notification on the Apple Watch Series 11.  Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETNew health features powered by longer battery lifeThe Ultra 3 adds a new hypertension (high blood pressure) notification, also coming to the Series 9 and later with WatchOS 26. I've never been diagnosed with hypertension, and I haven't been wearing the watch long enough to trigger an alert (it requires 30 days of data), but the reassurance matters -- especially since high blood pressure runs in my family and often has no obvious symptoms. Like the watch's irregular heart rhythm and sleep apnea alerts, it runs passively in the background and requires nothing more than opting in during setup or under the Heart section in the Health app on your iPhone. If an alert does appear, Apple recommends confirming with a traditional blood-pressure cuff and logging your readings in the Health app, which now allows you to export results as a PDF for your physician. Apple estimates that up to one million people could be notified of undiagnosed hypertension in the first year alone.The other big addition is Sleep Score, also rolling out to older Apple Watches (Series 6 and later, SE 2 and later, and all Ultra models) with watchOS 26. Beyond just tracking your time in bed and sleep stages, Sleep Score gives you a 0 to 100 rating from "Low" to "Excellent," based on three main factors: time to bed, duration and interruptions. Apple says it's using the latest clinical sleep guidance to inform the scoring.Because the feature is retroactive, I was able to see my past sleep charted out and notice how the Ultra 3's better battery life and faster charging were already influencing my patterns. My previous data was all over the place, with averages skewed by nights I skipped sleep tracking entirely. Since testing the Ultra 3 (and the Series 11, which has the same fast charging), my sleep tracking has become a lot more consistent and dare I say "better" at least by Apple's standards, despite still having the random toddler wake-ups and late-night writing sessions.And while I still wouldn't call myself a fan of sleep tracking, I am a proponent of using the Apple Watch to its fullest health-tracking potential. Sleep data unlocks other features like sleep apnea alerts, menstrual cycle and ovulation predictions and more robust vitals tracking. It requires at least seven nights of temperature data to give a complete picture.
The Apple Watch Ultra 3 with the Waypoint watch face. Vanessa Hand Orellana/CNETSimilar design, brighter screen, bump in processing powerComing off the 42mm Series 11, the Ultra 3 felt massive when I first strapped it on. At 61.6 grams, it's nearly twice the weight and its 49mm screen dominates the wrist. But after that initial "whoa" moment, it didn't bother me nearly as much as I expected; no lopsided walking or swinging my arm into doorframes. I even got through a full week of sleep tracking without ripping it off in the middle of the night. The Ultra 3 sticks with the familiar Ultra shape: a titanium flanked Apple Watch with a flat-topped sapphire crystal display that lies flush with the frame. The body this time around is made from 50% recycled titanium, but more notable is that it's 3D-printed, not hewed from a solid block of metal. Despite that, I can't see any obvious signs, such as layer lines, that it was manufactured differently. It's fit for recreational scuba diving up to 40 meters and high-speed water sports with an IP6X rating for dust resistance. You also get the dedicated Action button, which can be customized for quick access to features whether you're in or out of the water, though I've set mine to start workouts. Under the hood is Apple's S10 chip, which is new to the Ultra, but not new to the Apple Watch. All three 2025 Apple Watches run on this processor, which was first seen on the Series 10. What really impressed me, though, was the screen. The Ultra 3 still reaches the same 3,000-nit peak brightness as its predecessor, but the switch to an LTPO3 wide-angle OLED display makes it look brighter in real-world use, while also being more power efficient. Reading my stats under a thick canopy of trees or in the harsh midday sun was seamless. I watched the display adjust in an instant as I moved from shade to sunlight keeping the screen looking just as clear and bright in the two opposing environments.This means the flashlight is also brighter, and helpful in a pinch. I wouldn't recommend buying an Ultra just to locate lost baby bottles in the middle of the night (for which it works like a charm), but for outdoor night use, I can imagine it would be especially useful.
All three Apple Watch models announced at Apple's Sept. 9 event: Apple Watch Ultra 3, Apple Watch Series 11 and Apple Watch SE 3 (left to right). Celso Bulgatti/CNETWatchOS 26: A nice paint job and some AI features New software gives the Ultra 3 a fresh look once you turn on the screen. WatchOS 26 (preloaded on the Ultra 3) brings smoother animations and translucent overlays to the interface. The Liquid Glass UI, also on the iPhone and other Apple devices, makes the whole experience feel more cohesive across platforms, though the softer contrast can make things a little harder to read at a glance on the Ultra 3. (If it bothers you, you can dial it back with the Reduce Transparency toggle in Settings.)WatchOS 26 isn't just about looks, though. It also adds practical features across the lineup: a native Notes app, a redesigned Workout app that can cue up music or media automatically and new wrist-flick gestures that let you silence alarms or calls without touching the screen.The biggest (but less obvious) addition is Workout Buddy, a feature that gives you real-time motivation and feedback during runs, walks and several other workouts based on your own metrics. It's not the AI fitness coach some people expected, but after testing it out in beta for over a month, I think it's a solid first step into the AI space -- mostly because of how natural and un-scripted it feels. Right now it mostly gives me pace alerts and the occasional nudge and still needs the iPhone for processing power, but if Apple expands it into more personalized training down the line, it could become one of the most important building blocks for Apple's eventual health coaching ambitions.
The Apple Watch 3 in the black titanium finish.   Vanessa Hand OrellanaApple Watch Ultra 3 bottom lineI can appreciate the perks of having the Ultra 3, but not enough to ditch my Goldilocks pick, the Series 11. I recommend the Apple Watch Ultra 3 for anyone who puts battery life above all else, even with the higher price tag. At $800, it runs about twice the cost of the base Series 11 and nearly three times the SE 3, which now brings an always-on display and advanced health tracking like temperature and sleep score (though not ECG or hypertension alerts).The Ultra 3 is the rugged upgrade that lets you go off-roading without leaving the comfort and convenience of Apple's ecosystem. And with satellite connectivity, its safety guardrails now stretch even further so you can go feed your thrill seeking alter ego without as much reckless abandonment knowing you're always connected. 2025 Apple Watches compared
Apple Watch Series 11Apple Watch Ultra 3Apple Watch SE (3rd Gen) Design & sizes Rectangular, 42mm, 46mmRectangular, 49mmRectangular, 40mm, 44mmDisplay 42mm: 446×374 pixels; LTPO3 OLED Retina display (wide-angle) 46mm: 496×416 pixels; LTPO3 OLED Retina display (wide-angle)49mm: 514×422 pixels; LTPO3 OLED Retina display (wide-angle, Always On)44mm: 368×448 pixels (Always On Retina LTPO OLED)
Apple 40mm: 324×394 pixels (Always On Retina LTPO OLED)Brightness
Between 1 and 2,000 nitsBetween 1 and 3,000 nitsUp to 1,000 nitsThickness & weight 46mm: 9.7mm; 37.8g (aluminum GPS), 36.9g (aluminum GPS+Cellular), 43.1g (titanium) 42mm: 9.7mm; 30.3g (aluminum GPS), 29.7g (aluminum GPS+Cellular), 34.6g (titanium)49mm: 14.4mm; 61.6g (titanium)44mm: 10.7mm; 33.0g (aluminum GPS+Cellular) 40mm: 10.7mm; 26.4g (aluminum GPS+Cellular)Material & finish Aluminum: jet black, rose gold or silver finish; Titanium: slate, gold or natural finish with sapphire crystal display (titanium) Titanium, natural or black finish with sapphire crystal display (titanium) 100% recycled aluminum, midnight and starlightDurability 2X more scratch resistant glass (aluminum), 5ATM Water + IP6X (dust)Water resistance 100m; dust IP6X, scuba to 40m, tested to MIL-STD 810HCover glass is 4X times more resistant to cracks than the SE 2; made of Ion-X glass. Water resistant up to 50 meters.Battery life Up to 24 hours, up to 38 hours Low Power (always-on) + Fast charge: 80% in 30 min, 100% in 60 minUp to 42 hours; up to 72 hours Low Power. Fast charge to 80% in 45 min, 100% charge 75 minAll-day, 18-hour battery life. Fast charging with 8 hours of normal use in just 15 minutes on the charger. Sensors ECG, 3rd-gen optical heart sensor, skin temp, depth gauge, SpO2, Noise monitoring, water temperature, compassECG, 3rd-gen optical heart sensor, skin temp, depth gauge, SpO2, Noise monitoring, water temperature, compassWrist temperature, Second-generation optical heart sensorEmergency features Satellite SOS, Emergency SOS, Fall detection, Crash detection, Check in and BacktrackSatellite SOS, Emergency SOS, Fall detection, Crash detection, Check in and BacktrackFall Detection, Crash Detection, Emergency SOS and Check InAI & coaching Siri (voice assistant); Workout BuddySiri (voice assistant); Workout BuddyOn-device Siri, Workout BuddyProcessor S10 SiP with 64-bit dual-core processor, W3 Apple wireless chipS10 SiP with 64-bit dual-core processor, W3 Apple wireless chipS10 SiP with 64-bit dual-core processor, W3 Apple wireless chipRAM/Storage 64GB (storage)64GB (storage)64GB (storage)Payments Apple PayApple PayApple PayPrice (US) $399-$750 (titanium)$799$249 (starting)
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.