Ngāti Whātua - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
2
Governance
3
Hapū and marae
Toggle Hapū and marae subsection
3.1
Northern Wairoa
3.2
Whangarei
3.3
Ōrākei
4
Radio station
5
Notable people
6
References
7
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Ngāti Whātua
6 languages
DeutschHausaHrvatskiMāoriNorsk nynorskРусский
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Māori iwi (tribe) in New Zealand
Māori iwi in New ZealandNgāti WhātuaIwi (tribe) in MāoridomLower Northland PeninsulaRohe (region)Northland and AucklandWaka (canoe)Māhuhu-ki-te-rangiWebsitewww.ngatiwhatua.iwi.nz
Plaque in Auckland
Ngāti Whātua is a Māori iwi (tribe) of the lower Northland Peninsula of New Zealand's North Island.[1] It comprises a confederation of five hapū (subtribes) interconnected both by ancestry and by association over time: Te Uri-o-Hau, Te Roroa, Te Taoū, Ngāti Whātua o Kaipara and Ngāti Whātua-o-Ōrākei. The five hapū can act together or separately as independent tribes.[2][3][4]
Ngāti Whātua's territory or rohe is traditionally expressed as, "Tāmaki ki Maunganui i te Tai Hauauru" and "Tāmaki ki Manaia i te Rawhiti". The northern boundary is expressed as, "Manaia titiro ki Whatitiri, Whatitiri titiro ki Tutamoe, Tutamoe titiro ki Maunganui". The southern boundary is expressed as, "Te awa o Tāmaki". The area runs from Tāmaki River in the south to Maunganui Bluff (at the northern end of Aranga Beach on the west coast) in the north, and to Whangarei Harbour on the east coast. By the time of European settlement in New Zealand, Ngāti Whātua's territory was around the Kaipara Harbour and stretching south to Tāmaki Makaurau, the site of present-day Auckland.[2]
History[edit]
Ngāti Whātua descends from the ancestor Tuputupuwhenua (also known as Tumutumuwhenua). The iwi traces its arrival in New Zealand to the Māhuhu-ki-te-rangi canoe, which landed north of the Kaipara Harbour. They also descend from ancestors who migrated from Muriwhenua in the Far North and intermarried with the tribes in Ngāti Whātua's territory.[3] By the 16th and 17th century, Ngāti Whātua had become established around the Kaipara Harbour.[5]
Rivalry with Ngāpuhi escalated in the early 19th century when Ngāpuhi acquired muskets. Ngāpuhi attacked Ngāti Whātua in 1807 or 1808 in the battle of Moremonui north of Dargaville – probably the occasion of the first use of firearms in Māori warfare. Ngāti Whātua overcame the Ngāpuhi warriors with hand weapons while Ngāpuhi were reloading their muskets, winning a decisive victory over the attackers. Ngāpuhi, led by Hongi Hika, exacted revenge in 1825 when they defeated Ngāti Whātua in the battle of Te Ika a Ranganui near Kaiwaka.
On 20 March 1840 in the Manukau Harbour area where Ngāti Whātua farmed, paramount chief Apihai Te Kawau signed Te Tiriti o Waitangi, the Treaty of Waitangi.[6] Ngāti Whātua sought British protection from Ngāpuhi as well as a reciprocal relationship with the Crown and the Church. Soon after signing the Treaty, Te Kawau offered land on the Waitematā Harbour to William Hobson, the new Governor of New Zealand, for his new capital.[7][8][9][10] Hobson took up the offer and moved the capital of New Zealand to Tāmaki Makaurau, naming the settlement Auckland.
Ngāti Whātua came to national prominence in the 1970s in a dispute over vacant land at Bastion Point, a little way east of the Auckland city centre, adjoining the suburb of Ōrākei. The land, which the New Zealand government had acquired cheaply for public works many decades before, largely reverted to the tribe after a long occupation and passive resistance.[11][12]
Governance[edit]
Te Runanga o Ngāti Whātua has a mandate, recognised by the New Zealand Government, to negotiate Treaty of Waitangi settlements for Ngāti Whatua. It is also a mandated iwi organisation under the Māori Fisheries Act, and an Iwi Aquaculture Organisation in the Māori Commercial Aquaculture Claims Settlement Act. It represents Ngāti Whatua as an iwi authority under the Resource Management Act and is a Tūhono organisation.
The Runanga is a Māori Trust Board governed by 11 trustees from 5 takiwā or districts: 1 trustee from Ōrākei, 2 from South Kaipara, 3 from Otamatea, 1 from Whangarei and 4 from Northern Wairoa.[1] As of 2022, the co-chairpersons of the trust are Allan Pivac and Dame Rangimarie Naida Glavish DNZM. JP, the Manahautū is Alan Riwaka, and the trust is based in Whangarei.[13]
The iwi has interest in the territory of Northland Regional Council, Auckland Council, Kaipara District Council and Whangarei District Council.[1]
Hapū and marae[edit]
Northern Wairoa[edit]
Ngāti Hinga hapū, based at Ahikiwi marae (Te Aranga Mai o te Whakapono wharenui), Kaihū
Ngāti Torehina, based at Taita marae (Kia Mahara Koutou wharenui), Māmaranui
Unidentified hapū, based at Kāpehu marae (Tāringaroa wharenui), Mititai, and Tama te Uaua marae (Tama te Uaua wharenui), Kaihū
Te Popoto, based at Ōtūrei marae (Rangimārie Te Aroha wharenui), Aratapu
Te Roroa, based at Pananawe marae (Te Taumata o Tiopira Kinaki wharenui), Waipoua; Te Houhanga marae (Rāhiri wharenui), Dargaville; Waikarā marae (Te Uaua wharenui), Aranga;
Te Uri o Hau, based at: Otamatea Marae, Kaipara, Maungataroto. Naumai marae (Ngā Uri o te Kotahitanga wharenui), Ruawai; Ōtūrei marae (Rangimārie Te Aroha wharenui), Aratapu; Rīpia marae (No wharenui), Rīpia, and Pouto; Waikaretu marae, Matakohe; Parirau Marae-Wharemarama (Te Uri-o-Hau).[1]
Whangarei[edit]
The Whangarei district has four hapū (sub-tribes):
Patuharakeke hapū, based at Takahiwai marae (Rangiora wharenui), Takahiwai
Te Kuihi hapū, based at Tangiterōria marae (Tirarau wharenui), Tangiterōria
Te Parawhau hapū, based at Korokota marae (Tikitiki o Rangi wharenui), Tītoki and Tangiterōria marae (Tirarau wharenui), Tangiterōria
Te Uriroroi hapū, based at Toetoe marae (Toetoe wharenui), Ōtaika[1]
Ōrākei[edit]
Ngā Oho, based at Ōrākei marae (with Tumutumuwhenua wharenui), Ōrākei
Te Taoū, based at Ōrākei marae (with Tumutumuwhenua wharenui), Ōrākei
Te Uri Ngutu, based at Ōrākei marae (with Tumutumuwhenua wharenui), Ōrākei[1]
Radio station[edit]
Ake 1179 is the official radio station of Ngāti Whātua, but is not officially part of the iwi radio network.[14] It broadcasts on 1179 AM in Auckland, and features a combination of urban contemporary music and traditional storytelling.[15]
Notable people[edit]
Main category: Ngāti Whātua people
Dame Naida Glavish, politician and community leader
Joe Hawke, politician and businessman
Josh Hohneck, rugby union player
Erana James, actress
Hugh Kāwharu, chief and academic
Merata Kawharu, writer and academic
Graham Latimer, former Māori Council president
Manos Nathan, ceramicist
Paraire Karaka Paikea, politician and church minister
Ōtene Pāora, Māori leader and land negotiator
Tame Te Rangi, civil servant and sports commentator
Ngapipi Reweti, land negotiator
Āpihai Te Kawau, tribal leader
Pāora Tūhaere, tribal leader
Diane Prince, artist, weaver and set designer
Sir William Richard Wright, treaty negotiator and member of the New Zealand Order of Merit
References[edit]
^ a b c d e f "Rohe". tkm.govt.nz. Te Puni Kōkiri, New Zealand Government. Retrieved 2 March 2016.
^ a b "Te rohe o Ngāti Whātua: our area". Te Rūnanga o Ngāti Whātua. Archived from the original on 24 May 2015. Retrieved 24 May 2015.
^ a b Taonui, Rāwiri (22 September 2012). "Ngāti Whātua – Origins". Te Ara – the Encyclopedia of New Zealand. Retrieved 24 May 2015.
^ Taonga, New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage Te Manatu. "Ngāti Whātua". teara.govt.nz. Retrieved 2022-09-03.
^ Kāwharu, Hugh (2001). Land and Identity in Tāmaki: a Ngāti Whātua Perspective (PDF) (Speech). Hillary Lecture. Auckland, New Zealand: Auckland War Memorial Museum. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 November 2021. Retrieved 26 January 2018.
^ "Signing the Treaty in Manukau in 1840". Auckland Council. Archived from the original on 4 June 2016. Retrieved 24 May 2016.
^ Pihema, Ani; Kerei, Ruby; Oliver, Steven. "Apihai Te Kawau". Dictionary of New Zealand Biography. Ministry for Culture and Heritage. Retrieved 23 April 2017.
^ "Āpihai Te Kawau". Research and Publishing Group of the New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage. Retrieved 3 August 2019.
^ "Apihai Te Kawau". Ngāti Whātua-o-Ōrākei. Retrieved 11 August 2019.
^ "Cultural Values Assessment in Support of the Notices of Requirement for the Proposed City Rail Link Project" (PDF). Auckland Transport. Retrieved 11 August 2019.
^ "Bastion Point – The Untold Story" (Documentary). nzonscreen.com. NZ On Screen. 1999. Retrieved 16 September 2016.
^ Royal, Te Ahukaramū Charles Royal (11 July 2013). "Police cordon, Bastion Point". Te Ara – the Encyclopedia of New Zealand. Retrieved 24 May 2015.
^ "Ngati Whatua". ngatiwhatua.iwi.nz. Ngāti Whatua. Retrieved 16 September 2016.
^ "Listen Online". Irirangi. Te Whakaruruhau o Nga Reo Irirangi Māori. Retrieved 28 April 2015.
^ "Ake 1179". Te Rūnanga Ngāti Whātua. Ngāti Whātua. Retrieved 14 June 2015. Archived 22 January 2016 at the Wayback Machine
External links[edit]
Te Rūnanga o Ngāti Whātua
Ngāti Whātua, Te Ara – the Encyclopedia of New Zealand
Orakei resource kit, Waitangi Tribunal
vteList of iwi and hapūTe Tai Tokerau
Muriwhenua
Te Aupōuri
Ngāti Kahu
Ngāti Kahu ki Whangaroa
Ngāti Kurī
Te Pātū
Te Rarawa
Ngāi Takoto
Ngāpuhi
Ngāti Hine
Ngāpuhi / Ngāti Kahu ki Whaingaroa
Ngātiwai
Ngāti Whātua
Tāmaki
Marutūāhu
Ngāti Maru
Ngāti Pāoa
Ngāti Tamaterā
Ngāti Whanaunga
Ngāti Whātua
Ngāti Whātua o Kaipara
Te Uri-o-Hau
Te Roroa
Ngāti Whātua Ōrākei
Te Taoū
Te Waiohua
Te Ākitai Waiohua
Ngāti Tamaoho
Ngāti Te Ata Waiohua
Ngā Oho
Ngāti Manuhiri
Te Kawerau ā Maki
Te Patukirikiri
Ngāi Tai ki Tāmaki
Waikato Tainui
Hauraki
Marutūāhu
Ngāti Maru
Ngāti Pāoa
Ngāti Rongoū
Ngāti Tamaterā
Ngāti Whanaunga
Ngāti Hako
Ngāti Hei
Te Patukirikiri
Ngāti Porou ki Hauraki
Ngāti Porou ki Harataunga
Ngāti Pūkenga ki Waiau
Ngāi Tai ki Tāmaki
Ngāti Rāhiri Tumutumu
Ngāti Tara Tokanui
Tainui
Waikato Tainui
Ngāti Mahuta
Ngāti Te Wehi
Ngāti Maniapoto
Ngāti Paretekawa
Ngāti Raukawa
Ngāti Korokī Kahukura
Ngāti Hauā
Ngāti Hinerangi
Pouākani
Rereahu
Tauranga Moana
Waitaha-a-Hei
Ngāti Pūkenga
Ngāti Ranginui
Ngāi Te Rangi
Arawa Waka
Waitaha-a-Hei
Ngāti Pūkenga
Ngāti Mākino
Ngāti Huarere
Tapuika
Te Arawa
Ngāti Pikiao
Ngāti Rangiteaorere
Ngāti Tarāwhai
Tūhourangi
Uenuku-Kōpako
Ngāti Whakaue
Ngāti Tahu
Ngāti Kea Ngāti Tuarā
Ngāti Rongomai
Ngāti Rangiwewehi
Ngāti Rangitihi
Ngāti Tūwharetoa
Ngāti Tūrangitukua
Ngāti Hotu
Ngāti Whakahemo
Mātaatua
Ngāti Awa
Ngāti Manawa
Ngāti Whare
Whakatōhea
Te Ūpokorehe
Ngāitai
Te Whānau-ā-Apanui
Ngāi Tūhoe
Ngāti Ruapani
Ngāti Pūkenga
Ngāi Te Rangi
Te Tai Rāwhiti
Ngāriki Kaiputahi
Ngāti Porou
Te Aitanga-a-Hauiti
Te Aitanga-a-Māhaki
Rongowhakaata
Ngāi Tāmanuhiri
Tākitimu
Ngāti Kahungunu
Ngāti Kahungunu ki Te Wairoa
Ngāti Kahungunu ki Te Whanganui-a-Orotu
Ngāti Kahungunu ki Heretaunga
Ngāti Kahungunu ki Tamatea
Ngāti Kahungunu ki Tamakinui a Rua
Ngāti Kahungunu ki Wairarapa
Ngāti Rongomaiwahine
Ngāti Rakaipaaka
Maungaharuru Tangitū
Ngāti Te Whatuiāpiti
Te Wairoa
Ngāti Pāhauwera
Ngāti Hineuru
Heretaunga Tamatea
Rangitāne‡
Ngāti Ranginui
Ngāi Te Ohuake
Hauāuru
Ngāti Tama‡
Ngāti Mutunga
Te Āti Awa‡
Taranaki
Ngāti Maru
Ngāruahine
Ngāti Ruanui
Ngā Rauru
Te Āti Haunui-a-Pāpārangi
Ngāti Hau
Te Korowai o Wainuiārua
Ngāti Rangi
Ngāti Apa
Ngāti Hauiti
Te Moana o Raukawa
Rangitāne‡
Muaūpoko
Ngāti Raukawa
Ngāti Kauwhata
Ngāti Toa‡
Te Atiawa ki Whakarongotai
Te Āti Awa‡
Taranaki Whānui ki te Upoko o te Ika
Te Tau Ihu
Ngāti Toa‡
Te Atiawa o Te Waka-a-Māui
Ngāti Apa ki te Rā Tō
Rangitāne‡
Ngāti Kuia
Ngāti Rārua
Ngāti Kōata
Ngāti Tama‡
Ngāti Tūmatakōkiri
Waipounamu
Ngāi Tahu
Waitaha
Kāti Māmoe
Rēkohu
Ngāti Mutunga
Moriori
Other
Urban Māori
Ngāti Ākarana (Auckland)
Ngāti Pōneke (Wellington)
Ngāti Rānana (London)
‡ — indicates iwi located in both the North and South Islands
Authority control databases: National United StatesIsrael
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ngāti_Whātua&oldid=1312089210"
Category: Ngāti WhātuaHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse New Zealand English from October 2024All Wikipedia articles written in New Zealand EnglishArticles containing Māori-language text
This page was last edited on 18 September 2025, at 15:42 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Ngāti Whātua
6 languages
Add topic