This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
Credit: Source: Logitech
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 14, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Logitech Signature M550 Wireless Mouse
$15
$30
Save $15
$15 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
If you're looking for a portable mouse that delivers smooth tracking with excellent reliability and features, then the Logitech Signature M550 is going to be a great choice. While it's normally priced at $30, we're now seeing a sharp discount that brings it down by 50%. This is one of the best discounts on this model that we've seen, and it is an actual no-brainer at just $15. But you'll want to be quick because a promotion like this won't last long.
Small, comfortable, and now on sale
Credit: Source: Logitech
It might be hard to get excited about a mouse, but it's one of the primary ways you interact with your PC, which makes it one of the more important tools connected to your computer. And since some people spend hours on their computers each day, it's important to get something that's going to be reliable, accurate, and comfortable.
The Logitech Signature M550 is a great example, coming in a smaller size but still packed with features. You get a contoured shape, soft thumb area, and side grips made from rubber in order to keep your hand gripped to the mouse. It's also quite silent as well, with Logitech claiming 90% less 'click noise' with its SilentTouch technology.
There's also the SmartWheel that gives you excellent control when scrolling, with the ability to switch between high speed and precision movements with just a small flick. The mouse also provides excellent run time of up to two years with a single AA battery. Logitech also provides two ways to connect, with Bluetooth and Logi Bolt. The latter will be more reliable thanks to its 2.4Ghz connection, but both will work well.
Compatibility is also quite good too, and the mouse can be used with nearly any type of device, with support for Windows, macOS, Android, Linux, Chrome OS, Apple devices, and more. The best part is that this mouse isn't all that expensive right now, coming in at just $15 for a very limited time. It's great for home, office, or taking it with you on the go.
Keyboards & Mice
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 13, 2025
I used NotebookLM to learn a new graphics tool, and it was shockingly effective
Sep 12, 2025
5 expansion cards for that spare M.2 slot on your motherboard
Sep 13, 2025
5 reasons Home Assistant is all you need for your smart home
Sep 13, 2025
This is the one PC component you shouldn't cheap out on (and it's not the CPU)
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
14 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with a Raspberry Pi instead of a mini PC
6 of the coolest HACS integrations for Home Assistant users
I recommend people use these apps when moving from Windows to Linux
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.