Fast NoSQL Key-Value Database – Amazon DynamoDB – AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Amazon DynamoDB
Overview
Features
Pricing
Resources
FAQs
More
Products›
Databases›
Amazon DynamoDB
On-demand pricing reduced by 50% and global tables by up to 67%
Amazon DynamoDB
Serverless, fully managed, distributed NoSQL database with single-digit millisecond performance at any scale
Get started with DynamoDB
Try DynamoDB with AWS Free Tier
Why DynamoDB?
DynamoDB offers zero infrastructure management, zero downtime maintenance, instant scaling to any application demand, and pay-per-request billing. There are no cold starts, no version upgrades, and no maintenance windows. DynamoDB is fully managed, removing the heavy lifting of undifferentiated database management tasks such as backups, security, compliance, monitoring, and more. For globally distributed applications, DynamoDB global tables is a multi-Region, multi-active database with up to 99.999% availability and offers the highest database resilience. It supports multi-Region strong consistency ensuring your applications always stay available and always read the same data from any Region, enabling you to build zero RPO applications. DynamoDB has a broad set of security controls and compliance standards built to satisfy the requirements for governments, global banks, and other high-sensitivity organizations.
Play
Benefits of DynamoDB
Serverless
Optimize costs with a serverless, fully managed database that instantly scales to fit your applications' needs with zero infrastructure management, zero downtime maintenance, and zero maintenance windows.
Learn more
Performance at scale
Deliver applications with the same single-digit millisecond performance for your end users, whether it's across tens of thousands or hundreds of millions of simultaneous users.
Learn more
Highest application resilience
Enable apps to achieve zero RPO with global tables - multi-Region, active-active database - designed for 99.999% availability and ability to always read the latest data from any Region.
Learn more
Optimize costs
Pay only for what you use even for workloads with variable demands - and warm throughput prevents cold starts as all resources are instantaneously available.
Learn more
Interoperability across AWS
Do more with your data using built-in tools to perform analytics and AI/ML, and native integrations to manage granular permissions, perform monitoring and observability, and more.
Learn more
Scale and value of DynamoDB
1 million+
customers
½ million+
requests per second delivered for 100s of customers
200TB+
table size used by 100s of customers
25% lower cost
of equivalent database environments
Learn more »
DynamoDB solutions by industry
Financial services
Media & Entertainment
Advertising & Marketing
Retail & Wholesale
Financial services
Financial services customers choose DynamoDB for resiliency, security, performance, and scalability. DynamoDB helps customers achieve industry regulatory compliances such as SOC 1/2/3, PCI, FINMA, and ISO. Discover how DynamoDB can power your use cases such as fraud detection, messaging workflows, digital user onboarding, and more. Global tables multi-Region with strong consistency enables you to build applications with zero RPO and applications can read and write to any Region.
See use cases
Media & Entertainment
Media and Entertainment customers choose Amazon DynamoDB for scalability, performance, and resiliency. DynamoDB helps customers manage their streaming and content metadata access needs with nearly unlimited throughput. Discover how Amazon DynamoDB can power your use cases such as creating a digital human to livestream content, migrating your digital content to the cloud, and more.
See use cases
Advertising & Marketing
Advertising & Marketing customers choose Amazon DynamoDB for security, performance, and resiliency. DynamoDB helps customers achieve data fidelity by storing various marketing data such as user profiles, user events, clicks, and visited links. Discover how Amazon DynamoDB can power your use cases such as evaluating social media posts, monetizing publishing assets more effectively, real-time bidding, ad-targeting, and attribution.
See use cases
Retail & Wholesale
Retail & Wholesale customers choose Amazon DynamoDB for scalability, performance, resilience, and security. DynamoDB helps customers handle their high-traffic, extreme-scaled events seamlessly with nearly unlimited throughput. Discover how Amazon DynamoDB can power your use cases such as localizing content, building a well-architected customer data platform, deploying shopping carts, tracking inventory, and more.
See use cases
Use cases
Develop software applications
Build internet-scale applications supporting user-content metadata and caches that require high concurrency and connections for millions of users and millions of requests per second.
Create media metadata stores
Scale throughput and concurrency for media and entertainment workloads such as real-time video streaming and interactive content, and deliver lower latency with multi-Region replication across AWS Regions.
Deliver seamless retail experiences
Use design patterns for deploying shopping carts, workflow engines, inventory tracking, and customer profiles. DynamoDB supports high-traffic, extreme-scaled events and can handle millions of queries per second.
Scale gaming platforms
Focus on driving innovation with no operational overhead. Build out your game platform with player data, session history, and leaderboards for millions of concurrent users.
Achieve highest level of application resilience
Enable your applications to stay always available and always read the latest data from any Region, especially ideal for payment processing and financial services applications.
Next steps
Resources
Learn with hands-on training
Get started with DynamoDB
Documentation
Dive deep on DynamoDB
Read the documentation
Free tier
Sign up for a free account
Try for free
Console
Start building in the console
Sign in
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.