DJI's new mini drone is a powerhouse with an upgraded camera, but I have two concerns | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
DJI's new mini drone is a powerhouse with an upgraded camera, but I have two concerns
The DJI Mini 5 Pro is a sub-250g drone packing a camera with a one-inch sensor to catch all the action, but it won't be for everyone.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 11:42 a.m. PT
DJI Mini 5 Pro
ZDNET's key takeaways The DJI Mini 5 Pro is available in the UK and EU at £689/€799 respectively.Its camera has a one-inch sensor for superior shooting in low-light conditions, and the drone is packed with obstacle avoidance sensors.It's not yet available in the US, and its battery life at a theoretical runtime of 21 minutes is a lot lower than its predecessor. View now at DJI Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.The Mini Pro drones are my all-time favorite drones in the DJI lineup. Sure, I love the power and performance of the Mavic Pro line, but having a capable drone that fits into a sub-250 gram package gets around a lot of legal and legislative hurdles to flying a drone anywhere near people. DJI just unveiled the latest in its Mini line: the Mini 5 Pro. Visually, it's very much line it's predecessor, but it packs quite a few upgrades that I've been very excited to check out.
Also: The best drones you can buy: Expert testedFirst off, the camera gets a big upgrade. It's easy to think of DJI as a drone company, but it's also a world leader in camera and gimbal technology. Drones are fun, but without a camera on a stabilizing gimbal, the fun would soon wear off.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS DJI Mini 5 Pro The DJI Mini 5 Pro packs flagship features such as a 1-inch sensor and all-round obstecle avoidance sensors, including LiDAR that works in low light, into a packages that weighs under 250g.
details
View at Dji Luckily, the camera on the Mini 5 Pro is a huge leap forward to what we've expected from small drones. Packing one-inch sensors with a 50-megapixel resolution capable of 14 stops of dynamic range, it's ideal for sunrises, sunsets, and even nighttime shooting. The lens is a 24mm equivalent, making it ideal for landscape shooting. But for those who like to punch in on the action, the Mini 5 Pro has a new 48mm Med-Tele mode with higher digital zoom resolution.
Take off of the DJI Mini 5Pro. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET The video you get out of the drone is superb, at 4K/60fps HDR quality, perfect for anything short of professional cinematography. If you're into slow motion shots, you get the ability to capture in 4K/120fps. The gimbal also features up to 225° of roll rotation, allowing for true portrait shooting, a mode that Instagrammers will no doubt put to good use.Also: I've never lost a drone in over a decade of flying them - here's my secretMost drones end their lives in collisions, especially when flying at night, and DJI is doing its best to make crashes a thing of the past. Packed into the shell of the Mini 5 Pro are an array of sensors that give it a complete omnidirectional vision sensing system with a forward-facing LiDAR that can see in the low light conditions, fisheye lenses on the sensors front and rear, and binocular lenses and a 3D infrared sensor on the bottom. These combined give the Mini 5 Pro an unprecedented ability to sense and avoid obstacle in normal flight and during autonomous return to home (RTH) flights.
Pro features in a palm-sized drone. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET Speaking of RTH, DJI has made the mode that kicks in when the battery is low (or if the drone loses connection) even better. The drone uses the LiDAR sensor in low light conditions, and when the light is good, it makes use of real-time vision positioning and map construction technologies, combined with memorizing flight paths to allow it to return to home to locations without satellite signals, such as balconies.I only got my hands on the DJI Mini 5 Pro yesterday, and I had to wait for the storms to pass before flying. What flight time I do have under my belt for this drone suggests that it's a real powerhouse. The weather I was flying in wasn't the best, and the 39 mph wind gusts were above the wind rating for the drone, but I could handle it well, flying within a couple of feet of my face in order to take the shots.
I was carrying out the test flights in high winds. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET The camera is, as I'd expect, excellent, although I've not had a huge amount of time to push it to the extremes, I can already tell that this camera is superior to the one of the Mini 4 Pro. Not by a huge amount, but for those shooting in sub-optimal conditions, it's going to make a difference. My one complaint is with its battery life. Each standard battery is rated for 21 minutes of runtime, which, compared to the 34 minutes that DJI claimed for the Mini 4 Pro, is quite a decrease, especially when you consider these lab numbers are impossibly optimistic compared to real-world runtime.For the Mini 4 Pro, I'd get a maximum of 28 minutes runtime, and with the Mini 5 Pro, I'm getting about 15 minutes. That means that even with the three batteries in the Fly More Combo kit, I can't get an hour of flying without recharging. ZDNET's buying adviceThe DJI Mini 5 Pro is loaded with upgrades to its predecessor, and has a truly fantastic camera system. But the reduction in battery life is something to note. Additionally, its unavailability in the US is a limiting factor for North American consumers. There's no word on if/when the Mini 5 Pro will make it to the US, but in the interim, those looking for a capable sub-250g drone should look at the Mini 4 Pro, which offers a great camera on a platform that delivers excellent flight time.  The DJI Mini 5 Pro is priced in the UK and EU at £689/€799 for the drone, £869/€999 for the DJI Mini 5 Pro Fly More Combo with the DJI RC-N3 remote, and £979/€1,129 for the DJI Mini 5 Pro Fly More Combo with the DJI RC2 remote. Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 55+ of our favorite discounts before October
AirPods Pro 3 review: The ANC is so good I'm using these instead of AirPods Max on flights
I found a 4K action camera that competes with my GoPro (and it's on sale)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use