TradeTalks Newsletter Archive | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
TradeTalks Newsletter Archive
Browse the latest editions and the archives of our TradeTalks newsletter below.
Clear all
Clear all
Filter by
Topic:
Anti Financial Crime
Artificial Intelligence
Banking
Bitcoin
Blockchain
Bonds
Cloud
Commodities
Companies
Cryptocurrencies
Cybersecurity
Data and Analytics
Digital Assets
Earnings
Economy
Energy
ESG
ETFs
Financial Advisors
Financial Risk Management
FinTech
Gold
Healthcare
Indexes
Innovation
Investing
IPOs
Jobs & Unemployment
Machine Learning
Market Infrastructure
Market Regulation
Markets
Mergers & Acquisitions
Options
Personal Finance
Policy & Regulation
Politics
Quantum Computing
Renewable Energy
Retirement
Risk & Compliance
Stocks
Sustainability
Taxes
Technology
World Markets
Sort By:
Name
Last updated
3 Forces Driving the Energy Transition
renewable energy,energy,digital assets,artificial intelligence ,policy & regulation
26 June 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the next steps of the GENIUS Act and Brian Nelson, Renewables Segment Leader at ABB, outlines the three forces fueling the energy transition.
3 Key Factors Driving Institutional Adoption of Digital Assets
digital assets,artificial intelligence ,healthcare,data and analytics,market regulation,market infrastructure
17 July 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores how data-driven insights can inform smarter public spending, better policy, and stronger health outcomes across the U.S., and Tim Kwok, Head of Sales for Americas at Talos, highlights the trends that will drive institutional adoption of digital assets.
3 Themes Growth and Tech Investors May Want to Consider in 2023
investing,markets,stocks,etfs,technology
17 January 2023
Jeff Spiegel, Head of U.S. iShares Megatrend and International ETFs at BlackRock, shares the three themes within growth and technology that are “well-positioned to shine” in the new year.
Addressing Privacy Challenges Associated with Artificial Intelligence Development
artificial intelligence ,technology
31 July 2024
We speak with Ronen Cohen, VP of Strategy at Duality, about the key privacy challenges associated with artificial intelligence development.
Assessing Data Privacy and Cybersecurity Risk
cybersecurity,markets
16 October 2024
We spotlight emerging trends in compliance and regulation and spotlights Jim Lewis, who shares his insights on how data governance will evolve.
Biggest Crypto Trends to Watch for in 2024
cryptocurrencies,bitcoin
20 December 2023
Sergey Nazarov, co-founder of Chainlink, joined TradeTalks to share the biggest crypto trends to watch for in 2024.
Biggest Factor Impacting Current Economic Climate
economy
02 August 2024
This week, we speak with Tony Welch, Chief Investment Office at SignatureFD, about what's driving the current economic climate and what key factors will shape the investment landscape in the coming months.
Bolstering the Resiliency of the National Healthcare Infrastructure
healthcare,markets,technology
20 August 2024
HeartPoint Global Chairman & CEO Seth Bogner discusses the top challenges facing the U.S. healthcare system, ways to bolster the resiliency of the national healthcare infrastructure and promising solutions being developed to address the need for equitable preventative healthcare.
Building a Resilient Supply Chain for Critical Minerals
energy,digital assets,market infrastructure,gold,cybersecurity,cryptocurrencies,policy & regulation
23 June 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explore the future and security of the digital asset ecosystem and Roshan Pujari, Founder & CEO, Stardust Power, highlights the importance of building a resilient, domestic supply chain for critical minerals.
Capturing Consensus
digital assets,blockchain,cryptocurrencies,artificial intelligence
19 May 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks is covering Consensus 2025, a global event focused on blockchain and cryptocurrency innovation. We also speak with Dr. Severence MacLaughlin, CEO of Delorean AI, about what can companies and policymakers do today to prepare for the next wave of AI innovation.
Commercial Real Estate Investment Outlook for 2023
investing
24 January 2023
We speak with Aaron Jodka, National Director of Capital Markets Research for Colliers, about the state of commercial real estate investing.
Cutting Through Complexity
digital assets,cybersecurity,technology
03 February 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks delves into a new report that measures the cost of complexity across the financial system and Roger Bayston, Head of Digital Assets at Franklin Templeton, shares his outlook for digital assets.
Defining a Responsible AI Standard
market regulation,market infrastructure,markets,artificial intelligence ,data and analytics
05 May 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the innovation in gaming, regulatory framework, market impact and potential future developments, and Scott Zoldi, Chief Analytics Officer at FICO, shares his perspective on how to define a responsible AI standard.
Democratizing Fraud Prevention
anti financial crime ,digital assets,markets,world markets
07 August 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores how the electronics industry is being reshaped in real time and Parilee Wang, Chief Product Officer at Alloy, shares her insights on how to democratize fraud prevention.
Discussing Crypto Regulatory Framework With Astra Protocol Advisor Mick Mulvaney
cryptocurrencies
04 April 2023
We speak with Astra Protocol Advisor and former acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney about how a regulatory framework for cryptocurrency and digital assets can help solve industry challenges.
Emerging RIA Trends to Watch
personal finance,financial advisors
05 September 2023
We speak with Rebecca Daves, Consultant at Advisor Growth Strategies, about the emerging Registered Investment Advisor RIA trends and how artificial intelligence is impacting the industry.
Ethical and Responsible Use of AI and Data Governance
artificial intelligence ,digital assets,data and analytics,cybersecurity,renewable energy
18 February 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks delves into the ethical and responsible use of AI and data governance, and Nadine ChakarManaging Director, Global Head of DTCC Digital Assets, shares her insights into how the digital assets space will evolve over the next decade.
Forces Shaping the Global Markets
technology,digital assets,cybersecurity,energy,cryptocurrencies,market regulation,policy & regulation
20 December 2024
Nasdaq TradeTalks reflects on the themes shaping the dynamic nature of global markets and the continuous evolution of industries and Andy Baehr, Head of Product at CoinDesk Indices, shares his insights on the outlook of cryptocurrency.
Global Investment Opportunities in the Energy Transition
investing,energy
11 October 2023
We speak with Frances Aderhold, Sustainable Investing Research Analyst at Fiduciary Trust International, about what the energy transition is and the opportunities it presents to investors.
Have We Reached the End for NFTs?
cryptocurrencies,markets
01 November 2023
We speak with Andy Stief, director of Product Marketing at Kraken, about the performance of NFTs in 2023 and why investors should still care about them.
How AI Is Changing Retail
technology,companies ,artificial intelligence
22 March 2024
We speak with Anjee Solanki, National Director of Retail Services and Practice Groups for the U.S., about the trends shaping retail and spending today and how new technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), will impact the retail industry.
How AI Is Shaping the Future of Agriculture
digital assets,bitcoin,artificial intelligence ,sustainability,investing,markets,bonds
28 April 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the institutional shifts beyond bitcoin if regulatory tailwinds continue to strengthen and Garyn Angel, CEO of Farm ED, shares his insights on the intersection of AI and agriculture.
How CFOs Are Adopting Automation and AI Solutions
artificial intelligence ,technology
17 July 2024
We speak with Greg Person, SVP, Sales & Account Management at Kyriba about how Chief Financial Officers (CFO) are approaching automation and AI solutions.
How Digital Assets Are Reshaping Traditional Investment Strategies
digital assets,world markets,cryptocurrencies,etfs
23 May 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks reviews critical themes that emerged from Consensus by CoinDesk and Christian Salomone, Chief Investment Officer, Ballast Rock Private Wealth, shares how investors can use ETFs to mitigate risk in this market environment.
How Emerging Technologies are Transforming Power Demand
New
energy,policy & regulation,ipos
04 September 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks highlights key advancements in climate technology and Brent Burnett, Managing Director and Head of Infrastructure & Real Assets at Hamilton Lane, shares what areas within the power industry are attractive in the short and long term.
How Emerging Technologies Will Transform the Automotive Industry
artificial intelligence ,energy,renewable energy,policy & regulation,cryptocurrencies,indexes
03 March 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores complex global challenges and the solutions that will contribute to a safer, cleaner and smarter world. Also, C.J. Finn, US Automotive Industry Leader at PwC, shares how emerging technologies will transform the auto industry.
How Financial Fraud Impacts Investors
personal finance,investing
24 May 2023
We speak with Andrew Crowell, Financial Advisor and Vice Chairman of Wealth Management at D.A. Davidson, about the top threats to financial wellness and why financial fraud is on the rise.
How Generative AI Can Play a Role in the Metaverse
technology,artificial intelligence
11 April 2023
We speak with Mathieu Nouzareth, the US CEO of The Sandbox, on how generative artificial intelligence AI, a type of AI technology that can produce various types of content like text can help shape experiences and environments inside the metaverse, as well as some of the current generative AI applications.
How Investors Can Prepare for Cannonball, Curveball and Windfall Events in Retirement
personal finance,retirement,investing
08 August 2023
We speak with Lena Haas, head of Wealth Management Advice & Solutions at Edward Jones, about the different cannonball, curveball and windfall events that could happen in one’s retirement journey and the course corrections that investors can take to improve their situation.
How Leaders View the Potential of the Metaverse
technology
28 February 2023
Sébastien Borget, co-founder and COO of The Sandbox, shares what investors should keep in mind as the metaverse becomes a hotter topic among business leaders and policymakers.
How Long Will Rates Stay Elevated?
markets,economy,policy & regulation
07 March 2023
Biondo Investment Advisors CEO Joseph Biondo shares where he thinks opportunities are for investors and how long he thinks rates will stay elevated.
How Market Structure and Technology Are Evolving
New
market infrastructure,digital assets,ipos ,healthcare,artificial intelligence ,market regulation
11 September 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks delves into how market structure and technology are evolving, and Steven Dickens, CEO and Principal Analyst of HyperFRAME Research, shares how AI is prompting the healthcare industry to rearchitect their entire tech stacks.
How Strategic Investments Can Help Foster Economic Stability
markets,investing,commodities ,artificial intelligence ,technology
09 December 2024
Nasdaq TradeTalks looks at how strategic investments can help foster economic stability. We also hear from Allen Taylor, Managing Partner at Endeavor Catalyst, about opportunities for investors in emerging markets.
How the Future of IT Is Being Redefined
artificial intelligence ,quantum computing,ipos ,healthcare,etfs
31 March 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores how different types of investors are approaching the IPO market and Bill Briggs, Chief Technology Officer at Deloitte, shares how the future of IT is being redefined.
How the Investor Demographic Is Changing
investing,markets,personal finance
25 April 2023
We speak with Lacy Garcia, Founder and CEO of Willow about how investor demographics is changing in the U.S., as well as what the next new investor majority will look like.
How to Spot and Avoid the Next Crash
economy,markets
21 June 2023
We speak with Dr. Linda Yueh CBE, Adjunct Professor of Economics at London Business School about financial crashes and what investors may want to know about them. Dr. Yueh shares the three phases of every financial crisis, and how we can spot and avoid the next crash.
How Will the Rise of AI Impact White-Collar Jobs?
artificial intelligence ,technology,jobs & unemployment
07 July 2023
We speak with Christos A. Makridis, CTO of www.LivingOpera.org about why Artificial Intelligence AI and other emerging technologies have the potential to complement existing white-collar jobs, and how businesses and investors can best prepare for the rise of AI.
Implementing Effective AI Governance and Compliance
artificial intelligence ,companies
19 July 2024
We speak with Ronen Cohen, VP of Strategy at Duality, about the key privacy challenges associated with artificial intelligence development.
Insights from Rally Innovation
markets,economy,artificial intelligence
09 September 2024
TradeTalks highlights the key takeaways from Rally Innovation, Bitcoin's reaction to the Fed and the evolution of the AI ecosystem in finance. We also hear from Sandip Bhagat, CIO of Whittier Trust, about why the markets have been so resilient this year.
Insuring the AI Economy
artificial intelligence ,commodities ,economy,digital assets,markets
14 August 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the key drivers of demand and volatility in the precious metals space, and George Lewin-Smith, CEO of Testudo, discusses insuring the AI economy.
Is the Recession Postponed or Canceled?
economy,markets
20 September 2023
For more than a year now, economists have been waiting for a recession to happen. We speak with Jon Maier, Chief Investment Officer at Global X ETFs, about whether we can still expect a recession to happen and what the latest data is telling us about the state of the economy.
Key Takeaways from Cybersecurity Awareness Month
cybersecurity,artificial intelligence ,machine learning,bonds
28 October 2024
TradeTalks delves into the key takeaways from Cybersecurity Awareness Month and highlights Aaron Pinnick, Senior Manager, Thought Leadership, ACA Group, who shares how to build strong data governance practices.
Key Trends for 2025 and CES Insights
technology,markets,artificial intelligence ,cybersecurity,economy,fintech
13 January 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks is kicking off the new year at CES in Las Vegas and we hear from Alex Gunz, Fund Manager at Heptagon Capital, about the key trends for 2025 and beyond.
Leading the Next Wave of Commerce
artificial intelligence ,cybersecurity,policy & regulation,market infrastructure
09 June 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the crucial role of cross-border joint ventures and alliances, global trade, localization and digital ecosystems. Ron Earley, CEO of Greywolfe Investing, also shares how emerging technologies are poised to impact e-commerce.
Looking Ahead to 2024 Tax Season
taxes,personal finance
17 May 2023
We speak with Mark Steber, Chief Tax Information Officer at Jackson Hewitt about what happens if you missed the tax deadline and how to better prepare for next year’s tax season. Steber also shares the biggest tax trends this year.
Mainnet Musings and Keeping Data Secure
cybersecurity,cryptocurrencies,blockchain,market regulation,policy & regulation,politics
07 October 2024
TradeTalks highlights insights from Mainnet 2024 and spotlights Glenn Kurban, Partner, Data & Analytics at Capco, who discusses the importance of keeping data secure.
Managing Organizational Cyber Risk and Modern Security Solutions
cybersecurity,healthcare,artificial intelligence ,machine learning,digital assets,market regulation,policy & regulation
21 October 2024
Amid Cybersecurity Awareness Month, TradeTalks looks at how to manage organizational cyber risk and modern security solutions and highlights Ben Turner, Founder and CEO of Verituity, who shares some cybersecurity best practices companies should consider implementing.
Nasdaq Q-50: The Next Generation of High-Growth Companies
indexes,investing,stocks,companies
22 August 2023
We speak with Sanjana Prabhakar, Index Research Specialist with Nasdaq Investment Intelligence, about the Nasdaq Q50 Index, which is made up of companies that are next in line to join the Nasdsaq-100 Index.
Navigating the Energy Transition and Power Grid Complexity
energy,markets
23 September 2024
TradeTalks explores the complexity of the power grid and highlights Mekala Krishnan, Partner at McKinsey Global Institute, who shares her insights on navigating the energy transition.
New Horizons for Climate Action
energy,sustainability,esg
16 September 2024
TradeTalks explores the latest developments with climate technology and highlights Tyler Rosenlicht, Head of Natural Resource Equities at Cohen & Steers, who shares his outlook for the energy market and how should investors be thinking about their energy strategies.
One of the Most Promising Frontiers for the Future of Finance
digital assets,cryptocurrencies,world markets,healthcare,markets,policy & regulation
24 July 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores what consumer discretionary categories are performing well and where spend is being cut back. Paul Grewal, Chief Legal Officer at Coinbase, also shares why tokenization is one of the most promising frontiers for the future of finance.
Realizing the Benefits of AI
artificial intelligence ,cybersecurity,markets,blockchain
10 March 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores how businesses can build sustainable compliance and risk mitigation strategies, and China Widener, Vice Chair and U.S. Technology, Media and Telecommunications Industry Leader at Deloitte, discusses how AI will continue to evolve in 2025 and beyond.
Reshaping How Businesses Compete in the Digital Economy
digital assets,artificial intelligence ,sustainability,policy & regulation,markets
02 June 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores why stablecoins are poised to play a central role in shaping the future of capital markets and Manish Sood, CEO & Founder of Reltio, explains how AI is reshaping how businesses compete in the digital economy.
Resiliency Through Economic and Geopolitical Uncertainty
markets,cybersecurity,policy & regulation,digital assets
17 March 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks looks the need for a dynamic cybersecurity space and Scott Likens, Chief AI Engineering Officer at PwC, shares what companies can do today to prepare for the next wave of AI innovation.
Responsible, Ethical and Transparent AI Practices
artificial intelligence ,energy,markets,etfs
27 January 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores responsible, ethical, and transparent AI practices and Dave Cherney, Clean Energy Policy Leader at PA Consulting, shares his insights on the outlook for clean energy.
Risks and Opportunities in Crypto for 2023
cryptocurrencies,markets,bitcoin,investing
31 January 2023
Thomas Perfumo, Head of Strategy at Kraken Digital Asset Exchange, shares what shaped the crypto space in 2022 and what investors may want to know about the industry going into the new year.
Scenes from SmartCon and Investor Sentiment Insights
blockchain,digital assets,technology,investing,economy,politics,artificial intelligence
04 November 2024
Nasdaq TradeTalks broadcasts from SmartCon 2024 by Chainlink in Hong Kong and we hear from Alex Coffey, Senior Trading Strategist at Charles Schwab, about what's diving the changes in investor sentiment.
Shaping the Future of Global Business
artificial intelligence ,investing,technology,economy,etfs
09 September 2024
TradeTalks highlights the latest trends in iGaming, the future of interest rate cuts, the factors driving demand for actively-managed ETFs. We also hear from Martin Rand, CEO of Pactum AI, on how we regulate AI in a meaningful way.
Shaping the Next Decade of Economic Opportunity
policy & regulation,technology,ipos ,market infrastructure,cryptocurrencies,artificial intelligence
24 March 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores policy, technology and capital flow are shaping the next decade of economic progress and Rebecca Lindland, Managing Director for Allison Worldwide, highlights the opportunities to build a more sustainable and smarter world.
The Big Emerging Investment Theme
investing,artificial intelligence
27 September 2023
We speak with Jack Miller, head of Global Execution Services at Baird, about the big emerging theme for investors and what they should know about it. Miller also shares how markets are performing despite macro uncertainty and AI’s implications for trading and market structure.
The Changing Landscape of Employment
jobs & unemployment,companies
12 March 2024
We speak with Amy Glaser, SVP at Adecco, about the trends shaping the employment space today and the outlook of the industry. Glaser also shares when we can expect to see a rebound in hiring.
The Commercialization of Defense Innovation
innovation,world markets,investing,markets,options
08 April 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the growth of defense tech and Kevin Davitt, Head of Index Options Content at Nasdaq, outlines recent options trends and why ongoing education is critical for investors.
The Convergence of Tradfi and Digital Assets
digital assets,cryptocurrencies,policy & regulation,market regulation,cybersecurity,technology
18 November 2024
Nasdaq TradeTalks wraps up coverage of the Singapore Fintech Festival and Irina Berkon, CFO of Metallicus, shares her insights on the outlook for decentralized finance.
The Entrepreneurial Spirit of the RIA Community
data and analytics,innovation,policy & regulation,cryptocurrencies
03 July 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores how innovation is redefining financial protection across industries and Brian Francetich, President & Partner of Golsan Scruggs, shares his insights on how the RIA space will evolve.
The Ever-Changing Landscape of AI Safety
artificial intelligence ,market infrastructure,markets,digital assets
14 April 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the ever-changing landscape of AI safety and security in a dynamic regulatory landscape, and Avaneesh Marwaha, CEO of Litera, shares his insights on how legal technology will continue to evolve over the next decade.
The Future of Fintech
fintech,blockchain,artificial intelligence ,digital assets,market regulation
11 November 2024
Nasdaq TradeTalks covers the Singapore Fintech Festival for the seventh year in a row, focusing on the insights that will frame 2025, and Joel Simkins, CEO of XST Capital Group, shares his insights on the iGaming industry.
The Future of Infrastructure
energy,investing,world markets,technology
25 January 2024
We speak with Sadek Wahba, Global Advisory Council for the Wilson Center, about the future of infrastructure and the importance of infrastructure investment. Wahba also shares what investors may want to understand about green energy investments.
The Future of the Office
companies ,jobs & unemployment
04 March 2024
We speak with International Workplace Group CEO & Founder Mark Dixon about the trends shaping office spaces today and what the future of the office looks like.
The Importance of Being a Continuous Learner for Financial Professionals
financial advisors
13 June 2023
We speak with Ryan Sullivan, Vice President and Managing Director of Applied Insights at Hartford Funds, about the importance of financial education for financial professionals and an area that financial professionals should focus on this year.
The Importance of Investing in Infrastructure
investing,energy,policy & regulation
13 September 2023
We speak with Sadek Wahba, Member of President Biden’s National Infrastructure Advisory Council and the Chair of the Wilson Center’s Wahba Institute for Strategic Competition, about what investors may want to understand about the state of U.S. and global infrastructure today and why it is more important than ever before to invest in infrastructure.
The Key Drivers of Critical Materials Demand
artificial intelligence ,politics,energy,markets
16 December 2024
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the key drivers of critical materials demand and Melissa Di Donato, Chairman and CEO of Kyriba, shares her insights on proposed tariffs, the strength of the dollar and the outlook for the markets in 2025.
The Market Opportunity for Sustainability
sustainability,energy,esg,technology
30 September 2024
TradeTalks highlights the renewed interest in nuclear energy and Tony Perrotta, Sustainability and Regenerative Economy Expert at PA Consulting, shares his insights on the current market opportunity for sustainability and the technologies shaping the future of sustainability.
The Next Frontier in the Retirement Landscape
retirement,personal finance
04 October 2023
We speak with Joel Dickson, Global Head of Advice Methodology at Vanguard, who shares what may be the next frontier in the retirement landscape and why he thinks that positive saving behaviors will continue to trend.
The Pace of Institutional Adoption of Digital Assets
digital assets,market regulation,artificial intelligence ,policy & regulation,technology
17 January 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores why user experience is a critical factor for the adoption of AI and digital assets. Lee Bratcher, Co-Founder & President of Texas Blockchain Council, also shares his insights on the outlook for blockchain.
The Potential Market and Policy Trends Under a Trump Administration
markets,policy & regulation,cryptocurrencies,etfs
25 November 2024
Nasdaq TradeTalks looks at what catalysts are impacting the top performers in crypto and momentum behind these assets. Sheri Jones, Founder & CEO of SureImpact, also shares how data-driven intelligence will help transform social impact and drive growth.
The Potential of Blockchain
blockchain,energy,renewable energy,market infrastructure,technology,innovation
26 February 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the potential of blockchain and why having a skilled workforce is crucial for the energy transition. Gary Shapiro, CEO and Vice Chair of the Consumer Technology Association, also shares his takeaways from CES.
The Role AI Plays in the Ability to Detect and Prevent Fraud
cryptocurrencies,artificial intelligence ,market regulation,policy & regulation,markets
10 February 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the ways financial institutions can demonstrate effective compliance governance and Rennick Palley, Founding Partner at Stratos, shares his insights on the future of crypto.
The Transformative Benefits of Deploying on Blockchain
blockchain,digital assets,cybersecurity,market infrastructure,policy & regulation
10 July 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores how human capital and emerging technologies will determine the future of national and cybersecurity. John Wu, President of Ava Labs, also highlights the 3 key trends driving institutional adoption of blockchain.
The Use of Artificial Intelligence for Tax Purposes
artificial intelligence ,taxes,personal finance
09 May 2023
We speak with Jeff Saviano, Global Tax Innovation Leader at EY and MIT Connection Science Fellow, about how artificial intelligence AI can be leveraged to improve tax functions.
Top Financial Issues Americans are Facing Today
personal finance,investing
22 November 2023
We speak with Vanessa Okwuraiwe, principal at Edward Jones, about why it’s important for Americans to learn about finances earlier in life, and the top financial topics Americans find themselves struggling with.
Top Predictions in the Web3 Space
technology,companies ,artificial intelligence
30 August 2023
We speak with Eric Pulier, founder and CEO of Vatom, a leading Web3 technology and engagement company, about what investors may want to know about the relationship between artificial intelligence (AI) and Web3.
Top Trends Shaping Dealmaking in the RIA Space
financial advisors,mergers & acquisitions,economy
06 June 2023
We speak with John Furey, founder of Advisor Growth Strategies, about why he expects mergers and acquisition M&A deal structures in the registered investment advisory RIA space to continue to evolve, as well as the top trends shaping dealmaking.
Top Trends Shaping Work and Recruiting in Financial Services
companies ,jobs & unemployment
18 July 2023
We speak with Julie Genjac, Vice President and Managing Director of Applied Insights at Hartford Funds, about what financial services firms are looking for in their next class of talent, along with the top trends shaping work and recruiting in financial services.
Turning a Waste Problem into Bankable Assets
New
sustainability,financial risk management
18 September 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores why companies are embedding climate action into governance, capital planning, and digital systems. Jason Dodier, Co-Founder & CCO of Grain Ecosystem, also shares how to grow and deploy waste-to-value projects.
Understanding the Buzz Around ChatGPT and Generative AI
artificial intelligence ,technology,markets,investing
28 March 2023
We speak with Dr. Muddu Sudhakar, CEO of Aisera, to understand the hype around ChatGPT and generative artificial intelligence (AI) and their potentials.
Understanding the Shift in Consumer Behavior
economy,digital assets,cryptocurrencies,market regulation,market infrastructure,artificial intelligence ,risk & compliance
04 August 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the intersection of emerging crypto legislation, digital asset market evolution, and infrastructure readiness. Chris Dearborn, Managing Director on the Nasdaq Market Intelligence Desk, also analyzes why consumer spending behavior is shifting and what it means for companies.
Understanding the Shifts in the Metals and Mining Space
blockchain,digital assets,innovation,policy & regulation
12 May 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the future of digital assets, crypto regulation and policy. We also hear from Lewis Black, CEO of Almonty Industries, on the outlook for the metals and mining space.
Unleashing Green Hydrogen Demand
investing
05 June 2024
We speak with Andy Marsh, CEO of Plug Power, about the biggest trends shaping the green hydrogen industry and how the industry will evolve over the next ten years.
Ushering in a New Era for Nuclear Energy
energy,renewable energy,stocks,economy,cryptocurrencies,risk & compliance
16 June 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks delves into the increased demand for alternative investment strategies and John Vonglis, Executive Director of Global Government Affairs at Nano Nuclear Energy, shares his outlook for nuclear energy.
Wealth Management Trends in 2023
financial advisors,personal finance,mergers & acquisitions
14 March 2023
We speak with Advisor Growth Strategies Principal Brandon Kawal about what to watch in the registered investment advisor (RIA) and wealth management space and what’s expected in the coming years.
What Can Investors Expect to See at CES 2023?
technology,investing,companies
04 January 2023
We speak with CTA President and CEO Gary Shapiro about what the tech industry can expect to see in 2023 amid ongoing global challenges.
What China's Slowdown Means for Investors
world markets,investing
17 October 2023
We speak with Louis Navellier, Chairman and Founder of Navellier & Associates, about what’s led to China’s showdown and the investing opportunities and challenges it presents.
What Matters When It Comes to Your Finances
personal finance,investing
30 May 2023
We speak with Stuart Ritter, CFP, Insights Director at T. Rowe Price about what investors should keep in mind when it comes to their finances and how consumers can best position their investments.
What Should Investors Understand About the WiFi Industry?
technology,investing
22 November 2023
We speak with David Henry, President and General Manager of Connected Home Products and Services at NETGEAR, about the WiFi industry and what the next generation of WiFi looks like.
What the Fed Will Want to See in the Data
New
ipos ,cybersecurity,options,economy
21 August 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores the methodologies of ethical hackers and building a resilient cybersecurity culture. Michael Normyle, U.S. Economist & Senior Director at Nasdaq, also shares his insights on what will the Fed need to see in the data to justify cutting interest rates.
What to Know About Distressed Securities
markets,investing,companies
27 June 2023
We speak with Schultze Asset Management Founder George Schultze about what investors may want to understand about distressed securities and under what circumstances they should consider them.
What to Know About Investments in Crypto Infrastructure
cryptocurrencies,markets,technology
16 August 2023
We speak with Dan Edlebeck, head of Growth at Phi Labs, about why investments in the infrastructure in the crypto and blockchain spaces are critical. Edlebeck also shares where investments in the digital assets space are currently being deployed.
What to Know About Space Investing
investing,markets,technology
07 February 2023
Chad Anderson, Space X Investor & Managing Partner of Space Capital, shares why he thinks the next two years will be an “attractive time” to start investing in the space industry, and what investors should keep in mind before investing.
What to Know as More ETF Products Come to Market
etfs,markets,investing
26 July 2023
We speak with Matt Lewis, Head of ETF Implementation and Capital Markets at American Century, about ETF capital markets and the different layers of ETF liquidity. Lewis also talks about what investors should understand about newer and lower volume ETFs and the latest trends in the ETF space.
What Will Impact Your Financial Decisions in 2023?
personal finance,markets
16 February 2023
We speak with Erin Wood, senior vice president of Financial Planning & Advanced Solutions at Carson Group about the ways emotions and learned behaviors play a role in how we make financial decisions.
What's Driving the Price of Gold?
gold,commodities ,markets
24 October 2023
We speak with Ruth Crowell, CEO of LBMA, about the gold market and the trends that impact it. Crowell also shares what the gold market will look like for the remainder of the year.
What's Shaping Innovation in the Digital Gaming Landscape?
New
digital assets,policy & regulation,economy,options
28 August 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks looks at how legislative priorities, regulatory frameworks and commercial strategies are driving U.S. competitiveness. Tom Shea, Americas Crypto and Digital Asset Tax Leader at EY, also shares technology-based approaches that simplify tax compliance for clients.
What’s Next for The Fed?
economy,markets
03 May 2023
Steve Wyett, Chief Investment Strategist of BOK Financial, shares what the Federal Reserve may be watching ahead of its next meeting in May, and what to know about the banking industry.
Why Financial Literacy Is More Essential Than Ever
personal finance,investing
18 April 2023
We speak with International Assets Advisory (IAA) CEO Ed Cofrancesco on why financial literacy is more important than ever, along with what topics and trends investors should pay attention to this year.
Why Identity Is the True Perimeter of Enterprise Security
cybersecurity,risk & compliance,bonds,fintech,artificial intelligence
21 April 2025
Nasdaq TradeTalks explores why identity is the true perimeter of enterprise security and Matt Fitzpatrick, CEO of Invisible Technologies, shares the biggest trends shaping the future of artificial intelligence modeling.
Why Tech Could Continue to Lead the Pack
technology,healthcare,energy
08 August 2024
In this issue of the TradeTalks newsletter, we highlight the latest trends in health care, the future of B2B identity ecosystem and why tech could continue to lead the pack.
Why the Adoption of AI Is Critical for Banks
artificial intelligence ,banking
07 November 2023
We speak with Alexandra Mousavizadeh, co-founder and CEO of Evident, about how banks are leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) and why it is important for them to invest into this technology.
Why You May Not Want to Overlook International Investments
investing,world markets,markets
21 March 2023
We speak with Founder of Strategic Wealth Capital Adrianne Yamaki, about why investors may want to consider diversifying their portfolios by owning companies outside of the U.S.
Show:
10
Showing 1 - 10 of 100
No Results Found
TradeTalks Newsletter
Sign up for the TradeTalks newsletter to receive your weekly insights on the latest trends shaping the markets. Delivered Wednesdays.
Sign up for our newsletter.
Where the voices of the market meet
Nasdaq TradeTalks
From global market strategy and portfolio management to emerging technologies and the evolving regulatory environment, TradeTalks explores the forces that are shaping the global markets. Broadcasting live from Nasdaq MarketSite and beyond, our series features engaging conversations with top industry leaders.
Learn More ->
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
My Quotes
My Quotes
My European Quotes
Watchlist
Portfolio
Add/Edit Symbols
View as Table
Add symbols now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Stocks, Funds, ETFs and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Instruments
View as Table
Add instruments now or see the quotes that matter to you, anywhere on Nasdaq.com. Start browsing Shares, Indexes, ETP and more asset classes.
/
Add/Edit Symbols
Edit Watchlist
Your Watchlist is empty.
Add/Edit Symbols
Create your Watchlist to save your favorite quotes on Nasdaq.com. Log in or create a free account to get started.
/
Outsmart the market with Smart Portfolio analytical tools powered by TipRanks. Go to Smart Portfolio
Back
Add a symbol to your watchlist
Most Active
Data is currently not available
Edit My Quotes
Add up to 25 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to My Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Edit My European Quotes
Add up to 25 instruments
To add instruments:
Type a instrument or company name. When the instrument you want to add appears, add it to My European Quotes by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple instruments separated by spaces.
These instruments will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Your symbols have been updated
You'll now be able to see real-time price and activity for your symbols on the My Quotes of Nasdaq.com.
Continue
Data is currently not available
Edit Watchlist
Add up to 20 symbols
To add symbols:
Type a symbol or company name. When the symbol you want to add appears, add it to Watchlist by selecting it and pressing Enter/Return.
Copy and paste multiple symbols separated by spaces.
These symbols will be available throughout the site during your session.
Save data
Data is currently not available
Opt in to Smart Portfolio
We are currently experiencing technical difficulties, please try again.
Smart Portfolio is supported by our partner TipRanks. By connecting my portfolio to TipRanks Smart Portfolio I agree to their Terms of Use.
Submit
Cancel
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies