Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science) job with ShanghaiTech University | 12841636
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
Employer
ShanghaiTech University
Location
Shanghai (CN)
Salary
Competitive salary
Closing date
25 Aug 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Computing,
Mathematics
Job Type
Faculty Member
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Company
Job Details
School of Information Science and Technology(SIST)
Academic Disciplines:
ShanghaiTech University invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions as its core founding team in the School of Information Science and Technology (SIST). We seek candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated strong potentials in all cutting-edge research areas of information science and technology. They must be fluent in English. English-based overseas academic training or background is highly desired.
ShanghaiTech is founded as a world-class research university for training future generations of scientists, entrepreneurs, and technical leaders. Boasting a new modern campus in Zhangjiang Hightech Park of cosmopolitan Shanghai, ShanghaiTech shall trail-blaze a new education system in China. Besides establishing and maintaining a world-class research profile, faculty candidates are also expected to contribute substantially to both graduate and undergraduate educations.
Candidates in all areas of information science and technology shall be considered. Our recruitment focus includes, but is not limited to: computer science, electrical engineering, information engineering, artificial intelligence, network and communication, virtual reality, statistics, data science, computational and applied mathematics, AI for science, AI in healthcare, AI for drug discovery and design etc.
Qualifications:
Strong research productivity and demonstrated potentials;
Ph.D. (Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Statistics, Applied Math, or related field);
A minimum relevant (including PhD) research experience of 4 years.
Application Procedure:
Submit (in English, PDF version) a cover letter, a 2-page research plan, a CV plus copies of 3 most significant publications, and names of three referees to: https://www.wenjuan.com/s/MFzQjeO/
For more information, please visit http://sist.shanghaitech.edu.cn/ or contact sist@shanghaitech.edu.cn
Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMS)
Academic Disciplines:
Pure mathematics: algebraic geometry, differential geometry, partial differential equations, number theory, probability.
Theory of Computing: all areas of theoretical computer science, especially algorithms and computational complexity.
Applied mathematics: computational mathematics, statistics and data science, physical mathematics, mathematical and computational biology, biostatistics, mathematical finance, operations research, actuarial sciences.
Qualifications:
Assistant professors are expected to be young mathematicians who have a demonstrated potential to be leading researchers internationally. These “tenure-track” positions have a six-year duration. Associate professors are established experts in their field. These tenured positions are permanent.
Postdoctoral fellow positions are also available for young scientists.
Application Procedure:
Applicants are encouraged to submit the following documents through mathjobs.org:
CV, including a list of publications
A research statement of up to 5 pages, describing their main achievements to date, as well as outlining the program of research they intend to follow for the next few years.
A teaching statement
Four letters of recommendation, at least one of which should address teaching.
Applications received will get full consideration. Early applications are encouraged as they will be evaluated on a rolling basis, but applications will be considered until the positions are filled.
Company
ShanghaiTech University 上海科技大学
Jointly founded by the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and Shanghai Municipal People’s Government in 2013, ShanghaiTech University aspires to be a small-scale, high-level, international university oriented towards research and innovation, for nurturing the next generation of innovative scientists, inventors, and entrepreneurs. On February 14, 2022, ShanghaiTech joined the list of China’s World-Class Universities Project as the youngest university in that list. With the backing and support of our two co-founding institutions, ShanghaiTech is committed to tackling the challenges that China and the world are facing in the fields covering artificial intelligence, biology, biomedical engineering, data science, electrical engineering, energy, environment, human health, materials, and others.
ShanghaiTech’s tenure-track system is attracting talented faculty with a wealth of experience from world-leading universities and institutes. Currently there are ~340 professors under the tenure-track system, 80% of whom have overseas study or work experiences and around 14% are foreign nationals. Our team of nearly 290 adjunct professors includes four Nobel Prize winners, 38 academicians of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) and the Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE).
With a focus on STEM fields, ShanghaiTech has established the following schools, institutes, one center and a research hospital:
-School of Physical Science and Technology
-School of Life Science and Technology
-School of Information Science and Technology
-School of Entrepreneurship and Management
-School of Creativity and Art
-Institute of Humanities
-School of Biomedical Engineering
-Shanghai Institute for Advanced Immunochemical Studies
-iHuman Institute
-Institute of Mathematical Sciences
-Center for Transformative Science
-Institute of Carbon Neutrality
-Shanghai Clinical Research and Trial Center (research hospital)
Located in Shanghai’s Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park, ShanghaiTech plays an important role in the development of the Zhangjiang Comprehensive National Science Center, in partnership with CAS institutes. The proximity of neighboring facilities offers numerous opportunities for scientific collaborations. The world-class scientific facilities include: National Center for Protein Science (Shanghai), Shanghai HIgh repetitioN rate XFEL and Extreme light facility (SHINE), Shanghai Superintense Ultrafast Laser Facility (SULF), Shanghai Synchrotron Radiation Facility (SSRF), Shanghai Soft X-ray Free Electron Laser Facility (SXEFL), and others. These facilities welcome not only ShanghaiTech staff and students, but also other researchers from China and the world.
Currently, there are over 300 research groups at ShanghaiTech. Since 2016, ShanghaiTech has published 85 Cell, Nature and Science papers as the main affiliation, and multiple achievements are recognized at the national/municipal level, including two awards among Top 10 Scientific Advances in China, one award among Top 10 S&T Advances in Chinese Universities, five awards among Top 10 Advances in Life Sciences in China, and one 1st prize of the Shanghai S&T Awards, etc.
In 2019, ShanghaiTech ranks first in the Report on Tech Transfer Achievements in China (Higher Education Institution)1. Since the birth of the first spinoff company in 2016, ShanghaiTech has incubated 40 spinoffs, spanning the areas of biomedicine, IT&AI, high-end manufacturing and new energy. Not only the faculty, but also the students become founders of those spinouts. Further, dedicated incubators inside and outside the campus serve as vital “powerhouses” of innovation practices and bridges for connecting technical, market, policy and capital resources.
Company info
Location
Shanghai201210China
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Send job
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Faculty Positions at School of Sciences, Great Bay University, China
Dongguan, China
Tenure-track Positions at The HIT Center for Life Sciences, China
Harbin, Heilongjiang (CN)
Faculty Positions in AI for Life Sciences at Westlake University
Hangzhou, Zhejiang (CN)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software