I don’t browse Reddit without NotebookLM anymore, and I never plan to
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I don’t browse Reddit without NotebookLM anymore, and I never plan to
By
Mahnoor Faisal
Published 3 hours ago
Mahnoor is a News Writer at XDA who has been in the professional writing game since her sophomore year of high school. While pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, she also has bylines esteemed publications like XDA's sister site, MakeUseOf, SlashGear, Laptop Mag, and Android Police.
Whether she's spending hours debugging code or staying up all night to watch a tech event, Mahnoor’s passion for technology is undeniable. She loves writing about all things tech, with a particular focus on iOS and macOS.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Outside quick questions, I often don't turn to Google or even AI chatbots like ChatGPT and Gemini when I need real answers. More often than not, I end up on Reddit. Now, here's the issue with Reddit: it's extremely easy to get sidetracked and fall into a rabbit hole of endless threads. Before you know it, you've spent hours and hours scrolling through random Reddit posts, even when the original question that brought you there was solved long, long ago. So, I was looking for a way to solve that problem. Given that I've paired NotebookLM with pretty much every productivity tool I use on a daily like Slack, Excel, Google Docs, and even my daily browser, Perplexity Comet, I wondered what it could do with Reddit — one of the platforms where I lose the most time? So, that's exactly what I decided to do.
First up, here’s how I set it up
Myndo makes it quick and effortless
When I typically pair NotebookLM with productivity tools, most of them produce a neat export file that I can drop right into NotebookLM. With Reddit, I had to take a different approach since there really isn't a built-in option to move posts or comments over in one click. My next option is usually using a Chrome extension to quickly import sources to NotebookLM, but that unfortunately didn't work out with Reddit. For some reason, all of the Chrome extensions would only import the usernames of the Redditors who posted and commented, along with a bunch of random metadata, but none of the actual post content. Not exactly useful when what I really needed was the discussion itself. Thankfully, I knew just the extension I needed to avoid this problem: Myndo. Though this extension isn't specifically designed for NotebookLM, it's built to make feeding data to any AI tool as smooth as possible. Myndo lets you clip any content you come across online into Markdown, which makes it easier for Large Language Models (LLMs) to process. The Chrome extension also takes it one step further by adding tags and instructions that allow AI tools to prioritize certain sources, and it lets you add Custom Instructions, AI-specific notes detailing how your clipped content should be treated. All the data you clip is structured in a way that allows AI tools to prioritize the right information and focus on what matters. What Myndo does is add the sources you clip to a Google Docs document. Every time you want to clip new data, you can either append it to the same Google Doc or create a new one. From there, it's just a matter of importing that document into NotebookLM. The reason why Myndo is perfect for importing Reddit posts is because it lets you manually select just the content you'd like to add. When you're adding a source to a Myndo notebook, you'll notice a Selection option that lets you hover over a paragraph and selectively clip just that section. With Reddit posts, hovering your cursor right below the first comment on the post tends to select the entire comments section. Just make sure you click the Load more comments button. Otherwise, NotebookLM will only see the first batch of replies and miss out on the rest of the discussion. Once everything is loaded, though, Myndo grabs the whole thread cleanly, strips away the clutter, and drops it into your Google Doc.
I instantly drop Reddit posts into NotebookLM and dive deeper
The easiest way to save time
Whenever I come across a Reddit post I'm even remotely interested in, I don't spend time reading the entire post and comments. Instead, I use Myndo to add it to NotebookLM instantly. This way, I know I won't fall into the rabbit hole of endless threads and waste hours on Reddit. Since I tend to browse through Reddit a lot for work as well, there are times when I come across posts I’d like to dig deeper into later. In those cases, I simply use Myndo to add it to a NotebookLM notebook and explore it when I have more time. Once the post has been added to NotebookLM, I use prompts like the one below to quickly get a gist of what the post is about — from both the Redditor who made it and the commenters’ point of view:
Give me a clear, structured summary of this Reddit post. Start with the original poster’s main point, context, or question. Then break down the key themes and perspectives from the comments, grouping similar opinions together. Highlight any disagreements, useful insights, or unique points of view. Finally, explain how the overall tone of the discussion shifts between the OP and the commenters, and what the general consensus (if any) seems to be.
I don't use this exact prompt every time, and instead tweak it based on the context of the Reddit post I'm adding to NotebookLM. What’s great about pairing NotebookLM with Reddit is that getting a quick summary of a post I want to explore isn’t all it can do. Once I have an idea of what the post is about, I ask targeted questions to dig deeper into specific parts of the discussion. My personal favorite, though, is converting lengthy Reddit posts I don’t want to read into deep dive discussions. While you can choose from different formats like Debate and Critique, my go-to is the default Deep Dive, since it’s structured in a podcast-style format. Two hosts discuss the sources you upload in an engaging way, breaking them down so it feels conversational rather than like a dry summary. I can’t count the number of Reddit posts I’ve consumed this way while on a bus ride or working on something else. It turns content that would normally demand my full attention into something passive and enjoyable. NotebookLM also has other features you can use to engage with content better, like Mind Maps, which are perfect when a Reddit post branches off into multiple directions.
I’ll never scroll Reddit the old way again
I'm not exaggerating when I say this — pairing NotebookLM and Reddit has helped me save hours and hours. If you're like me and are tired of falling into endless rabbit holes, this combo makes it so much easier to get the answers you need without wasting your day away.
Productivity & Creativity Tools
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
wojtek
wojtek
wojtek
#EX105555
Member since 2025-09-19
0
Threads
3
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
how in Earth are you getting sidetracked in Reddit?maybe it's the terrible new UI but on the old. reddit.com you only get the relevant thread and comments and nothing else so the chance of getting sidetracked is slim...
2025-09-19 20:06:51
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
Elevate your workspace with this sleek and feature-packed docking station
21 hours ago
This cool ESP32-powered D&D dice roller makes it look like you're playing TTRPGs in a 90s sci-fi movie
1 day ago
4 reasons I keep coming back to RustDesk for remote sessions
2 days ago
I use these Obsidian keyboard shortcuts to boost my productivity
Today's best deals
Score this Cooler Master wireless mechanical keyboard for 49% off and add a splash of color to your workspace
3 hours ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
15 hours ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
VLANs are better than dozens of firewall rules, but here's how you can still segment your network without one
3 reasons a Dev Drive might be the perfect addition to your Windows install
Undervolting your GPU can actually improve performance
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.