Cases of drug-resistant "nightmare bacteria" are rising in the U.S., CDC researchers say - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Comey Indicted
TikTok Deal
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
HealthWatch
|
Eat
Move
Sleep
Love
Mental Health
Health Essentials
Spotlight On: Gut Health
Watch CBS News
HealthWatch
Cases of drug-resistant "nightmare bacteria" are rising in the U.S., CDC researchers say
September 23, 2025 / 2:27 PM EDT
/ AP
New antibiotics needed "yesterday"
New antibiotics needed "yesterday" to fight drug-resistant infections
05:37
Infection rates from drug-resistant "nightmare bacteria" rose almost 70% between 2019 and 2023, according to a new report from Centers for Disease Control and Prevention scientists.Bacteria that are difficult to treat due to the so-called NDM gene primarily drove the increase, CDC researchers wrote in an article published Monday in the Annals of Internal Medicine. Only two antibiotics work against those infections, and the drugs are expensive and must be administered through an IV, researchers said. Bacteria with the gene were once considered exotic, linked to a small number of patients who received medical care overseas. Though the numbers are still small, the rate of U.S. cases jumped more than fivefold in recent years, the researchers reported."The rise of NDMs in the U.S. is a grave danger and very worrisome," said David Weiss, an Emory University infectious diseases researcher, in an email.It's likely many people are unrecognized carriers of the drug-resistant bacteria, which could lead to community spread, the CDC scientists said.
That may play out in doctors' offices across the country, as infections long considered routine and easy to treat — like urinary tract infections — could become chronic problems, said Dr. Maroya Walters, one of the report's authors.Antimicrobial resistance occurs when germs such as bacteria and fungi gain the power to fight off the drugs designed to kill them. The misuse of antibiotics was a big reason for the rise — unfinished or unnecessary prescriptions that didn't kill the germs made them stronger.In recent years, the CDC has drawn attention to "nightmare bacteria" resistant to a wide range of antibiotics. That includes carbapenems, a class of antibiotics considered a last resort for treatment of serious infections.Researchers drew data from 29 states that do the necessary testing and reporting of carbapenem-resistant bacteria.
They counted 4,341 cases of carbapenem-resistant bacterial infections from those states in 2023, with 1,831 of them the NDM variety. The researchers did not say how many of the infected people died.The rate of carbapenem-resistant infections rose from just under 2 per 100,000 people in 2019 to more than 3 per 100,000 in 2023 — an increase of 69%. But the rate of NDM cases rose from around 0.25 to about 1.35 — an increase of 460%, the authors said.A researcher not involved in the study said the increase is probably related to the COVID-19 pandemic."We know that there was a huge surge in antibiotic use during the pandemic, so this likely is reflected in increasing drug resistance," said Dr. Jason Burnham, a Washington University researcher, in an email.The CDC's count is only a partial picture. Many states are not fully testing and reporting cases. Even in states that do, cases tend to be among hospital patients sick enough to warrant special testing. Many hospitals also aren't able to do the testing needed to detect certain forms of genetic resistance.The CDC researchers did not have data from some of the most populous states, including California, Florida, New York and Texas, which means the absolute number of U.S. infections "is definitely underestimated," Burnham said.
This is not the first study to report a rise. A CDC report published in June noted an increase in NDM cases in New York City between 2019 and 2024.
More from CBS News
Lice concerns rise with kids at school. What to know about prevention, treatment.
STDs fall in adults, syphilis in newborns rises: CDC data
How states are stepping in amid confusion on vaccine recommendations
Should kids get flu and COVID shots this fall? Here's what to know amid changes.
Health
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Cancer
California
Florida
Science
© 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
More from CBS News
Lice concerns rise with kids at school. What to know about prevention, treatment.
STDs fall in adults, syphilis in newborns rises: CDC data
How states are stepping in amid confusion on vaccine recommendations
Should kids get flu and COVID shots this fall? Here's what to know amid changes.
Featured
Dallas ICE Facility Shooting
Trump U.N. Speech
NFL Week 4 Picks
CFB Week 5 What to Watch
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue