Final Fantasy Tactics remake director Kazutoyo Maehiro on reviving a classic
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Directory Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Kazutoyo Maehiro is directing the remake of the classic he worked on 30 years ago
Final Fantasy Tactics remake director on the 'pressure' of returning to Ivalice
By
Jen Glennon
Published Sep 3, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Square Enix’s bonkers 'vampires in space' game deserved better
Sep 9, 2025
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
8 hours ago
One of the best video-game movies ever made is streaming now on Hulu
Sep 10, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Square Enix
This article is part of a directory: The 2025 Fall Preview
Table of contents
The big lists
The big lists
The 25 most anticipated games for fall 2025
The 25 most anticipated movies of fall 2025
The 20 most anticipated TV shows of 2025
All the big fall JRPGs, ranked by how likely you are to finish them
14 games that should be 2025 Game of the Year contenders
The 20 most anticipated anime shows and movies of fall 2025
The interviews
The interviews
The brain behind QWOP has spent 20 years perfecting the art of failure
Inside Pluribus, a Better Call Saul reunion so secret its star can barely explain it
Final Fantasy Tactics remake director on the 'pressure' of returning to Ivalice
The next level
The next level
The Outer Worlds 2 introduces its villain with a museum heist
Skate's Flick-It system is so complex that it invented new IRL tricks
The Lonesome Guild is Pokémon Mystery Dungeon for sad adults
On screen
On screen
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle's lead voice actor says the pressure is on after Mugen Train's success
Star Wars: Visions volume 3's first episode is a psychedelic acid trip
Exclusive: Michael Cera and Glen Powell hide from... something in new The Running Man image
Exclusive: Get a sneak peek at the Grabber's new victim in Black Phone 2
Zooming out
Zooming out
This fall’s movies are about resistance and revolution
What’s the next $80 game going to be?
Final Fantasy Tactics – Ivalice Chronicles is a gentler remake, but far from defanged
Exclusive pages
Exclusive pages
Tim Burton’s Batman finally has a Riddler sequel — here’s a taste
A young Geralt takes the stage in this exclusive from The Witcher prequel Crossroads of Ravens
Check out an exclusive excerpt from the third book in the Legends & Lattes cozy fantasy series
Darth Vader clashes with the Emperor in a brand new Star Wars story
Tron creator Steven Lisberger had a radical unused idea for a Tron sequel
One of the best Superman comics ever is getting an epic audio drama — and you can hear some now
It’s rare to get a do-over in life. It’s rarer still to get a do-over for something that happened nearly 30 years ago. That’s the unique position Square Enix’s Kazutoyo Maehiro finds himself in with the upcoming release of Final Fantasy Tactics: The Ivalice Chronicles. The original Final Fantasy Tactics was released in 1997 for the PlayStation, and has since garnered a sterling reputation within the strategy role-playing subgenre. It’s also beloved for its intricate and politically charged story, which touches on themes of class struggle and social division.
Maehiro worked as an event planner on Final Fantasy Tactics 28 years ago. Now he’s returning to this beloved game as the director of a top-down remake. Back then, he was ticking boxes. Now, the stakes are higher. “I was a very, very new game designer at the time," Maehiro tells Polygon. "I was really just having to focus on making sure I'm doing each of the tasks at hand. Now that I'm revisiting this game 30 years later as the director, when I think back to myself back then, there is a feeling that I don't want to lose in terms of the determination that person had. And I also felt that if this project would be a failure, that would be a huge disrespect to the original development team that I was part of. So in that sense, I did feel a large pressure about it. That said, I was very, very blessed and fortunate to be able to work with such a wonderful team for this project as well. I do feel that the final product we're putting out is very polished and refined. I'm very, very proud of it — almost on the same level of pride that I feel having been involved with the original.”
Starting from scratch
Image: Square Enix
Back in the ‘90s, it wasn’t common practice for studios to retain the original source code for their games. As such, many remakes of games from that period rely on emulated versions of later ports. But that wasn’t the direction Maehiro wanted to go. Instead, he and his team recreated the game from the ground up by replaying the PlayStation and PlayStation Portable releases of the game, a process that was far more time-consuming, but also presented a far greater opportunity to refine the experience for players. “The work involved with analyzing all those various iterations to recreate that source code certainly was very labor-intensive. But by doing that, we were actually able to make adjustments that would not have been able to be done through an emulator,” Maehiro explains. “One of the things I’m referring to is implementing the auto-save feature in classic mode. These kinds of features have been added that help make the game that much more comfortable and accessible to play, and that's something that we were able to do through the analysis process.” Another new feature that Maehiro and the team added to Final Fantasy Tactics is State of the Realm, which players of Final Fantasy 16 will remember as a codex for keeping track of the story’s events and characters, whether it’s just for a refresher between battles or after taking a break from the game for a while. The team also brought the slick Final Fantasy 16 user interface into The Ivalice Chronicles, so if those modern menus look rather familiar, that’s why.
Meeting the challenge
Image: Square Enix
A spiffed-up UI wasn’t the only way Maehiro and his team sought to improve the FFT experience. The Ivalice Chronicles also features three difficulty settings that players can swap between at any time — Squire, Knight, and Tactician, from easiest to most challenging. “When the original game launched, we heard some fans wanted to play the game but couldn't because of the difficulty,” Maehiro explains. The team also adjusted a few early-game battles to make them more approachable, and Maehiro says the middle-ground Knight difficulty is actually slightly easier than the 1997 game. But the director and his team have no intention of neglecting the experienced players who are looking for even tougher fights. “When it comes to the highest difficulty, which is called Tactical in Japanese and Tactician in English, that's something that we made for those veteran players who played Final Fantasy Tactics previously. We wanted to be able to provide a challenging experience for them as well, so we hope people look forward to that,” he explains.
A timeless tale
Image: Square Enix
Final Fantasy Tactics hasn’t stayed in players' hearts for nearly three decades just because it’s fun to play. Its captivating story and memorable characters are key elements of that enviable endurance, and the original game’s writer and director, Yasumi Matsuno, has spoken passionately in recent months about how economic inequality, social division, and global wars shaped the story. While Maehiro notes that the story has deep ties to unrest that roiled Japanese society in the mid-’90s, he adds, with a rueful chuckle, that the world of today doesn't seem all that different. “Even though it has been 30 years, in a way, it almost feels as if there hasn't been much change in terms of the state of the world. But at the same time, you can also think about this story as one that is simply about the two characters' problems and what they go through, the decisions they make. And in addition to that, these characters are affected differently by things like the class hierarchy that exists within society. So I feel as though that kind of story is certainly one that would resonate, even with the modern audience,” Maehiro says. But even though Final Fantasy Tactics’ story is inherently political in its subject matter, Maehiro says the goal is not to nudge players toward a specific point of view. “Some stories touch on political themes, others may not. The pursuit of trying to create something that is compelling, something that really draws people in… that isn't necessarily a feeling of wanting to push some sort of ideology. The goal is to be able to provide something good, and that people will be able to enjoy this game,” he explains.
Back to Ivalice
Image: Square Enix
This tale of political intrigue, betrayal, and friendship takes place in a shared setting that spans several Square Enix games, including Final Fantasy 12 and Vagrant Story. It’s also the centerpiece of a raid in Final Fantasy 14’s Stormblood expansion. Alternately used to describe a kingdom, a region, and a world, Ivalice is a medieval-inspired place where magic and machinery coexist. (In other words, it’s the stuff of quintessential Final Fantasy.) For Maehiro, having explored Ivalice through Final Fantasy Tactics early in his career at Square Enix, it’s something of a homecoming. “This project was the first time in a while that I was able to touch the world of Ivalice again. Through that, I really did feel as though the world is just so deep and so broad,” he explains. “This is something that I felt during Gamescom as well. I do know and feel that there's such enduring popularity when it comes to Vagrant Story. So as someone who was involved in that project too, one day, I do truly hope that we do have a chance to be able to bring that game back as well.” Naturally, Maehiro doesn’t have control over what games Square Enix decides to make in the future. Right now, the company doesn’t have any plans to return to Ivalice again, whether in the form of another remake or a new game. But if such a thing were to happen down the line, it sounds like he’d be game. “So I, myself, definitely do have a hope of wanting to explore expanding the world of Ivalice. But at this time, unfortunately, that’s purely personal.”
Previous
Inside Pluribus, a Better Call Saul reunion so secret its star can barely explain it
All
The 2025 Fall Preview
Next
The Outer Worlds 2 introduces its villain with a museum heist
Fall Preview
Q&A
Final Fantasy
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Aug 30, 2025
The Outer Worlds 2 introduces its villain with a museum heist
2 days ago
I played an hour of Pokémon Legends: Z-A and am smitten with its chaotic battles
16 hours ago
Ghost of Yōtei is as close as PlayStation can get to an old Hollywood epic
17 hours ago
How did Sydney Chandler learn to speak Xenomorph?
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Read Next
The 2025 Fall Preview
Image: Apple TV Plus
Inside Pluribus, a Better Call Saul reunion so secret its star can barely explain it
Image: Obsidian Entertainment/Xbox Game Studios
The Outer Worlds 2 introduces its villain with a museum heist
Image: EA
Skate's Flick-It system is so complex that it invented new IRL tricks
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.