Stock Market Crashes: A Look at 150 Years of Bear Markets | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
How Frequent Are Market Crashes?
How to Measure the Pain of a Market Crash
5 Most Severe Market Crashes of the Past 150 Years
Lessons Learned About Navigating Stock Market Volatility
Home
Economy
What We’ve Learned From 150 Years of Stock Market Crashes
What We’ve Learned From 150 Years of Stock Market Crashes
Though they varied in length and severity, the market always recovered and went on to new highs.
Emelia Fredlick
Sep 12, 2025
Share
When will the next bear market happen—and when it does, how long will it take to recover?Stocks were approaching bear-market territory as recently as Monday, April 7, and forecasters across Wall Street were raising the odds of a recession happening in 2025.It took the US stock market 18 months to recover from its most recent bear market—the downturn of December 2021, which was spurred by the Russia-Ukraine war, intense inflation, and supply shortages. On the other hand, the covid downturn of March 2020 was a much faster cycle. Though the initial drop was dramatic, the market ultimately recovered in just four months—the fastest recovery of any market crash over the past 150 years.So, what have we learned from these recent crashes?It’s impossible to predict how long a stock market recovery will take.If you don’t panic and sell your stock holdings when the market crashes, you will be rewarded in the long run.These lessons also ring true when it comes to all other historical market crashes: Though they had varying lengths and levels of severity, the market always recovered and went on to new highs.Here’s what we’ve learned from the market declines of the past 150 years. How Frequent Are Market Crashes?The number of market crashes depends on how far back we go in history and how we identify them.Here, we turn to data that former Morningstar Director of Research Paul Kaplan compiled for the book Insights into the Global Financial Crisis. Kaplan’s data includes monthly US stock market returns going back to January 1886 and annual returns over the period from 1871-1885.In the chart below, each bear-market episode is indicated with a horizontal line, which starts at the episode’s peak cumulative value and ends when the cumulative value recovers to the previous peak. (Note that we use the term “market crash” interchangeably with bear market, which is generally defined as a decline of 20% or more. Also note that because this chart is informed by Consumer Price Index data, it does not fully reflect the most recent market movements. Still, the long-term trends hold.)When you incorporate the effect of inflation, one dollar (in 1870 US dollars) invested in a hypothetical US stock market index in 1871 would have grown to $30,033 by the end of July 2025. The substantial growth of that $1 highlights the enormous benefits of staying invested for the long term.Still, it was far from a steady increase over that period. There were 19 market crashes along the way, with varying levels of severity. Some of the most severe market crashes have included:The Great Depression, which began with the crash of 1929. This 79% stock market loss was the worst drop of the past 150 years.The Lost Decade, which included both the dot-com bubble burst and the Great Recession. Though the market began recovering after the dot-com bubble burst, it didn’t climb back to its previous level before the crash of 2007-09. It didn’t reach that level until May 2013—more than 12 years after the initial crash. This period, the second-worst drop of the past 150 years, ultimately included a stock market loss of 54%.Inflation, Vietnam, and Watergate, which began in early 1973 and ultimately led to a stock market decline of 51.9%. Factors that contributed to this bear market include civil unrest related to the war in Vietnam and the Watergate scandal, in addition to high inflation from the OPEC oil embargo. This market downturn is particularly relevant to today’s environment, given issues like the recent inflation surge and the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars.These examples demonstrate the frequency of market crashes. Though these events are significant at the moment, they are indeed regularly occurring events that happen approximately once a decade.What does this history tell us about navigating volatile markets? Mainly, that they’re worth navigating. How to Measure the Pain of a Market CrashHow do you evaluate a market crash’s severity? That’s what Kaplan’s “pain index” measures. This framework considers both the degree of the decline and how long it took to get back to the prior level of cumulative value.Here’s how it works: The pain index is the ratio of the area between the cumulative value line and the peak-to-recovery line, compared with that area for the worst market decline since 1870. That is, the crash of 1929/first part of the Great Depression has a pain index of 100%, and the other market crashes’ percentages represent how closely they matched that level of severity.For example, consider that the market suffered a 22.8% drop around the Cuban missile crisis. The crash of 1929 led to a 79% drop, which is 3.5 times greater. That’s already significant, but also consider that the market took four and a half years to recover after that trough, while it took less than a year to recover after the trough of the Cuban missile crisis. So, taking this time frame into account, the pain index conveys that the first part of the Great Depression was 28.2 times worse than the Cuban missile crisis downturn.The table below lists the bear markets of the past 150 years, sorted by the severity of market decline, and including its pain index.As you can see, the market downturn of December 2021 (resulting from the Russia-Ukraine war, intense inflation, and supply shortages) ranks 11th on this list. By comparing this market crash to the other ones on the table, we see that the 28.5% stock market decline over that nine-month period was more painful for the stock market than the Cuban missile crisis and several downturns of the late 1800s/early 1900s.And the covid crash of March 2020 was actually the least painful of these 19 crashes, due to the quick subsequent recovery. Though the downturn was sharp and severe (a 19.6% decline over roughly a month), the stock market ultimately recovered to its previous level a mere four months later.Explore what these 150 years of market crashes looked like for the 60/40 portfolio.5 Most Severe Market Crashes of the Past 150 YearsTo better evaluate the impact of some of the most severe downturns of the past 150 years, let’s follow the path of $100 at the beginning of each market crash.World War I and Influenza. After peaking in June 1911, markets soon started falling due to the breakups of conglomerates like the Standard Oil Company and the American Tobacco Company—and the worst part of this downturn began when World War I broke out in July 1914. The stock market continued to decline over the next few years (bringing that $100 investment down to a value of $49.04) and didn’t recover until after the 1918 influenza pandemic.1929 Crash and Great Depression. If you invested $100 in the stock market at the time of the 1929 crash, it would have declined in value to $21 by May 1932. This crash occurred when the post-World War I economic boom (which led to overconfidence, overspending, and overinflation of prices) was eventually no longer sustainable—a downturn from which the market took more than four years to recover.Great Depression and World War II. The recovery from the first part of the Great Depression didn’t last long. Though the stock market recovered to its 1929 high by November 1936 (meaning that our investment had recovered to its $100 value, and even slightly ticked up to $100.23), it started declining again in February 1937. This next decline was largely owed to President Franklin Roosevelt’s changes in fiscal policy, including factors like the contraction in banks’ reserve levels and the Social Security tax, which compounded with the impact of World War II. The investment sank to $52.49 in March 1938, and eventually recovered to $104.88 by February 1945.Inflation, Vietnam, and Watergate. In 1973, Middle Eastern members of OPEC imposed an oil embargo on the US, which led to severe inflation. On top of turmoil around the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam and political uncertainty after the Watergate scandal, this period saw a 51.9% stock market decline—which would have brought a $100 investment down to $48.13. It took more than nine years to recover from this downturn.Lost Decade (Dot-Com Bust and Global Financial Crisis). The dot-com bust began when overinflated prices in internet and technology companies hit a breaking point, losing nearly all the gains they had previously made. A $100 investment in August 2000 would have declined in value to $52.76. Seven years later, the stock market had almost gotten back to its previous level ($95.25) when the housing bubble burst and mortgage-backed securities began experiencing losses, leading to the Great Recession (in which the investment declined in value to $46). Altogether, this 12-year period included a 54% decline.The market ultimately recovered from the Great Recession in May 2013, but still to come was the covid market crash and the downturn of late 2021.There were also several shorter, less severe market declines over these 150 years. Consider the Rich Man’s Panic, caused by President Theodore Roosevelt’s attempt to break up large companies. Or the Baring Brothers Crisis: Barings Bank’s numerous investments in Argentina suffered when the nation faced a coup in 1891.Yet even with those blips along the way, $100 invested at the beginning of the new millennium would be worth more than $300 as of August 2025. If that $100 had been invested back in 1870, it would be worth $3,003,300 today.Get more insights on how to tune out the noise during a volatile market.Lessons Learned About Navigating Stock Market VolatilitySo, what does this history tell us about navigating volatile markets? Mainly, that they’re worth navigating.The stock market recovered after its stressful period in 2022—just as it did after a 79% decline in the early 1930s. And that’s the point: Market crashes always feel scary when they happen, but there’s no way to know in the moment whether you’re encountering a minor correction or looking down the barrel of the next Great Depression.Still, even if you are looking down the barrel of the next Great Depression, history shows us that the market eventually recovers.But since the path to recovery is so uncertain, the best way to be prepared is by owning a well-diversified portfolio that fits your time horizon and risk tolerance. Investors who stay invested in the market in the long run will reap rewards that make the turmoil worthwhile.This article includes data and analysis from Paul Kaplan, Ph.D., CFA, former director of research with Morningstar Canada.Data journalist Bella Albrecht and editorial manager Lauren Solberg also contributed to this article.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Economy
View All
Forecasts for August PCE Report Shows Some Cooling, but Tariff Impacts Persist Core monthly inflation could come in slightly lower.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Emelia Fredlick Senior Editor
More from Author
Emelia Fredlick is a senior editor for Morningstar.com.
The 60/40 Portfolio: A 150-Year Markets Stress Test
Emelia Fredlick Sep 15, 2025
What We’ve Learned From 150 Years of Stock Market Crashes
Emelia Fredlick Sep 12, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Fixed-Income Investing
Tori Brovet Sep 8, 2025
How to Invest Like Warren Buffett
Emelia Fredlick Aug 29, 2025
Morningstar′s Guide to ETF Investing
Emelia Fredlick Jul 21, 2025
Best Sustainable Companies to Own: 2025 Edition
Emelia Fredlick Jul 14, 2025
22 Best Healthcare Companies to Invest In
Emelia Fredlick Jul 11, 2025
Best International Companies to Own: 2025 Edition
Emelia Fredlick Jul 8, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Diversification
Tori Brovet May 14, 2025
Are Robo-Advisors Still Worth It?
Lan Anh Tran May 2, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility