Some of Intel's future chips will integrate Nvidia RTX GPUs
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Some of Intel's future chips will integrate Nvidia RTX GPUs
By
Simon Batt
Published 10 hours ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Nvidia invested $5B in Intel and partners to build x86 SOCs combining Intel CPUs with RTX GPU chiplets.
x86 RTX SOCs aim to power a range of PCs, improving laptops and handheld gaming with tighter CPU-GPU integration.
Intel may focus on affordable GPUs while Nvidia keeps the high-end; SOCs could reshape mid-range GPU roles.
As the AI scene heats up, hardware companies have been pushing to ensure they're at the forefront of the revolution. After all, if they can't provide for a potential world where people run LLMs on their system, someone else definitely will. To ensure they both keep commanding positions in the PC hardware world, Nvidia and Intel have teamed up to develop system-on-chips (SOCs) that tap into both Nvidia's GPU expertise and Intel's long history in CPU design. And while both companies are making a big push into the world of AI infrastructure, consumers will also see a benefit.
Intel and Nvidia join forces to create mighty SOCs for all
Over on the Nvidia Newsroom, the company announces that it has invested $5 billion into Intel's stock, alongside a partnership that sees the two designing an SOC that leverages Intel's CPUs and Nvidia's GPUs. While the main goal is to supply an AI-hungry world with hardware, consumers are also getting some advancements of their own. Nvidia announced that Intel will construct x86 SOCs that use RTX GPU chiplets on them. Nvidia calls them "x86 RTX SOCs" and claims they'll eventually find their home inside PCs worldwide. The company didn't elaborate on what these SOCs will look like in terms of hardware. Still, it did say they'll "power a wide range of PCs that demand integration of world-class CPUs and GPUs," which sounds very exciting, especially for laptop and handheld gaming enthusiasts. NVIDIA founder and CEO Jensen Huang is pretty pleased with the collaboration:
“AI is powering a new industrial revolution and reinventing every layer of the computing stack — from silicon to systems to software. At the heart of this reinvention is NVIDIA’s CUDA architecture. This historic collaboration tightly couples NVIDIA’s AI and accelerated computing stack with Intel’s CPUs and the vast x86 ecosystem — a fusion of two world-class platforms. Together, we will expand our ecosystems and lay the foundation for the next era of computing.”
While this all sounds good on paper, it raises the question: if Intel has teamed up with Nvidia, what will it do with its own GPUs like Battlemage? We may see them fill a low-to-middle-end niche with a strong focus on affordability, while Nvidia leads the way with high-end products. At the same time, one could argue that, if these x86 RTX SOCs are mighty enough, they'll handle the demands of middle-end devices by themselves, which puts Intel in a weird spot, GPU-wise. We'll have to wait and see what happens.
Other Hardware
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
14 hours ago
Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
12 hours ago
I ran my NAS in Proxmox and set up an SMB share so my LXCs can access it
14 hours ago
Undervolting my CPU was one of the best system "upgrades" I've ever made
21 hours ago
The Windows 11 Snipping Tool is getting a killer time-saving feature
Today's best deals
Elevate your workspace with this sleek and feature-packed docking station
3 hours ago
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
20 hours ago
4 reasons I keep coming back to Obsidian
13 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I use these Obsidian keyboard shortcuts to boost my productivity
These 7 incredible games won’t ever hold your hand, and you’ll love them for it
I still use Obsidian, but I wish they'd fix its plugin dependency
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.