Best CBD Products For Anxiety (2025) – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
Best of
3.0
Our ratings take into account the card’s rewards, fees, rates along with the card’s category. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.
Why we picked it
Read More
SCROLL TO SITE
SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
CBD
Best CBD Products For Anxiety In 2025
Published: Sep 24, 2025, 10:19am
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Written By
Meaghan Harmon
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Staff Editor
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Edited By
Sarah Davis
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Staff Editor
Jessica Cho, M.D.
Integrative Medicine
For the past 25 years, Dr. Jessica Cho practiced medicine with a single mission: Help patients attain wellness and create a life full of joy, vitality and balance. As a physician, her passion is to educate and empower her patients. Her medical expert...
See Full Bio
Jessica Cho, M.D.
Integrative Medicine
For the past 25 years, Dr. Jessica Cho practiced medicine with a single mission: Help patients attain wellness and create a life full of joy, vitality and balance. As a physician, her passion is to educate and empower her patients. Her medical expert...
See Full Bio
Jessica Cho, M.D.
Jessica Cho, M.D.
Integrative Medicine
For the past 25 years, Dr. Jessica Cho practiced medicine with a single mission: Help patients attain wellness and create a life full of joy, vitality and balance. As a physician, her passion is to educate and empower her patients. Her medical expert...
See Full Bio
Jessica Cho, M.D.
Integrative Medicine
For the past 25 years, Dr. Jessica Cho practiced medicine with a single mission: Help patients attain wellness and create a life full of joy, vitality and balance. As a physician, her passion is to educate and empower her patients. Her medical expert...
See Full Bio
Medically Reviewed
|
Integrative Medicine
& 2 others
Published: Sep 24, 2025, 10:19am
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
To determine the top CBD oils and CBD gummies for anxiety, Forbes Health analyzed more than 250 CBD products using over 20 metrics including USDA organic certification, CBD type, lab compliance factors and budget-friendliness.
To further ensure consumer safety, the top products underwent third-party laboratory testing in partnership with Forbes Health to verify CBD potency claims, as well as quality and the presence of contaminants.
Show More
Find The Best CBD Products
Best CBD Oil
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD for Pain
Best CBD for Sleep
Best CBD Creams
CBD Benefits
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services. Get 15% off 	plus free shipping on orders over $75	Cornbread Hemp Whole Flower CBD OilFlower Only™, Full Spectrum CBD oil containing starting at 25mg of CBD and 2mg of THC per servingUSDA-certified organic, vegan-friendly, gluten-free and non-GMOFloral, earthy taste with no artificial flavors or preservativesSupports nighttime comfort and natural relief for exercise recovery	Shop Now	On Cornbread Hemp's Website
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
The Best CBD Products for Anxiety
Best CBD Gummies for Anxiety
Best CBD Oils for Anxiety
CBD for Anxiety: What Experts Say
Methodology: How We Picked the Best CBD for Anxiety and Stress Relief
How to Choose the Best CBD for Anxiety and Stress
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
The Best CBD Products for Anxiety
Aspen Green Bliss Organic Full Spectrum CBD Gummies
5.0
Shop NowOn Aspen Green's Website
Best CBD Gummy for Anxiety
Cornbread Hemp Berry CBD Gummies
4.7
Shop NowOn Cornbread's Website
Best CBD Gummy for Anxiety, Runner Up
Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture
5.0
Shop NowOn CBD.co
Best CBD Oil for Anxiety
Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture 1,500mg
5.0
Shop NowOn Redeem Therapeutics' Website
Best CBD Oil for Anxiety, Runner Up
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATINGS
BEST FOR
LEARN MORE
Aspen Green Bliss Organic Full Spectrum CBD Gummies
5.0
Best CBD Gummy for Anxiety
Shop NowOn Aspen Green's Website
Cornbread Hemp Berry CBD Gummies
4.7
Best CBD Gummy for Anxiety, Runner Up
Shop NowOn Cornbread's Website
Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture
5.0
Best CBD Oil for Anxiety
Shop NowOn CBD.co
Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture 1,500mg
5.0
Best CBD Oil for Anxiety, Runner Up
Shop NowOn Redeem Therapeutics' Website
See More See Less
Best CBD Gummies for Anxiety
CBD gummies may be appealing to experienced CBD users and newcomers alike because they’re often available in several flavors and precise potencies. Here are the best CBD gummies on the market based on an analysis of factors including price, quality sourcing, potency, flavor options available, ingredients and more.
The top products also feature third-party laboratory testing facilitated by Forbes Health.
Best CBD Gummy for Anxiety	Aspen Green Bliss Organic Full Spectrum CBD Gummies
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $89.99 ($3.00 per single-gummy serving) Potency: 100 milligrams of CBD per 1-gummy serving, according to company30 gummies per container (30 servings)CBD type: Full spectrumAvailable in one flavor: TropicalFree from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Aspen Green's Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a CBD gummy product. CBD gummies are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD gummies in 2025 range from under 10 milligrams of CBD per serving to approximately 50 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from one-half to two gummies. CBD Potency:
Moderate (33.3 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per 0.5-gummy serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 33.3 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 1.34 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 48.7 milligrams Terpenes: Not detected Pesticides: Not detected within safety limits Mycotoxins:Not detected within safety limits Heavy metals: Not detected within safety limits Homogeneity: Pass
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItIndividuals who prioritize an organic lifestyle may enjoy these full-spectrum CBD gummies from Aspen Green. Formulated by physicians (according to the company), each jar of these gummies contains 3,000 milligrams of CBD and 150 milligrams of delta-9-THC, as well as other active cannabinoids like cannabigerol (CBG), notes the company. These tropical-flavored gummies are made with Colorado-grown hemp. Of note, however, the amount of CBD per serving indicated by third-party laboratory testing facilitated by Forbes Health is much lower than the advertised 50 milligrams, at 33.3 milligrams per serving.	Pros & ConsContains additional cannabinoids, including cannabigerol (CBG), according to testing resultsWebsite offers robust educational information on CBD, including a clear and customizable dosing guideVegan-friendly, non-GMO and gluten-freeMade with USDA-certified organic ingredientsSuitable for customers looking for a higher potency CBD gummyCBD per serving is less than the 50 milligrams claimed by the company, according to third-party lab testsLaboratory-tested THC potency per serving (1.34 milligrams) is lower than the 2.5 milligrams claimed by the companyExpensive compared to similar CBD gummy products
Best CBD Gummy for Anxiety, Runner Up	Cornbread Hemp Berry CBD Gummies
4.7
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $49.99 ($1.67 per serving) Potency: 25 milligrams of CBD per single-gummy serving (for 750-milligram potency total), according to the company30 gummies per container (30 servings) CBD type: Full spectrumAvailable in three flavors: Berry, watermelon and peachFree from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Cornbread's Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a CBD gummy product. CBD gummies are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD gummies in 2025 range from under 10 milligrams of CBD per serving to approximately 50 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from one-half to two gummies. CBD Potency:
Low (18.5 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per single-gummy serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 18.5 milligrams Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 0.554 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 19.6 milligrams Terpenes: Not detected Pesticides: Not detected within safety limit Mycotoxins: Not detected within safety limit Heavy metals: Not detected within safety limit Homogeneity: Pass
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItCornbread Hemp’s Berry CBD Gummies are available in three potencies: 750 milligrams (beginner), 1,500 milligrams (intermediate) and 3,000 milligrams (experienced), with prices varying based on potency. Furthermore, the company offers smaller jars containing its lowest potency offering of 300 milligrams of CBD (20 milligrams of CBD per two-gummy serving.) All options are available in berry, peach and watermelon flavors. 	Pros & ConsContains a range of cannabinoids, including cannabichromene (CBC), according to third-party laboratory testing facilitated by Forbes HealthCompany offers a range of potencies and productsUSDA-certified organicThird-party laboratory results readily available on the company websiteSubscription option allows customers to save 20%CBD content over 5 milligrams less per serving compared to company claims, according to Forbes Health lab testingAmount of THC per serving (0.554 milligrams) approximately half of what company claims, according to Forbes Health lab testingNot suitable for customers looking for a THC-free product
Best CBD Oils for Anxiety
CBD oils and tinctures come in dropper bottles and are consumed by mouth, potentially providing an effective way to consume CBD for anxiety management. Here are the best CBD oils available, based on factors including price, quality sourcing, potency, flavor options available, ingredients and more.
The top-ranking CBD oils on this list also feature third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health.
Best CBD Oil for Anxiety	Lazarus Naturals Organic CBD Tincture
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $40 ($1.33 per 1-milliliter serving) Type: Full spectrumPotency: 50 milligrams of CBD per 1-milliliter serving, according to the companyAvailable in three flavors: Classic, chocolate mint and strawberry lemonadeFree from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On CBD.co	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter.Potency:
Low Potency (52.7 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 1-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 52.7 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): 1.58 milligrams Total cannabinoids: 57.4 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected
Heavy metals:Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItLazarus Naturals CBD oil tincture is made from hemp grown on the company’s farm, where it’s extracted via an ethanol process and diluted with fractionated coconut oil and hempseed oil to ensure accurate CBD potency, according to the company. Each tincture is tested by a third-party laboratory for pesticides, heavy metals and potency, the company claims, and the results are available directly on the company website. These results are also consistent with Forbes Health third-party lab test findings.	Pros & ConsContains additional cannabinoids, including cannabichromene (CBC) and cannabigerol (CBG), according to third-party testing results, which may promote enhanced benefits through the entourage effectTested CBD potency matches the label within 5 milligrams per servingMade with organic ingredients, including organic hempseed oil, organic coconut MCT oil and organic full-spectrum hemp extract, according to the companyClear dosing instructions offered on the product websiteComes with a dropper demarcated every .25 milliliters for customizable dosingTwo sizes available: 30 milliliters containing 1,500 milligrams of CBD and 120 milliliters containing 6,000 milligrams of CBDContains coconut and may be unsafe for people with tree nut allergiesNot suitable for consumers looking for a THC-free productNo subscription purchase option for savings
Best CBD Oil for Anxiety, Runner Up	Redeem Therapeutics Broad-Spectrum CBD Tincture 1,500mg
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Manufacturer price: $49.99 (83 cents per 0.5-milliliter serving) Type: Broad spectrumPotency: 25 milligrams of CBD per 0.5-milliliter serving, according to the companyAvailable in three flavors (honey lemon, orange citrus, spearmint)Free from detectable levels of pesticides and heavy metals, according to third-party laboratory results facilitated by Forbes Health	Shop Now	On Redeem Therapeutics' Website	Lab Testing Results
CBD Potency Meter CBD potency refers to how much CBD is in a product. CBD oils are available in various potencies, depending on a company’s extraction methods. Our top CBD products in 2025 range from under 15 milligrams of CBD per serving to over 200 milligrams of CBD per serving, and company-recommended serving sizes typically range from 0.5 milliliters to 1 milliliter. Potency:
Very Low Potency (28.1 milligrams)
Read more
All measurements are per the manufacturer-recommended 0.5-millimeter serving
Cannabidiol (CBD): 28.1 milligrams Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC): Not detected Total cannabinoids: 29.9 milligrams Terpenes: Present Pesticides: Not detected Mycotoxins: Not detected Heavy metals: Not detected
View full third-party laboratory results and the COA here.
Why We Picked ItRedeem Therapeutics Broad Spectrum Hemp Extract may be a great choice for experienced CBD users and beginners alike, especially those hoping to find a product free of delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). Meanwhile, in addition to containing roughly almost 30 milligrams of CBD per 0.5-milliliter serving, this oil also contains a variety of cannabinoids and terpenes, which may enhance its beneficial health effects. However, this product’s potency varies from the label per results of Forbes Health-facilitated testing, meaning it’s more potent than a consumer may anticipate.	Pros & ConsContains additional terpenes and cannabinoids, including cannabigerol (CBG) and cannabinol (CBN), according to third-party testing results, which may promote enhanced benefits through the entourage effectFormulated with USDA-certified organic hemp extractSuitable for consumers looking for a THC-free productCompany offers a 60-day money-back guaranteeVegan friendly and gluten freeManufactured in a laboratory that adheres to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) current good manufacturing practices (cGMP), according to the companyForbes Health lab tests shows CB CBD potency is 5 grams higher per serving than product labeling suggestsContains stevia, which may not be appealing to all consumersOnly one potency available
CBD for Anxiety: What Experts Say
Little clinical research supports CBD as a standalone treatment for anxiety disorders. Many studies that do exist are either very small or investigate delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in higher concentrations than permissible in retail CBD products (no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight, according to the 2018 Farm Bill).
Still, emerging research suggests some potential benefits. One systematic review notes that while more research is needed, CBD has a “promising role” as an alternative therapy for anxiety management, as some studies indicate improved clinical outcomes in anxiety response in participants using CBD.
“There have been a good number of small clinical studies conducted with CBD in various anxiety disorders,” notes Gerry McNally, Ph.D., vice president of research and development at NextEvo Naturals, a CBD and supplement company, and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member. He adds that while current studies may have contradictory results, overall, research indicates taking CBD for stress and anxiety may be beneficial.
Speak with a health care professional familiar with the benefits and risks of CBD prior to adding it to your treatment plan.
CBD Testing and Certificate of Analysis Glossary of Terms
Not detected:
A compound was not detected in the CBD product.
Present:
A compound was detected within the CBD product.
Present within safety limits adhered to in third-party laboratory testing:
This term indicates a compound was detected but remains within the safety limits of the laboratory standards, which are defined by the state-specific guidelines.
Present below limit of quantitation (LOQ):
A compound is detected within the CBD product but isn’t present in a large enough amount for the third-party laboratory to identify its quantity in the product confidently.
Cannabidiol (CBD):
One of the most abundant, non-intoxicating active compounds in the cannabis sativa plant that research indicates may offer a number of health benefits, such as sleep and anxiety support
Delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC):
One of the most abundant active compounds in the cannabis sativa plant that produces the intoxicating, psychoactive “high” often associated with cannabis (not to exceed 0.03% by dry weight in any product, according to the 2018 Farm Bill)
Terpenes:
Active compounds responsible for a plant’s aroma, as well as potentially health-promoting properties like antibacterial and antimicrobial effects
Mycotoxins:
Toxins produced by a variety of molds (fungi) that can contaminate food and negatively affect health if consumed
Pesticides:
Chemical substances used for pest control, primarily in farmed or cultivated land and domestic environments; exposure in large quantities may pose a threat to human health
Heavy metals:
Naturally occurring essential and non-essential metals that can be dangerous to human health when consumed in high concentrations
Homogeneity (for gummies only):
Measurement indicating potency is equal from one edible gummy to another (independent lab testing facilitated by Forbes Health tests three gummies per sample)
Methodology: How We Picked the Best CBD for Anxiety and Stress Relief
To determine the best CBD products for anxiety, the Forbes Health editorial team analyzed data on over 250 CBD gummy and oil products that:
Are made from plants grown in the U.S.
Are third-party tested by ISO 17025-compliant laboratories
Pass all tests for pesticides, heavy metals and molds or have a readily available certificate of analysis (COA) confirming the absence of pesticides, heavy metals and molds
Contain no more than 0.3% THC by dry weight
Read more about our CBD review methodology.
Best CBD Gummies For Anxiety Methodology
The CBD gummies featured in the above ranking are the two top-ranked products from Forbes Health’s list of the best CBD gummies. These gummies were selected based on eight metrics including price, CBD contents, as well as gluten-free, vegan-friendly and non-GMO ingredients.
To verify their safety for use, the products were also subject to third-party laboratory testing conducted by Nova Analytics Labs in partnership with Forbes Health. Technicians verified the following elements of each gummy:
CBD potency
THC potency
Potencies of minor cannabinoid types
Presence or absence and types of terpenes
Detection of pesticides, mycotoxins, microbials and heavy metals
Homogeneity (ensuring CBD potencies match from gummy to gummy within a package)
Forbes Health editorial staff compared Nova Labs’ COAs to those listed on the manufacturer website to ensure THC, pesticide, myotoxin, and heavy metal levels were consistent across all tests.
Best CBD Oils For Anxiety Methodology
The CBD oils featured above are the top and runner-up products ranked in Forbes Health’s list of the best CBD oils. Our product selection process involved data analysis of more than 100 U.S.-sourced CBD products featuring the best pricing, flavors and high-quality ingredients available. Eight metrics including CBD potency and gluten-free, vegan and non-GMO ingredients were considered for this ranking.
With our initial product list established, Forbes Health sent our top-ranked products to Nova Labs for additional quality and safety testing. Oils were scrutinized for the following aspects:
CBD potency
THC potency
Potencies of minor cannabinoid types
Presence or absence and types of terpenes
Detection of pesticides, mycotoxins, microbial and heavy metals
To finalize product selection, Forbes Health staff compared COAs on manufacturer websites with those provided by Nova Labs to ensure maximum safety.
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services. Enjoy 25% Off Your Order 	Using Code FORBES25	Aspen Green Lemon Calm Organic Full Spectrum CBD OilUSDA Certified Organic Hemp/CBD products formulated with pure ingredients grown in ColoradoContains organic extracts such as Tulsi, Chamomile, Lemon Balm, and AshwagandhaCreated to help create a sense of relaxation and alleviate stressPhysician Formulated with Chief Medical Advisor from The Mayo Clinic8 third-party lab tests to create products users can trust 	Shop Now	On Aspen Green's Website
How to Choose the Best CBD for Anxiety and Stress
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) doesn’t approve or test retail CBD products for quality or potency, meaning consumers are responsible for selecting the best product to meet their needs. Further complicating matters, some retail CBD products have been found to be mislabeled regarding potency, as well as purity. A 2017 study in JAMA Network indicates that, among 84 independently tested retail CBD products, 26% contained less CBD than the label claimed, and 43% contained more CBD compared to the label.[1]Bonn-Miller MO, Loflin MJE, Thomas BF, et al. Labeling Accuracy of Cannabidiol Extracts Sold Online. JAMA. 2017;318(17):1708-1709.
Knowing the signs of a high-quality CBD product for anxiety and stress is therefore extremely important prior to purchase or consumption.
Factors that may indicate a product is high quality include:
USDA-certified organic seal
Label indicates the product is non-GMO and contains all-natural ingredients
Certificate of analysis (COA) is easily accessible, demonstrating potency and safety
Company doesn’t make unsupported health claims
Manufacturer provides specific dosage information
Whether the CBD is processed to be water soluble
A health care professional familiar with using CBD for anxiety may be able to help you choose the highest quality product for your needs.
Types of CBD for Anxiety
Retail CBD products are available in three forms: CBD isolate, broad-spectrum CBD and full-spectrum CBD, which differ based on extraction and processing methods. While CBD isolate contains exclusively CBD, broad-spectrum and full-spectrum CBD contain additional cannabinoids and active plant constituents, such as terpenes. Meanwhile, broad-spectrum CBD is processed to contain non-detectable levels of THC while full-spectrum CBD contains all naturally occurring cannabinoids, including up to 0.3% THC by dry weight.
Personal preference comes into play regarding the type of CBD product an individual prefers, from beverage to edible gummy to oil and more.
Recommended CBD Dosage for Anxiety
There’s no established CBD dosage for anxiety management. Manufacturers typically include a recommended dose on the product packaging and/or website, and CBD consumers should read these instructions carefully.
CBD may also be absorbed more effectively when taken with food, according to Dr. McNally, which may be important when considering one’s optimal dosage. Experts generally recommend starting at a low dosage and increasing that amount slowly over time to avoid unwanted side effects.
CBD Risks and Side Effects
According to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), orally administered CBD products like CBD gummies and CBD oils may cause uncomfortable or harmful side effects, including:
Diarrhea
Nausea
Decreased mental alertness/sedation
Fatigue
Mood changes, such as irritability
Liver injury
Male reproductive harm
Drug interactions
Always speak to a health care provider familiar with your medical history and any medications you’re taking before adding a retail CBD product to your wellness regimen to limit the potential for negative side effects.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Does CBD really do anything for anxiety?
Research is sparse when it comes to using CBD for anxiety and stress relief, and additional clinical trials are necessary. Still, emerging research is promising. If you’re interested in trying CBD to manage anxiety, speak with a health care provider prior to adding it to your wellness routine.
What level of CBD is good for anxiety?
No specific CBD dosage exists for the treatment of anxiety. For best results, follow the manufacturer’s recommended dose, and consult a health care professional for personalized guidance. Many experts recommend starting with a low dose and building from there.
Which form of CBD is best for anxiety?
The best form of CBD is largely a matter of personal preference. CBD oils are ingested straight into the bloodstream, which makes their effects more immediate over a shorter duration. CBD gummies, on the other hand, can have a more pleasing taste yet a slower release over a longer duration.
Consult a health care professional before deciding which form of CBD is best used to alleviate your anxiety symptoms.
Sources
Footnotes
Bonn-Miller MO, Loflin MJE, Thomas BF, et al.
Labeling Accuracy of Cannabidiol Extracts Sold Online. JAMA. 2017;318(17):1708-1709.
References
Stanciu CN, Brunette MF, Teja N, Budney AJ.
Evidence for Use of Cannabinoids in Mood Disorders, Anxiety Disorders, and PTSD: A Systematic Review.
Psychiatr Serv. 2021;72(4):429-436.
Hemp Production and the 2018 Farm Bill.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Accessed 1/15/2025.
Skelley JW, Deas CM, Curren Z, Ennis J.
Use of cannabidiol in anxiety and anxiety-related disorders.
J Am Pharm Assoc (2003). 2020;60(1):253-261.
Cannabidiol (CBD) – Potential Harms, Side Effects and Unknowns.
SAMHSA Advisory. Accessed 1/15/2025.
Evans DG.
Medical Fraud, Mislabeling, Contamination: All Common in CBD Products.
Mo Med. 2020;117(5):394-399.
Lucas CJ, Galettis P, Schneider J.
The pharmacokinetics and the pharmacodynamics of cannabinoids.
Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2018;84(11).
Grinspoon P.
Cannabidiol (CBD): What we know and what we don't.
Harvard Health Publishing. Accessed 6/16/2025.
Next Up In CBD
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD Oils
Best CBD Creams
Best CBD Products For Sleep
Best CBD Products For Pain Management
Aspen Green CBD Review
Cornbread Hemp CBD Review
Lazarus Naturals CBD Review
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for Forbes Health, Meaghan loves practicing yoga, reading and spending time with her family near the ocean in her home state of Maine.
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and Bankrate. When she isn’t writing or editing, you can find Sarah with her nose in a book or enjoying the outdoors with her French bulldog, Honey.
Jessica Cho, M.D.
Integrative Medicine
For the past 25 years, Dr. Jessica Cho practiced medicine with a single mission: Help patients attain wellness and create a life full of joy, vitality and balance. As a physician, her passion is to educate and empower her patients. Her medical expertise is rooted in integrative treatments with a command of both Western and Eastern medicine. Her interdisciplinary background enables a variety of tools that help patients achieve success as she delves into the root causes of their challenges to understand why and how. She founded Wellness at Century City in Los Angeles in 2000, and she has been consistently recognized as one of the nation’s top doctors in integrative medicine and is known for her unparalleled success in promoting well-being in her patients. Philanthropy is her life’s purpose—for decades, she has traveled globally to serve the underserved in various free clinics and refugee camps on medical missions, as well as in her local Los Angeles area serving in free clinics for communities in need.
Find The Best CBD Products
Best CBD Oil
Best CBD Gummies
Best CBD for Pain
Best CBD for Sleep
Best CBD Creams
CBD Benefits
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise