5 Investments You Don’t Really Need | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Key Takeaways
Investments Everyone Should Have in Their Portfolio
Why Real Estate Doesn’t Have a Good Diversification Benefit
Why Investors Don’t Need Sector Funds
How Investors May Be Duplicating Their Exposure With Thematic Funds
Why Long-Term Bonds Could Lead to More Volatility in Your Portfolio
Why Investors Don’t Always Need High-Yield Bonds
Home
Portfolios
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Plus, which core building blocks every portfolio should have.
Christine Benz
and
Margaret Giles
Sep 25, 2025
Share
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Watch
Key TakeawaysThe key ingredients for a portfolio would be some kind of equity exposure, some type of fixed-income exposure, and some basic cash investments.What we’ve seen from real estate equities is kind of a steady upward march in correlations with the broad US equity market over the past couple of decades, to the point where I really don’t see the diversification benefit.When we look at investor timing, the cash flows in and out of sector funds is not a pretty picture.With thematic funds, oftentimes the themes are very much duplicated when we look at the broad market and are made after a good performance run.Investors could be getting a lot more volatility on an ongoing basis with a long-term bond portfolio.From a correlation and diversification standpoint, investors don’t need to go out of their way to add junk bonds or high-yield bonds to their portfolios.Margaret Giles: Hi, I’m Margaret Giles of Morningstar. Building a successful investment portfolio can be as much about what you don’t add as what you do. Joining me to discuss five investment types that most investors can do without is Christine Benz. Christine is Morningstar’s director of personal finance and retirement planning. Christine, thanks for being here.Christine Benz: Margaret, great to see you.Investments Everyone Should Have in Their PortfolioGiles: So before we get into what to skip, what are the essential ingredients that every investor should have in their portfolio? Benz: Right. I’ve got these minimalist portfolios for retirees and people who are still working. The key ingredients would be some kind of equity exposure. I like broad market equity exposure, both US and perhaps more controversially non-US. I would say that’s an essential ingredient for people at all life stages, just that core equity exposure. And then from there, you might think about some type of fixed-income exposure, and that gets more essential as you move past age 50. I think adding in some stabilizer to the equity portfolio makes a lot of sense. You have an investment type with, yes, return potential that might not be that great, but much lower volatility than you have with equities. And then finally, just some basic cash investments that you need to meet your emergency expenses. Or if you are someone who is in retirement drawdown, I like the idea of holding a couple of portfolio withdrawals in cash on an ongoing basis to help protect you against a market like 2022 when both stocks and bonds fell at the same time.Why Real Estate Doesn’t Have a Good Diversification BenefitGiles: So stepping away from those core building blocks and moving over to the ones that investors can maybe skip, you think that real estate equities are a category that investors can just leave on the cutting-room floor. Why is that?Benz: Yeah, we do this Diversification Landscape report where we look at correlations among major asset classes. And I’ve been on the sector fund beat for the past several years. And I’ve been looking at real estate. I remember earlier in my career, it was sort of like a must-have for portfolios. But what we’ve seen from real estate equities is kind of a steady upward march in correlations with the broad US equity market over the past couple of decades, to the point where I really don’t see the diversification benefit. You might hold real estate because of their dividend yields or because they get cheap at various points in time. But from a correlation standpoint, I don’t see a great case for carving out an ongoing allocation to real estate. And another point I would make, Margaret, is that many people have some real estate in their total household financial capital. They have home equity. And so while real estate equities are different, they’re not necessarily going to behave exactly as your home equity will. It probably will move in sympathy. And so that’s another reason I think most investors don’t need to go overboard with real estate equities.Why Investors Don’t Need Sector FundsGiles: Right. So you mentioned you’re on the sector beat. You’re also not very keen on some of those other sector funds. Why not?Benz: Yeah. One of the reasons is that when we look at investor timing, the cash flows in and out of sector funds, not a pretty picture, that investors often glom on to them after the sector has always already had a really good performance run. And then from a correlation standpoint, yes, we see correlations for certain categories looking pretty low relative to the broad equity market at various points in time. So right now, for example, energy has been the correlations champ. But what I see when I look at the data is that those low correlations tend to be pretty ephemeral, that a correlation that looked low when we look back over the past three or five years might change around and might go back to being closely correlated with a broad US equity market. So I just don’t think you can take any one sector’s low correlations with the market to the bank in terms of constructing a portfolio.How Investors May Be Duplicating Their Exposure With Thematic FundsGiles: And in a related vein, you think investors can also easily skip thematic investments. So why is that?Benz: Yeah, I’ve been keeping an eye on our team’s work on various thematic ETFs. And one thing we see is that, as with sector funds, a lot of the launches tend to occur after a theme has already had a good performance run. It’s good for asset managers to sell those products, but it’s not necessarily good for investors to buy into them.And then another thing I see when I look at the thematic fund universe is that oftentimes the themes are very much duplicated when we look at the broad market. So for example, think of AI—right now, that seems like the can’t-miss theme that you need to have in your portfolio. Well, guess what? If you have a broad US equity market index, you’ve got plenty of exposure to the AI theme right there. So oftentimes, I think investors are doubling down on some exposures that they’re already heavily weighted toward.Why Long-Term Bonds Could Lead to More Volatility in Your PortfolioGiles: Right, and perhaps missing the timing on them as well. Exactly. For sure. So let’s move over to bonds for a little bit. There are a few categories that you think investors can really do without. Let’s start with one that maybe might not seem as obvious, and that is long-term bonds. So what’s the major drawback there?Benz: Yeah, so with the correlations, it’s a little bit of a mixed picture. In a recessionary environment, a repeat of the great financial crisis, for example, long bonds performed really well during that environment. But there are other periods when stocks have gone down when long bonds haven’t looked so great. So 2022 was a great example of that. So they’re not foolproof diversifiers for equities. And then when we look at performance, what we see is a performance pattern that tends to be equitylike in terms of its volatility.So I took a quick peek, Margaret, at kind of a US long-term Treasury index. The standard deviation over the past three years has been 15 versus a standard deviation of 6 for a core bond, like a total bond market index. So you’re getting a lot more volatility on an ongoing basis with that long-term bond portfolio. I think you can get yourself some good diversifying characteristics by just holding a core fixed-income portfolio, I don’t think you necessarily need to go out of your way to be adding long-term bond exposure.Why Investors Don’t Always Need High-Yield BondsGiles: That makes a lot of sense. So lastly, high yield is another category in the bond area that you think investors can really skip. So most retirees like income. What are the disadvantages?Benz: Yeah. And I wouldn’t rule out the idea of holding a little bit of high-yield bonds around the margins of my portfolio. Again, coming back to that diversification landscape paper, high-yield bonds don’t look great relative to equities as a diversifier. So a high-quality fixed-income portfolio, a total bond market index looks like a great diversifier, but high-yield bonds tend to be pretty well correlated to the equity market. When stocks are down, high-yield bonds are often down for the same reasons. So I wouldn’t necessarily think that, from a correlation and diversification standpoint, think that investors need to go out of their way to add junk bonds or high-yield bonds to their portfolios.Giles: All right. So five different areas to consider avoiding. Christine, thanks for the time.Benz: Thank you so much, Margaret.Giles: I’m Margaret Giles with Morningstar. Thanks for watching.Watch What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio for more from Christine Benz and Margaret Giles.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Portfolios
View All
Are You Making These 5 Common Portfolio Mistakes? Identifying problems in real-world portfolios—and how to fix them.
Christine Benz Sep 24, 2025
How to Use Cash in a Portfolio A look at the pros and cons of the safest asset class, plus our favorite options.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global? Plus: 4 top-rated global 60/40 funds to consider.
Jason Kephart and Susan Dziubinski Sep 18, 2025
About the Authors
View All Authors
Christine Benz Director
More from Author
Christine Benz is director of personal finance and retirement planning for Morningstar. She is also the author of How to Retire: 20 Lessons for a Happy, Successful, and Wealthy Retirement. Email Christine at christine.benz@morningstar.com. She reads all of the emails she receives but doesn't always have time to send a personal response.
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Christine Benz Sep 25, 2025
Are You Making These 5 Common Portfolio Mistakes?
Christine Benz Sep 24, 2025
Dana Anspach and Fritz Gilbert: ‘This Is What a Joyful Retirement Could Feel Like’
Christine Benz Sep 23, 2025
How to Calibrate Your Target Savings Rate
Christine Benz Sep 22, 2025
What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio
Christine Benz Sep 18, 2025
Why Index Funds and ETFs Are Good for Retirees
Christine Benz Sep 17, 2025
Larry Jacobson: ‘The Good Things in Our Life Are What Get in the Way of Great Things’
Christine Benz Sep 16, 2025
Cage Match: Traditional Index Funds vs. ETFs
Christine Benz Sep 14, 2025
FAQs on RMDs: What Retirees Need to Know
Christine Benz Sep 11, 2025
Are Target-Date Funds Good Investments?
Christine Benz Sep 10, 2025
Margaret Giles Editor
More from Author
Margaret Giles is a senior editor of content development for Morningstar.
The Best Financial-Services Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 25, 2025
5 Investments You Don’t Really Need
Christine Benz Sep 25, 2025
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now
Margaret Giles Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Defensive Stocks to Buy
Tori Brovet Sep 22, 2025
10 Best Growth Stocks to Buy for the Long Term
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 19, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio
Christine Benz Sep 18, 2025
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
The Best Communication-Services Stocks to Buy
Margaret Giles Sep 15, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility