Best Air Fryers of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeKitchen & Household Small Appliances
Best Air Fryers of 2025: We Tested 20 Models to Find the 7 Best in 2025
We've tested air fryers at ever price, both large and small, to find the seven best to buy for your kitchen.
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Article updated on July 16, 2025 at 8:00 AM PDT
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If you’re aiming to eat healthier without giving up on flavor or convenience, an air fryer is the perfect companion. They use less oil to achieve the same crispy and caramelized texture you get from pan-frying, roasting, and broiling. To help you find the best, I've tested models from Ninja, De’Longhi, Breville, Phillips, Cosori and Dash.
Our Picks
Best air fryer overall Ninja Crispi glass air fryer
Jump to details
$160 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best air-frying toaster oven Our Place Wonder Oven
Jump to details
$155 at Our Place
Jump to details
Best air fryer under $100 Ninja 4-quart air fryer
Jump to details
$69 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best air fryer and multicooker Instant Pot Duo Crisp
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best splurge air fryer Breville Smart Oven Air
Jump to details
$350 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best small air fryer for beginners Dash 2-quart air fryer
Jump to details
$50 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best air fryer for large families Ninja Foodi DualZone air fryer
Jump to details
$160 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 2 more
Table of Contents
Best Air Fryers of 2025: We Tested 20 Models to Find the 7 Best in 2025
What's the best air fryer overall?
Best air fryers of 2025
Best air fryer overall
Best air-frying toaster oven
Best air fryer under $100
Best air fryer and multicooker
Best splurge air fryer
Best small air fryer for beginners
Best air fryer for large families
Recent updates
Other air fryers we tested
How we test air fryers
What health experts say about air fryers
Buying guide: What to consider when choosing an air fryer
From cooking whole chickens to crisping up chickpeas, vegetables or salmon, air fryers handle it all with ease. I make no secret of my love for air fryers, and I've been testing various models for more than five years. My list of favorite things to make in the air fryer grows by the week, but choosing the right countertop oven to make them isn't as simple as it seems. What's the best air fryer overall?
NinjaWhen Ninja released its Ninja glass-bowl Crispi, we got a new favorite air fryer on our list after two years. The Crispi has loads of power and is easy to clean, plus the cooking chamber doubles as a portable food container. This is hands down the best air fryer to buy in 2025. And guess what? It's available for just $180 -- a bargain.The dynamic glass Crispi is the air fryer we now recommend most, but there are several other picks to choose from that cost less, hold more food or feature additional cooking modes and methods not available on that model.
With the Ninja Crispi, food is ready to be packed away or brought to a party as soon as it's done without dirtying another dish.  Pamela Vachon/CNETRead more: The Air Fryer Is the Best and Fastest Way to Make a Roast Chicken Best air fryers of 2025
Ninja
Photo Gallery 1/4
Ninja
Best air fryer overall
Ninja Crispi glass air fryer
Pros
Glass cooking chamber is easy to clean
Can view your food's progress without stopping
Cooking chamber turns into a sealed food container
Simple controls
Cons
Glass gets hot during and after cooking
Pricier than others on the list
No precise control of temperature
What I liked:Our new favorite air fryer comes from the makers of our old favorite. The glass bowl Ninja offers several advantages over metal and nonstick cooking baskets. First, you can see your food while it's being cooked. After cooking, the glass bottom chamber converts to a sealable food carrier when you pop on a rubber lid. As a bonus, the Ninja Crispi's glass cooking chamber was the easiest to get squeaky clean of all the air fryers we've tested. Unlike most air fryers that utilize a basket that slides in and out of the machine, this air fryer has a cooking mechanism that clamps down on one of the included 4-quart or 6-cup containers. The powerful coils cooked everything we put inside to a perfect, even crisp. Four simple cooking modes -- warm, reheat, bake, and air fry -- and the adjustable timer made using the machine a breeze.Who is it for:It's the best air fryer for those who are particular about getting their kitchen tools squeaky clean. It's also the best air fryer for anyone concerned about nonstick coatings and the potential hazards they present.Who should avoid it:The one downside, aside from the high price, is that the glass chamber gets and stays pretty hot both during and after cooking, which could present a danger to careless cooks or those with small children. The glass bowls are equipped with stay-cool handles for handling and transporting the air fryer.
... Show more
Get it now
$160 at Amazon
$160 at Best Buy
$160 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Capacity
4-quart and 6-cup containersDimensions (inches)
13.39D x 11.97W x 13.58HAdditional modes
Bake, recrisp, max crispMax temp.
450 FColors available
Blue, gray, sage, periwinkle, stone Price
$160
Add to compare
Our Place
Photo Gallery 1/4
Our Place
Best air-frying toaster oven
Our Place Wonder Oven
Pros
Modest size is good for crowded kitchens
Air fryer function was great
Able to do gentle toasting in addition to powerful air-frying
Fun retro look and available in a range of colors
Steam function helps keep food moist
Cons
There are definitely cheaper options available
Air fryer toaster ovens aren't as easy to clean
What I liked:A conveniently sized, PFAS-free, countertop-worthy appliance that can air fry, bake, roast, toast, reheat and broil -- all with steam infusion technology for crispy exteriors and soft, moist interiors. It does everything, from ultra-crispy air frying to serious roasting, to rejuvenating steam infusion. It’s fairly spacious, although certainly not the largest oven we tried. You could roast a roughly 4-pound chicken or go multilevel to cook double the capacity of a stand-alone air fryer. This oven allows you to Who is it for:If you have trouble keeping your air-fryer food from drying out, the Wonder Oven is the only model on our list with a steam function that helps keep food moist while it's being blasted with superconvection heat.Who should avoid it:The modest capacity means you may have to cook food in batches. If you regularly feed a large crowd, consider upgrading to a larger air fryer or air-frying toaster oven.  ... Show more
Get it now
$155 at Our Place
Specs & Configurations
Capacity
13 quartsDimensions (inches)
11.6H x 10.6D x 11.5WAdditional modes
Bake, toast, broil, roast, reheatMax temp.
450 FColors available
Beige, gray, blue, salmonPrice
$185
Add to compare
Ninja
Photo Gallery 1/4
Ninja
Best air fryer under $100
Ninja 4-quart air fryer
Pros
Has major power and cooked food faster than any other air fryer we tested
The build is sturdy
Controls are simple
At $69, it's an excellent value
Cons
Its shiny plastic body shows fingerprints easily
What I liked:Ninja's sleek and efficient pod air fryer impressed us in several rounds of testing. At $69, it's a clear pick for the best budget air fryer in 2025. The Ninja is powerful, easy to operate, looks great and is reasonably priced. We tested both the 4-quart model and the otherwise identical 5.5-quart model (perfect for roasting a whole chicken). There were no discernible differences in performance between the two. The Ninja turned out the best chicken wings of any air fryer we cooked them in. It seems to run a little hotter than other models of its size, but I consider that a good thing. Air frying is about getting the outside crispy without drying out the middle, and you need a blast of hot convection to do it. Who is it for:Those seeking a budget-friendly basket-style air fryer with lots of power. The Ninja's control panel is simple and intuitive. Beyond flicking on the air fryer, there are a handful of presets and cooking modes, including bake and reheat, that are perfect for warming bread or reviving leftover pizza without burning it. Who should avoid it:This air fryer sports a nonstick basket, so if you're worried about chemical leaching or the coating wearing out over time, choose Ninja's glass-bowl air fryer instead. One other thing to note is that the Ninja lacks a special cooking mode for vegetables. Much as in earlier rounds of testing, the fresh Brussels sprouts emerged a tad overdone -- even burnt in spots. This simply requires a little more checking when you're air-frying certain foods for the first time.  ... Show more
Get it now
$69 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Capacity
4 quartsDimensions (inches)
13.6D x 11W x 13.3HAdditional modes
Roast, reheat, dehydrateMax temp.
400 FColors available
Gun metal, black, whitePrice
$69
Add to compare
Instant Pot
Photo Gallery 1/4
Instant Pot
Best air fryer and multicooker
Instant Pot Duo Crisp
Pros
Air fryer and pressure cooker both work great
Great value considering how much it does
Cons
Difficult to clean after air frying
Heavier than solo air fryers
What I like:This Instant Pot model is a pressure cooker, slow cooker, and air fryer with sear and steam functions, to boot. I found the air fryer function worked as well or better than most of the solo air fryers I tested. Instant Pot's Duo model made incredible crispy "fried" chicken, wings, veggies, and other classics, but know that you'll likely have to cook in batches if you're making food for a group. It's also a solid deal considering all this machine does. The Duo Crisp can often be found for $150 or cheaper if you nab it on sale.Who is it for:If you're eyeing an air fryer but also an Instant Pot or another multicooker, let me save you some money and kitchen space. The Instant Pot Duo does all the work of the popular multicooker -- pressure cooker, slow cooker, steam and saute -- but comes with a separate air fryer lid and cooking function as well.Who should avoid it:It's worth noting that the air fryer cooking capacity is relatively small, even if the full chamber for pressure and slow cooking is large. Another thing I didn't love about this model is the steel air fryer basket, which is trickier to clean than the pod-shaped models, most of which feature nonstick cooking baskets.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
$150 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Capacity
6 litersDimensions (inches)
13.58D x 13.58W x 13.97HAdditional modes
Pressure cook, slow cook, steam, saute, searMax temp.
450 FColors available
ChromePrice
$150
Add to compare
Breville
Photo Gallery 1/5
Breville
Best splurge air fryer
Breville Smart Oven Air
Pros
Sleek design and consistent function
Close to a replacement for your wall oven
Preheats fast
Great for holidays or when extra cooking capacity is needed
Cons
Expensive
A large cooking chamber makes it harder to get that true air fryer crust.
The air fryer function isn't as powerful as some others we tried
What I like:Breville's stylish Smart Oven Air is our favorite air fryer and toaster combo. This isn't just a proficient air fryer but a mini version of a smart oven that can handle a small chicken, as many as four filets of salmon or a tray of homemade cookies. Most likely because of its size, the Smart Oven Air took a little bit longer to get crispy chicken wings and Brussels sprouts, but only by a few minutes. Who is it for:If you want a countertop appliance that can do far more than wings and wedges, this is a whole lot of oven capability. The Breville heats very consistently and has a wealth of cooking modes -- toast, bagel, bake, roast, broil, warm, reheat, air fry -- making it about as good a replacement for your big oven as any. This makes a great supplement to your large oven during holidays and other occasions where extra cooking capacity is welcomed. Who should avoid it:If you like a toaster oven and are just looking for an air fryer, this probably isn't the pick.  ... Show more
Get it now
$350 at Amazon
$350 at Best Buy
$350 at QVC
Specs & Configurations
Capacity
0.8 cubic feetDimensions (inches)
15.9D x 18.9W x 10.9HAdditional modes
Bake, toast, broil, reheat, warm, pizzaMax temp.
425 FColors available
Black, black stainless steel, chrome, blue, olive, redPrice
$350
Add to compare
Gourmia
Photo Gallery 1/1
Gourmia
Best small air fryer for beginners
Dash 2-quart air fryer
Pros
Light and easy to move around the kitchen
Good power despite a compact 2-quart size
Comes in 5 colors
Has a fun retro look
Cons
Small 2-quart capacity is not ideal for large groups or families
What I like:As the award suggests, this air fryer is small. About as small as any brand makes them. If you're only cooking for one or two people, it may be enough capacity and will save you precious space on the counter. The Dash has enough power to make eight or nine crispy chicken wings in about 20 minutes and a few servings of fries in about half that time. The single analog dial is easy to manipulate, and there is just one mode -- air fry -- to keep things uncomplicated. For an air fryer under $50, this model is fairly solid, and the basket fits snugly into the hull without any wobble. It's also easy to clean and quiet when running.  Who is it for:If you're after pure value, the Dash performs well and will cost less than $50. It's also perfect for smaller kitchens or those wanting to test out an air fryer without committing much money or kitchen space. Who should avoid it:If you're cooking for more than two or three people, this air fryer won't be big enough.
... Show more
Get it now
$50 at Amazon
$50 at Dash
Specs & Configurations
Capacity
2 quartsDimensions (inches)
8.1D x 10.2W x 11.4HAdditional modes
NoneMax temp.
450 FColors available
White, black, teal, red, grayPrice
$50
Add to compare
Woot
Photo Gallery 1/1
Woot
Best air fryer for large families
Ninja Foodi DualZone air fryer
Pros
Dual basket design allows you to cook multiple foods at once
Huge capacity for making big batches of food for crowds
Cons
Takes up a lot of space in the kitchen
Expensive for an air fryer
What I like:A dual-basket air fryer allows you to cook most of an entire meal in one go without fear of burning one thing or undercooking the other. Smaller baskets net better results when air frying, so I suggest a dual-basket as opposed to an oven with one single, large cooking chamber. This model has all the same settings and cooking modes as Ninja's single-basket model, but allows you to toggle between both baskets to set the time and temp accordingly. There's also a handy match-cook setting if you're doing one huge heap of wings in both baskets. While Instant also makes a formidable version, Ninja's 8-quart (two 4-quart baskets) is our top pick. It sports tons of power at a great price. As with the single-basket Ninja, this machine feels rock solid, and the baskets slide in firmly with no wiggle. Who is it for:This is the perfect air fryer for those who regularly cook for big groups. You can make double batches of wings or cook two recipes at once for a full meal without having to do it in batches or worry about overcooking one of the recipes.Who should avoid it:This is a massive air fryer and will dominate whatever part of the countertop you keep it on. If you don't regularly cook for large groups, opt for one of the smaller, less expensive models on our list. This dual-basket model also has a smaller 6-quart model (two 3-quart baskets) and a massive 10-quart version (two 5-quart baskets) available.Want more info? Check out our full review of the Ninja Foodi Dual-Basket air fryer.   ... Show more
Get it now
$160 at Amazon
$164 at Best Buy
$180 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Capacity
8 quartsDimensions (inches)
13.86D x 15.63W x 12.4HAdditional modes
Broil, roast, bake, reheat, dehydrateMax temp.
450 FColors available
GrayPrice
$160
Add to compareRecent updates
July 2025The Ninja Crispi glass air fryer was tested and added as best air fryer overallThe Ninja 4-quart air fryer was tested and added as the best air fryer under $75The Our Place Wonder Oven was tested and added as the best air fryer and toaster ovenCompare air fryers
Air fryerSizeWattageControlsCooking modesPrice Ninja Crispi glass air fryer 4 quarts1,500DigitalAir fry, recrisp, reheat, mac crisp$160Ninja 4- or 6-quart air fryer 4 quarts1,550DigitalAir fry, roast, reheat, dehydrate$69Dash 2-quart air fryer 2 quarts1,500AnalogAir fry, roast, bake, dehydrate$50Ninja Foodi DualZone air fryer 8 quarts (total)1,690DigitalAir fry, broil, bake, dehydrate, roast, reheat$200Instant Pot Duo Crisp 6 quarts1,000DigitalPressure cook, slow cook, air fry, roast, steam, bake, broil, warm, sauté$150Breville Smart Oven Air 0.8 cubic feet1,800DigitalToast, broil, bake, roast, warm, pizza, air fry, reheat, slow cook$350
The Instant Pot Duo Crisp air fryer and multicooker turned out some excellent air-fried chicken. David Watsky/CNET Other air fryers we tested
Dreo Chefmaker: This souped-up air fryer has a built-in thermometer and tons of smart features. It works ggreen t but I found myself just using the basic air fryer function which makes it hard to justify the $359 price.Dash Tasti-Crisp: I don't have major complaints with this model's function, but it feels a little flimsy for $60.Crux Marshmello: This compact 3-quart air fryer did well in testing and the cooking basket was easy to clean. I wasn't a fan of the control panels, which sport cutesy LED images in place of words, and it wasn't abundantly clear what each one was for.  Phillips air fryer: I had no issues with this air fryer and liked the sleek design and intuitive controls. It performed similarly to the Ninja 4-quart but that model, our top budget pick, costs $100 less.
The Crux air fryer performed well but the control panel was a little too cute for its own good.  David Watsky/CNETPowerXL Air Fryer: This is another small air fryer that did well in testing, but I prefer the controls and sleek design of the more budget-friendly Gourmia 2-quart.
InstantInstant Vortex: One popular option is the Instant Vortex. It's priced in line with the other air fryers in this group. The Vortex is made by the same company that created the groundbreaking Instant Pot electric pressure cooker. Despite that, I wasn't blown away by its results. Chicken wings and fried chicken were acceptable but not incredible and less juicy than what other fryers produced. My Brussels sprouts ended up overdone too, and frozen fries cooked unevenly. Dash Compact Air Fryer: We found the Dash Compact Air Fryer to be underpowered. While the larger Dash Deluxe is a powerhouse, the Dash Compact struggled to air-fry almost everything we put inside it. Both french fries and Brussels sprouts were under-done and unevenly cooked. The only bright spot was chicken wings. They took 30 minutes, but I was treated to skin with some crunch.  GoWise USA 8-in-1 Digital Air Fryer: You may not have heard of this brand, but this offering from GoWise is a solid choice. It didn't cook the skin of my chicken wings evenly. That said, french fries came out crispy and crunchy, with fluffy interiors. The fryer also roasted Brussels sprouts well, no mean feat for this group of appliances.
Enlarge Image
Brian Bennett/CNETChefman 3.5 qt. Analog Air Fryer: Another relatively affordable choice is the Chefman Analog Air Fryer. It's tiny, too, offering just 3.5 quarts of food-frying capacity. The appliance delivered decent chicken wings, but it undercooked the Brussels sprouts and frozen french fries. We also found the Chefman's timer control confusing. This dial is labeled in numerical increments of 10. The numbers are separated by groups of four dots, not nine, as you would expect. PowerXL Vortex Air Fryer: You might consider purchasing the PowerXL Vortex, but we recommend against it due to its steep price and mediocre frying performance. We had satisfactory results cooking chicken wings in it, but this machine overcooked Brussels sprouts, and the french fries were just OK. DeLonghi Rapid Crisp: The DeLonghi Rapid Crisp was one of the most expensive models we tested, and it just didn't live up to the price tag. While I liked the design and sturdy build and appreciated the small viewing window for watching the cooking progress, I found the buttons and interface clunky. There was no way to set an actual cooking temp, only presets, and even those weren't very intuitive.
David Watsky/CNETBeautiful Air Fryer by Drew Barrymore: This air fryer offering from the actor's new kitchen line performed well in the four rounds of testing. It showed good power and cooked chicken wings to a nice crispy outside and kept them juicy inside after about 25 minutes. The air fryer's interface is slick, although I liked the Ninja's simpler control panel more, which is one of a few reasons it edged out this unit for best air fryer overall. This is a great option and is about $30 cheaper than the Ninja. It also has a pleasing design with smooth matte plastic (which does smudge a bit).
How we test air fryers
The Cosori Lite made some mighty tasty wings in 30 minutes.  David Watsky/CNETTo date, we've tested well over a dozen air fryers to curate this list. Each air fryer is evaluated for its power, consistency, ease of use, design, features and overall performance. In total, we've logged results for more than 20 air fryers and over 75 hours of air fryer testing.There are hundreds of recipes that can be made with an air fryer but we stuck to the basics and focused on the most popular foods people associate with air fryers. Chicken wings are at the top of that list, but french fries, frozen snacks and dense vegetables -- in this case, Brussels sprouts -- are air fryer food staples. Before we began, we consulted each model's manual for relevant cooking directions. If the manual didn't provide specific instructions, we applied uniform procedures to each air fryer depending on the type of food we were preparing.
You can make a whole roasted chicken in your air fryer.
David Watsky/CNETFor chicken wings, we followed a basic air fryer recipe. First, we preheated the air fryer to 400 degrees Fahrenheit and cooked them for 25 minutes in the basket with the included tray, then checked on them and turned them every 8 minutes. Most of the air fryers we tested had a solid showing in the wing test, although some, including the powerful Ninja and Cosori Lite models, got the wings a bit crispier in that amount of time. For Brussels sprouts, we preheated the ovens to 375 degrees Fahrenheit and cooked them for 15 minutes. Before cooking, we rinsed and cut the sprouts in half and tossed them with 1 tablespoon of olive oil. In this test, some ovens struggled to brown the outside of the sprouts, but most got there eventually.
Dense Brussels sprouts are a popular air fryer food. Soft and watery veggies such as zucchini and mushrooms may turn to mush under this type of intense heat. David Watsky/CNETFor the french fry test, we opted for Alexia's frozen crinkle-cut fries and cooked 1 cup, according to the air fryer directions on the bag. Quick note: Be careful when cooking fries in an air fryer as some types, especially thinner-cut fries, can dry out easily when hit with super-convection. We recommend heftier waffle fries, tater tots, crinkle cut or potato wedges over the shoestring variety.
The Duo Crisp with Ultimate Lid turned out equally browned sweet potato fries as as olo air fryer in the same amount of time. David Watsky/CNETAt the end of each test, we looked for how evenly the items were cooked, if they were cooked through and whether they had a sufficient level of crispy, crunchy, fried goodness comparable to deep frying or pan frying. Ease of use
I liked the top placement of the control panel on the Cosori Lite air fryer.  David Watsky/CNETBeyond cooking performance, how easy an air fryer is to operate and how intuitive the buttons and controls were something we observed closely during testing. Overly complicated settings, controls and presets didn't generally result in high marks, but certain features were appreciated. All air fryers have base-level control over the temperature and cook time, although some are controlled digitally while others require the crank of simple manual dials. From there, you'll find preset programs for various foods such as wings, fries, fish, veggies and even baked goods.
You can see your food while it's being cooked in the Ninja Crispi air fryer.  David Watsky/CNETHow well they cook To get a sense of how each air fryer in this test group handles, we ran a battery of three tests on each model. Each test focused on one food: chicken wings, Brussels sprouts and frozen french fries.
Most air fryers we tested passed the French fries test, although it's critical to check on them frequently so you don't overcook and dry them out.  David Watsky/CNET What health experts say about air fryers
How healthy cooking with an air fryer is depends on what you put in it.
David Watsky/CNETThe Cleveland Clinic: "They [air fryers] won't magically remove the saturated fat from bacon or the trans fats from a bag of processed chicken wings. To reap the benefits, reach for better-for-you options like vegetables and lean proteins....Think of the air fryer as a way to enhance healthier foods, so they're even more tempting."Medical News Today: "Research on the effects of air-fried food is promising. Air fryers appear to be a healthy alternative, offering flavors similar to fried food with fewer adverse effects."British Heart Foundation: "If you often eat deep-fried foods, switching to an air fryer could be helpful." Buying guide: What to consider when choosing an air fryer
An air fryer can bring efficiency and simplicity to your nightly meal routine. It's easy to make a quick and delicious meal with the best air fryers in your kitchen. They are not only healthier than an oven but also use less energy. Check out the complete guide to air fryers to learn more about these great kitchen appliances. Pod-shaped air fryers vs. air-frying toasters
Air frying toaster ovens have advantages but they typically take longer to cook and the inner cavity can be tricky to clean if food splatters.  David Watsky/CNETWhile the idea of a toaster oven that doubles as an air fryer is a good one, and the air frying function on many of the hybrid machines is proficient, certain foods we love cooking in an air fryer are too messy to cook in a toaster. All pod air fryers have removable cooking baskets and most of them are nonstick. When you're cooking chicken thighs with a sauce or even veggies drizzled with oil -- a few favorites -- there is going to be some inevitable splatter. Air frying mode is intense, with high convection heat circulated at a fast pace. Do this in a toaster oven, which is markedly more difficult to clean, and you'll be dealing with some serious caked-on gunk after the first few dozen uses.
You won't need more than 15 minutes to make this magic happen in an air fryer. air fryer chicken thighsPod air fryers, on the other hand, take very little effort to get clean. Most air fryer baskets are now thicker and also nonstick. Beware of thin wire baskets, which can be tougher to clean. Both types can be removed to soak in the sink and some can be run through the dishwasher. The same can't be said for the inside walls of a countertop oven. If you're buying a toaster oven, there's no reason not to get one with an air fryer function. It can still be used for less splatter-prone foods such as potatoes, frozen empanadas and filets of salmon with too much risk of making a mess. For more, read CNET's complete guide to air fryers.Air fryer size
Here's the tiny 2-quart Gourmia air fryer next to the more standard 4.25-quart Phillips model. David Watsky/CNETWhile there are several features to consider, the size of your air fryer is likely the most important decision you'll make. If you're typically cooking for one or two people, a 2- or 3-quart air fryer should be large enough. Consider adding another quart of capacity to your air fryer for every person that you're regularly cooking for. A family of four or five, for instance, should be fine with a 5-quart model. If you plan on regularly cooking full meals for a family, including meat and veggies or sides, you might consider a larger, dual-basket air fryer like the Ninja DualZone.
All that said, the smaller the air fryer you can get away with the better. I've found that smaller air fryers such as the Magic Bullet 2- to 5-quart model and Instant Pot's Duo Crisp net better results since food will get blasted faster and more often than inside a larger model. Smaller air fryers mean less overall capacity, so you may have to cook in batches.
Power
We made sure every air fryer on our list has the power to blast cauliflower, chicken wings and potatoes to a crispy finish. Corin Cesaric/CNETMost air fryers are somewhere between 1,200 and 1,800 watts. Larger air fryers typically have more wattage and smaller models have less. Your midrange 4-quart air fryer should have about 1,500 watts. The small Magic Bullet and Gourmia air fryers have 1,300, but that's plenty of power to cook food in the petite basket. Larger air fryers should have about 100 more watts per quart to make sure they hit those hot temps of 400 to 450 degrees Fahrenheit.
Air fryer accessoriesSome fancy models may come with extra accessories, but all you need is an air fryer basket with wire or nonstick grates. They come standard with most air fryer models and help the super-convection to hit all sides of your food evenly. I prefer the nonstick variety as wire baskets can be particularly tricky to clean.
All the air fryers we tested came with a grated fryer basket or tray. The Philips Essential Digital model has it attached to the handle making it easier to remove for cleaning.  David Watsky/CNET Should you just get a normal air fryer or a multifunction model?
The Duo Crisp with Ultimate Lid turned out equally browned sweet potato fries as a single-function solo air fryer in the same amount of time. David Watsky/CNETThat depends on the type of cooking you'll do and what other appliances you already have. I like having a solo air fryer, but I'm also a fan of the Instant Pot Duo Crisp which functions as both an air fryer and a multicooker (also a pressure cooker and slow cooker). Consider how the air fryer looks, too
Fritaire's glass bowl air fryer certainly is an eye catcher. FritaireAir fryers don't have to be kept on the counter but anything larger than 3 quarts might be tricky to store when not in use. Considering that, you should get an air fryer that compliments your kitchen. Both the Ninja and Cosori models are available in a range of colors (Cosori has more). There are also glass bowl air fryers and more modern-looking machines.
Enlarge Image
Roasting Brussels sprouts well is tricky for an air fryer. CNET
Air fryer FAQs
How do air fryers work?
The air fryer is a simple cooking machine that employs hot, fast-circulating convection heat and a small fan to flash-roast food inside a contained frying basket. While there's generally no or very little oil used, the results can be similar to those of traditional frying in that food comes out crispy on the outside and (ideally) moist on the inside.
Are air fryers energy efficient compared to ovens?
We did an analysis and found that a standard 4-quart air fryer will cost about 27 cents per hour to run. That's 50% more energy-efficient than the average full-size electric oven and about 35% more efficient than the average gas oven.
What can you make in an air fryer?
The options for foods you can cook in an air fryer are vast, but some air fryer favorites include chicken wings, chicken tenders, french fries and mozzarella sticks. You can also make fish in an air fryer, including salmon, for a moist inside and roasted outer crust. Bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs are great when made in an air fryer, as are certain vegetables like Brussels sprouts, mushrooms, onions, peppers and carrots.
Is using an air fryer healthier?
Generally speaking, air frying is a healthy way to cook. Cooking with an air fryer means you'll get foods that taste like they've been fried but with little or no oil. You can make healthier chicken wings, French fries, and cheese sticks without deep-frying or pan-frying in oil. Some foods do best in an air fryer with a light coating of oil, but most don't require any. Air fryers have become popular in part because they allow people to eat snack-type foods but with far less fat, cholesterol, and fewer calories.
Can you cook raw meat in an air fryer?
As long as the raw meat is fully defrosted, you can place and even cook it in an air fryer with very little trouble. However, we do recommend using baking paper under the meat (either by covering the tray, or cutting a fine piece of the paper to put under your food) so that the juice collected doesn't collect at the bottom of your air fryer.
About the Author
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen
David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week.
Read full bio
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.