Amazon Prime Day is October 7-8: Everything you need to know about October Prime Day | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Amazon Prime Day is October 7-8: Everything you need to know about October Prime Day
Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days returns soon. Here's everything you need to know to shop like a pro.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 9:20 a.m. PT
Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K
| for $30 (save $20)
Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K
for $30 (save $20)
View now View at Amazon Eufy E340 Video Doorbell Cam | for $150 (save $40)
Eufy E340 Video Doorbell Cam
for $150 (save $40)
View now View at Amazon Anker Nano USB-C Power Bank | for $24 (save $5)
Anker Nano USB-C Power Bank
for $24 (save $5)
View now View at Amazon Eufy E15 Robot Lawn Mower | for $1,400 (save $900)
Eufy E15 Robot Lawn Mower
for $1,400 (save $900)
View now View at Amazon Baseus PrimeTrip VR2 Max USB-C Car Charger | for $30 (save $20)
Baseus PrimeTrip VR2 Max USB-C Car Charger
for $30 (save $20)
View now View at Amazon
It's September, which means fall seasonal sales and early holiday savings are on the horizon. Labor Day is in the rearview, but plenty of the most significant sales of the year will be creeping up soon, and Amazon's October Prime Day event (formally called Prime Big Deal Days) is one you can't miss. The retailer recently confirmed that the sale will return this year on Tuesday, Oct. 7, and Wednesday, Oct. 8. Also: 3 money-saving tricks I use every time I shop online - and you should tooAmazon says Prime shoppers can expect savings across various categories, including beauty, electronics, seasonal essentials, must-have gifts, toys, and more. Customers should see savings on brands like Samsung, LG, Sonos, and Dyson. Carmen Nestares, vice president of Amazon North America Marketing and Prime Tech, says the fall event is a kick-off to the holiday shopping season. ZDNET will monitor for all-time low prices and significant price drops on categories our editors test and love. That's why we've compiled everything we know about the event on this page, including early deals on smart home gear, mobile accessories, and more. Here's everything you need to know to save the most during October, including during October Prime Day. Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.What is October Prime Day?October Prime Day is the popular colloquial term for Amazon's annual fall shopping event, formally titled "Prime Big Deal Days." The event is typically held in October, similar to the retailer's flagship July Prime Day event. When is the Prime Big Deal Days sale?Amazon unveiled the Prime Big Deal Days dates on Sept. 16. The popular sale event will return on Tuesday, Oct. 7, and Wednesday, Oct. 8, 2025. The dates are nearly identical to last year's event on Oct. 8 and 9. The sale remains a two-day sale event (even though this year's July Prime Day was extended to four days). The sale itself will begin on Oct. 7 at 12:01 a.m. PDT and run through Oct. 8 at 12:01 a.m. PDT, or about 3:00 a.m. EST if you're on the East Coast. Also: Amazon is quietly cutting this Prime membership perk - here's what you're losing (and when)Where is October Prime Day happening?Amazon says that the Prime Big Deal Days sale will begin on Oct. 7 in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Poland, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, the US, and the UK, and for the first time, Colombia, Ireland, and Mexico.Are there usually live deals ahead of October Prime Day?We likely won't start seeing tons of deals advertised exclusively for "October Prime Day" just yet, but Amazon (and competition) already has plenty of discounts 24/7/365. We'll start to see more offers slowly crop up, especially as other retailers announce their sales that may kick off before Amazon's does. Plus, Amazon unveiled a chunk of early offers, including 50% off select Amazon products like the Kindle Paperwhite for Prime members, 80% off select Kindle books, $15 off a $55 or more purchase when shopping in-store at Amazon Fresh, and more. You can read the full release, including more Prime-exclusive offers, at Amazon. Amazon also has distinct deals marked with "Early Prime Deal" badges.
Screenshot by Kayla Solino/ZDNETBest Amazon deals ahead of October Prime DayShop more Amazon deals
Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K
for $30 (save $20)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Simplify your streaming with this Amazon Fire TV Stick for 40% off.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Eufy E340 Video Doorbell Cam for $150 (save $40)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
The Eufy Security E340 dual-camera video doorbell offers a practical way to monitor your doorstep and keep an eye on deliveries, and our expert loves it.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Anker Nano USB-C Power Bank for $24 (save $5)
Kayla Solino/ZDNET
Anker's Nano Power Bank features a foldable USB-C and a small form factor that's perfect for those on the go.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Eufy E15 Robot Lawn Mower for $1,400 (save $900)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Ditch cutting your grass and let a robot do it for you with this Eufy model for 39% off -- we've tested it ourselves.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Baseus PrimeTrip VR2 Max USB-C Car Charger for $30 (save $20)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Charge your devices from the car with ease.
Show more
View now at Amazon
What are the top retailers to keep an eye on for the event?Any Amazon event will undoubtedly bring competition. Like before, other major retailers will offer competing sales, deals, and discounts. Walmart, Target, Best Buy, Costco, and other retailers will try to compete with Amazon's October Prime Day offerings, often price-cutting the same items during the same periods or extending their own sales. Last year, Target, Best Buy, Walmart, and Costco offered sale events during October. We'll update this article with all the info on Amazon's competing sales when it becomes available. How can I get the most out of October Prime Day?Throughout the October sale, we'll be extensively updating ZDNET.com live with all the best deals on products we've tested and would recommend. We'll also curate, share, and update hand-picked lists of top deals in several product categories, including laptops, security cameras, tablets, and Amazon devices. Also: I've used Rakuten for a year and earned nearly $500 - here's howAnd as the shopping editor, I know a thing or two about smartly scoring savings, too. This year, I'll share my tips and tricks with you before the busiest shopping season. Follow along with my tips and my byline here. Do you need to be a Prime member to shop the sale? The Prime Big Deal Days event is a Prime-exclusive sale. That means you'll need to sign up for a membership to shop the sale, but keep in mind plenty of other retailers will likely aim to match or outcompete Amazon's prices with their own sales that overlap, precede, or come after the Prime Big Deal Days sale -- and you may not need a membership for those. How much does Amazon Prime cost? Anyone can join Prime for $15 per month or $139 per year, or start a free 30-day trial if you're eligible at amazon.com/prime. Additionally, those 18-24 can try Prime for Young Adults with a six-month $0 trial at amazon.com/youngadult then pay a discounted rate of $7.49 pmonthlyor $69 per year for a membership. Additionally, qualifying government assistance recipients and select income-verified customers can get Prime Access for $7 per month at amazon.com/getprimeaccess.Why trust ZDNET to help you shop? As a member of the ZDNET staff, I only write about deals that I or a team member would want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. I look for deals where products are at least 20% off (or hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is on sale and how frequently it drops.I also look over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use products in the deals I recommend. These recommendations may also be based on my testing (or testing by another ZDNET expert), plus extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best tech.In 2025, ZDNET refined its approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision. Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Top Best Buy deals before Prime Day 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 35+ of our favorite discounts before October
Best Sam's Club deals to compete with October Prime Day 2025: My favorite 10+ deals
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use