Secure and resizable cloud compute – Amazon EC2 – Amazon Web Services
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Amazon EC2
Overview
Features
Pricing
Instance types
FAQs
More
Products›
Compute›
Amazon EC2
Get started with Amazon EC2 with AWS Free Tier
Amazon EC2
Secure and resizable compute capacity for virtually any workload
Get started with Amazon EC2
Connect with an Amazon EC2 specialist
Why Amazon EC2?
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) offers the broadest and deepest compute platform, with over 750 instances and choice of the latest processor, storage, networking, operating system, and purchase model to help you best match the needs of your workload. We are the first major cloud provider that supports Intel, AMD, and Arm processors, the only cloud with on-demand EC2 Mac instances, and the only cloud with 400 Gbps Ethernet networking. We offer the best price performance for machine learning training, as well as the lowest cost per inference instances in the cloud. More SAP, high performance computing (HPC), ML, and Windows workloads run on AWS than any other cloud.
Benefits of Amazon EC2
SLA commitment
Access reliable, scalable infrastructure on demand. Scale capacity within minutes with SLA commitment of 99.99% availability. Learn more
AWS Nitro System
Provide secure compute for your applications. Security is built into the foundation of Amazon EC2 with the AWS Nitro System. Learn more
Optimize performance and cost
Optimize performance and cost with flexible options like AWS Graviton-based instances, Amazon EC2 Spot instances, and AWS Savings Plans. Learn more
AWS Migration Tools
Migrate and build apps with ease using AWS Migration Tools, AWS Managed Services, or Amazon Lightsail. Learn how AWS can help. Learn more
re:Invent 2024 compute sessions now on demand
Catch up with compute highlights from 2024 re:Invent.
View the full AWS Compute session playlist
Play
Use cases
Run cloud-native and enterprise applications
Amazon EC2 delivers secure, reliable, high-performance, and cost-effective compute infrastructure to meet demanding business needs.Migrate your business enterprise applications to AWS
Scale for HPC applications
Access the on-demand infrastructure and capacity you need to run HPC applications faster and cost-effectively.Learn more about HPC on AWS
Develop for Apple platforms
Build, test, and sign on-demand macOS workloads. Access environments in minutes, dynamically scale capacity as needed, and benefit from AWS’s pay-as-you-go pricing.Learn more about EC2 Mac instances
Train and deploy ML applications
Amazon EC2 delivers the broadest choice of compute, networking (up to 400 Gbps), and storage services purpose-built to optimize price performance for ML projects.Learn more about ML infrastructure
Did you find what you were looking for today?
Let us know so we can improve the quality of the content on our pages
Yes
No
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.