Best VR Games - May 2025 | CNET - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Tech Gaming
The Best VR Games to Play in 2025
These are the best immersive games to play in 2025 on the Quest, PSVR 2, PC and even the Vision Pro.
Scott Stein Editor at Large I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future. Expertise VR and AR | Gaming | Metaverse technologies | Wearable tech | Tablets Credentials Nearly 20 years writing about tech, and over a decade reviewing wearable tech, VR, and AR products and apps
See full bio
Scott Stein
Feb. 26, 2025
5:21 a.m. PT 11 min read
Batman: Arkham Shadow is one of the best experiences you can get in a VR headset. Meta
Years come and go, but virtual reality is still a place where some of the most interesting and immersive games exist, if you're curious enough to wear a headset. Thanks largely to the Meta Quest, which remains the most popular VR headset product line in existence, there are lots of fascinating, sometimes extremely active, and compelling games to play. And it's not just on the Meta Quest, which now has a newer line of upgraded-graphics headsets (the Quest 3 and Quest 3S). The PlayStation VR 2 has a solid number of excellent games, PC VR remains a place with many classics, and even Apple's Vision Pro has a couple of good ones.Read more: CNET's Best VR HeadsetsThe number of great VR games each year feels like it's slowing down, but there are still lots of gems. The good news is VR games actually age well. Some of my favorite VR games from years ago are still ones I play regularly. VR's latest trick has been mixed reality, blending passthrough color camera feeds with VR graphics to make it feel like games are bleeding into your real world. Some of the games on this list dabble in mixed reality, too.Best VR Games - May 2025
Meta
Batman: Arkham Shadow
If you've ever had the urge to be Batman, this is the best VR Batman experience ever made. Arkham Shadow throws you into a beautiful-looking underworld with controls that let you quickly fight, glide with batwings, and use a bunch of tools. It's been given away free with Quest 3S purchases, but it's well worth buying on its own, even if you're not getting it for free. Release date: Oct. 21, 2024Genre: AdventureDeveloper: CamouflajPlatforms: Quest 3S, Quest 3
$50 at Meta
Meta
Asgard's Wrath 2
One of the biggest and most visually rich RPGs you can play in VR, Asgard's Wrath II is also full of first-person action. This Egyptian-themed game, full of gods and beasts, has a mix of puzzles and combat and a lot of secrets to discover. There's a ton to do, with cinematic worlds and puzzles and a roguelike mode that randomly generates battles in case you somehow finish the dozens-of-hours main story. The graphics aren't quite as good as the PC-only first game in the series, but few Quest 2 or Quest 3 games have looked better.Release date: Dec. 15, 2023Genre: RPG/AdventureDeveloper: Sanzaru GamesPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3
$60 at Meta
Another Axiom
Gorilla Tag
Don't ask me, ask my kids. The most popular game in VR for years is this weird free social game that uses your arms to propel you through a bunch of worlds that feel as pixelated as Minecraft. The brilliance of Gorilla Tag is its system of arm-driven movement, but its staying power is in its Minecraft-like social universe.Release date: Feb. 12, 2021Genre: ActionDeveloper: Another AxiomPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam, PSVR 2
$0 at Meta
Kluge Interactive
Synth Riders
Much like Beat Saber, Synth Riders is a rhythm-based music game. Synth Riders is a bit more forgiving, asking you to match hand movements to certain positions rather than swinging a virtual saber. It's also one of the few big VR games to also live on Apple's Vision Pro. If you happen to have a Vision Pro and wanted a Beat Saber-like experience, this is your best chance.Release date: June 21, 2018Genre: ActionDeveloper: Kluge InteractivePlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam, PSVR 2, Vision Pro
$25 at Meta
Realities.io
Puzzling Places
Assembling 3D puzzles is a surprisingly challenging experience, and Puzzling Places lets you slowly assemble 3D scans of real places to create immersive models you can expand and peek your head into. Each puzzle can be set up with different amounts of pieces, ramping difficulty up or down as needed. A mixed-reality mode floats the puzzle pieces in your real-world environment, too. Whether you play on Quest, PSVR 2 or Vision Pro, it's always fun.Release date: Sept. 2, 2021Genre: PuzzleDeveloper: realities.ioPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam, PSVR 2, Vision Pro
$15 at Meta
Valve
Half-Life Alyx
Valve's long-awaited sequel to its dystopian first-person sci-fi franchise, which debuted right alongside Valve's Index headset in 2020, is still one of the best things you can play in VR. Set between the events of the first Half Life and Half Life 2, Alyx puts you behind the hands of resistance fighter Alyx Vance, following her journey as she takes the fight to the alien Combine forces. Series fans will be familiar with the world setting and various familiar enemies, but its VR nature makes this game dramatically more immersive, frightening and visceral. From aiming shots at shambling zombies to throwing tin cans at pigeons, Half Life: Alyx makes superb use of VR to make an existing series feel fresh and exciting. Release date: March 23, 2020Genre: ActionDeveloper: ValvePlatforms: Steam
$60 at Steam
Sony Interactive Entertainment
Horizon: Call of the Mountain
This PlayStation VR 2-exclusive game, made as a VR-focused spin-off of Sony's futuristic and robo-pocalyptic Horizon games, is one of the most beautiful and intense VR experiences next to Half-Life: Alyx. Most of the game involves climbing up mountains and shooting enemies with your bow and arrows, with some puzzle solving thrown in. The game's use of optional eye tracking, rich visuals and uncanny details throughout make it a PSVR 2 must-have.Release date: Feb. 22, 2023Genre: AdventureDeveloper: Sony Interactive EntertainmentPlatforms: PSVR 2
$60 at Playstation
Sony Interactive Entertainment
Gran Turismo 7
All of the already-fantastic Gran Turismo 7 racing game on PS5 is playable on Sony's PlayStation VR 2 headset, making this one of the best PSVR 2 games and one of the best VR games anywhere. Just a couple of caveats: The races are the only part that snap into VR, and GT7 doesn't work with the Sense controllers (you need to use the DualSense controller or a compatible wheel), but the level of driving detail is absolutely stunning.Release date: March 4, 2022Genre: RacingDeveloper: Sony Interactive EntertainmentPlatforms: PSVR 2
$52 at Amazon
$45 at Walmart
$70 at Best Buy
Capcom
Resident Evil Village
Another PS5 game that has a complete PSVR 2-compatible upgrade, Resident Evil Village looks stunning and takes advantage of the PS5 graphics and the PSVR 2 display to create one of the most detailed immersive horror games yet. The translation to VR isn't always perfect, but it's still an amazing demonstration of how good VR gaming can look.Release date: Feb. 22, 2023Genre: HorrorDeveloper: CapcomPlatforms: PSVR 2
$40 at Playstation
Hello Games
No Man's Sky
No Man's Sky is a game that's only gotten more and more spectacular with age, becoming an endless space adventure with a ridiculous amount of things to do. The entire game can be played in VR, and the results are often jaw-dropping. For sheer play value alone, this is worth adding to your VR collection. The PSVR 2 upgrade is one of the headset's best games.Release date: Aug. 9, 2016Genre: AdventureDeveloper: Hello GamesPlatforms: PSVR 2, Steam
$60 at Playstation
ILM Immersive
Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge
ILM Immersive has made several iconic VR games (if you haven't played Vader Immortal, you should try that too). Tales From The Galaxy's Edge is more free-roaming in its level designs, and is set in the wilds of Batuu, the planet from Disney's Star Wars theme parks. It's also more shooter-based, with some well-designed weapon mechanics. If you want to feel like you're living a Star Wars life for a while, this is your first VR destination (check out Star Wars: Squadrons for another good option for Steam VR). It's almost like a virtual Disney parks souvenir.Release date: Nov. 19, 2020Genre: AdventureDeveloper: ILM ImmersivePlatforms: PSVR 2, Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3
$25 at Meta
Beat Games/PlayStation
Beat Saber
Two lightsabers, slashing to music. Beat Saber is a music-rhythm movement and dance game that's done so well, it's already in arcades. Slash blocks in particular directions, avoid bombs, duck obstacles and suddenly it's a workout. It's a great rave-dance VR lightsaber workout, and with its frequent music packs and upgrades, it's become one of the all-time VR classics.Release date: May 1, 2018Genre: Rhythm ActionDeveloper: Beat GamesPlatforms: PSVR 2, Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Windows
$30 at Meta
Polyarc
Moss: Book II
Moss: Book II follows much the same format as the original Moss game, a platformer in which you guide adorable mouse Quill through various puzzles. This sequel sees a continuation of Quill's story, with fresh puzzles, wider, more interactive environments and beautiful visuals. The original Moss and Moss Book II are both fantastic, and you should play them both. But you might as well pick the newest one if you're a newcomer, since it stands on its own and has improved graphics.Release date: March 31, 2022Genre: AdventureDeveloper: PolyarcPlatforms: PSVR 2, Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$20 at Meta
Mighty Coconut
Walkabout Mini Golf
My overall favorite VR game just might be mini-golf. Walkabout's multiple golf courses are brilliantly designed, with extra-hard challenge modes and hidden golf balls to collect. The game's golf physics are perfect. The multiplayer modes are great for having friends join in online. Several increasingly good courses keep arriving as DLC, from one based on Jim Henson's Labyrinth to Wallace and Gromit course to a series of Jules Verne courses. Every time a new course comes out, I get excited. Seriously, you have no idea how good VR mini-golf is. And the Meow Wolf course is absolutely wonderful.Release date: March 24, 2020Genre: AdventureDeveloper: Mighty CoconutPlatforms: PSVR 2, Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$15 at Meta
Oculus
In Death Unchained
A bow and arrow, and waves of evil creatures. In Death Unchained's roguelike design, which changes the experience every time you play, is a challenge of pure survival and some incredibly satisfying archery mechanics. It won us over the moment it arrived on the scene, and remains one of the best arcade-like games on the Quest (it's just called In Death on PC).Release date: July 23, 2020Genre: ActionDeveloper: SuperbrightPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$30 at Meta
Resolution Games
Demeo
Tabletop role-playing vibes come to this excellent turn-based VR game that cross-plays to any other platform. The clever design lays out a 3D dungeon map you move through while playing cards from your hand that deal damage. Along with Walkabout Mini Golf, this is the best casual multiplayer VR experience you can have. It's also almost like playing D&D in VR.Release date: May 6, 2021Genre: AdventureDeveloper: Resolution GamesPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam, PSVR 2, Vision Pro
$40 at Meta
Meta
Iron Man VR
Ever dream of being Iron Man? This game will have you hovering around in a jetpack, using your hands to aim and blast through a series of missions that are surprisingly kinetic and fun. Iron Man was originally a game on the PlayStation VR, but the move to Quest is far more fun because there are no wires to worry about getting tangled in. Release date: July 3, 2020Genre: ActionDeveloper: CamouflajPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$30 at Meta
Skydance Interactive
Walking Dead: Saints & Sinners
If you love zombies and survival action, Saints & Sinners and its Chapter 2 sequel are the way to go. These games look great on the PC and also play well on the Quest and PSVR 2. Survival horror and a surprisingly deep adventure make this and the original game must-haves.Release date: Jan. 23, 2020Genre: ActionDeveloper: Skydance InteractivePlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam, PSVR 2
$20 at Steam
Enhance
Tetris Effect
Named after the real-life cognitive phenomenon and designed by Tetsuya Mizuguchi, the creator of Rez Infinite and the classic Lumines, this is Tetris in VR. And it's incredible. Music and visuals sync with your moves to create synaesthetic, hypnotic flow gaming. It's also a great way to show off the PSVR 2's high-contrast display. On the PSVR 2 and PC, it doubles as a 2D game.Release date: Nov. 9, 2018Genre: PuzzleDeveloper: EnhancePlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam, PSVR 2
$30 at Playstation
Big Box VR
Population One
The multiplayer battle royale experience of Population One is very Fortnite-like. In fact, it's extremely Fortnite-like. That's a good thing. There are few large-scale multiplayer VR games right now, and this is one of the best. Dropping down from above, navigating the shrinking map, climbing and hunting for supplies, and excellent controls make this a must-play team shooter. Plus, there are constant season updates.Release date: Oct. 22, 2020Genre: ActionDeveloper: BigBox VRPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$0 at Meta
For Fun Labs
Eleven Table Tennis
Ping-pong in VR is a workout. The table tennis physics in Eleven Table Tennis are superb, making this one of the most realistic simulations you can have in a headset. The difficulty levels ramp up to some seriously unforgiving levels, too. Get good at this, and you might just improve your ping-pong game.Release date: Feb. 27, 2020Genre: SportsDeveloper: For Fun LabsPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$30 at Meta
Schell Games
I Expect You To Die 3
VR is a great format for escape room experiences. I Expect You to Die is a game you can play seated, leaning over desks and flipping switches, using telekinetic powers to control items from afar. The puzzle designs can be as challenging as any escape room I've ever been in. The series has three games now, but you might as well start with the newest one.Release date: Aug. 17, 2023Genre: PuzzleDeveloper: Schell GamesPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$25 at Meta
Crytek/Oculus
The Climb 2
You have no idea how intense VR rock climbing can be until you've tried The Climb 2. You use your hands to reach up and grab ledges, grab ropes and zipline. It sounds easy, and yet discovering ledges, holding the right grip and keeping focus can be a real challenge. It's also absolutely beautiful.Release date: March 24, 2021Genre: ActionDeveloper: CrytekPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3
$30 at Meta
Steam
Keep Talking And Nobody Explodes
One of the best VR games only requires one person to wear a headset. In Keep Talking and Nobody Explodes, one player is in a tiny room, faced with a fiendish bomb to defuse. Everyone else has the hilariously complex bomb defusal manual and both sides have to describe the bomb, and the instructions, before it explodes. A party game classic.Release date: July 26, 2015Genre: PuzzleDeveloper: Steel Crate GamesPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$15 at Meta
Superhot VR
With or without VR, Superhot has a brilliant conceit: Time only moves when you move. Which means you can be utterly surrounded by enemies bristling with machine guns or ones ready to slice you into pieces, and still defeat them all by -- oh so slowly -- brushing their weapons aside, dodging bullets, throwing pots and pans, etc. Every level plays like a puzzle as much as a shooter, and you come out looking like an action hero every time. Release date: Dec. 5, 2016Genre: ActionDeveloper: Superhot TeamPlatforms: Quest 2, Quest 3S, Quest 3, Steam
$25 at Meta
What is the best VR game right now?
That's a totally subjective question, but my personal answer for "Best VR Game Ever" is Walkabout Mini Golf: its collection of immersive mini golf courses are phenomenal, and it's a great multiplayer soclal game to try. But Half Life: Alyx also remains one of the most impressive immersive adventures available in a headset.
Best VR games FAQ
Is VR growing or dying?
VR always feels like it's somewhere in between life and death. Meta's Quest headsets remain strong sellers, but the state of VR games overall feels like it's stalled out a little since it's not as profitable a territory for developers compared to mobile or standard PC/console designs which can be ported to other hardware more easily. Good VR games tend to not be very playable out of a VR headset, although there are a good handful of 2D games that have VR-playable modes.
Can you burn fat playing VR games?
Absolutely. In fact, VR gaming is one of my favorite ways of getting fit. If you play a game like Beat Saber and track your heart rate, you'll see the impact. Just keep in mind that sweating in VR can easily happen, and you should get a silicone sweat-resistant face mask for yours if you're considering getting super-active.
How we came up with the best VR gamesCNET has a wide variety of writers with decades of collected experience playing games and experiencing VR. While we're not always able to catch everything that's new, we pay attention to how much time we spend in VR games and how much of an impact they make on us. We jump between all the VR platforms to help make our decisions.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.