Meta Misses Senate Deadline on AI Chatbot Child Safety Records - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Exclusive
Meta just missed a senator's deadline for submitting records about its AI chatbot policies for kids
By
Charles Rollet
and
Pranav Dixit
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
Mario Anzuoni/REUTERS
2025-09-23T23:29:10Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Meta hasn't complied with Sen. Josh Hawley's demand for hundreds of pages of AI chatbot rules.
The tech giant is under fire for having rules that once allowed "sensual" chats with children.
Meta says it finalized its first production of documents and plans to work with Hawley's office.
Meta has missed a Senate deadline to hand over records of how its AI chatbots interacted with children, defying a request tied to revelations about the company's internal policies.
On August 15, Sen. Josh Hawley gave Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg until September 19 to provide every draft of a 200-plus page internal rulebook that guided what Meta's AI chatbots could and couldn't say, along with enforcement manuals, an age-gating system, and risk reviews.Hawley's demand came after a Reuters investigation showed Meta's rules allowed bots to engage in provocative behavior that included sexual conversations with children. Meta removed that language and is training its chatbots to block inappropriate chats with teens, it told Business Insider.
As of Tuesday, Meta hadn't sent all the records and had not complied with Hawley's deadline, Hawley's spokesperson Bernadette Breslin confirmed to Business Insider.A Meta spokesperson said the company finalized its first production of documents on Tuesday after resolving an unexpected transmission issue. They added that they plan to continue producing documents and look forward to working with Hawley's office.Hawley's letter to MetaHawley, who chairs the Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Crime and Counterterrorism, has said he wants to establish who approved the chatbot policies, how long they were in effect, and whether Meta misled the public.
In his August 15 letter, he blasted Meta's rules as "reprehensible and outrageous," pointing to examples where chatbots were permitted to describe an eight-year-old's body as "a work of art" and "a masterpiece."He also warned that the investigation would examine whether Meta's generative AI products "enable exploitation, deception, or other criminal harms to children."On September 16, Hawley held a hearing to expose what he characterized as growing harms to children posed by online chatbots made by Character.AI, OpenAI's ChatGPT, and Meta.
"If your products are so great and so safe, then come defend your chatbots under oath," Hawley posted on X that day. "Right now, it's an open invitation. But it can be a subpoena."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The scrutiny comes as Meta doubles down on its chatbot strategy. Earlier this month, Business Insider reported that the company is hiring US-based contractors to help build character-driven bots for key growth markets such as India, Indonesia, and Mexico, part of a broader push to make AI companions central to its apps.What Meta's missed deadline meansIt's not unusual for tech giants to blow past deadlines from Congress, where letters from lawmakers rarely carry enforcement power unless they're backed by a subpoena. Policy professors said Meta's silence is striking given the subject matter.
Alexis Wichowski, a professor of professional practice at Columbia University, told Business Insider that from a tech company's perspective, "there's no upside to meeting the deadline, no consequence for missing it, and a lot more options from buying time." "What companies fear most is the kind of monstrously bad press that comes from revealing all the documents," Wichowski said.Wichowski pointed out that none of the many congressional investigations Meta has faced since 2016 have produced any real consequences.
Sarah Kreps, a Cornell professor and director of its Tech Policy Institute, told Business Insider that while Meta faces low legal risks from missing deadlines, it faces significant reputational risks."For Meta, the stakes are higher because the underlying issue involves children," Kreps said. "The silence looks evasive and highlights how unprepared Meta seems for the responsibilities that come with deploying AI to children."Have a tip? Contact Pranav Dixit via email at pranavdixit@protonmail.com or Signal at 1-408-905-9124. Contact Charles Rollet via email at crollet@insider.com or on Signal and WhatsApp at 628-282-2811. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
Exclusive
Meta
Chatbots
More
Artificial Intelligence
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account