Branches of the U.S. government | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
The U.S. and its government
Buying from the U.S. government
U.S. facts and figures
A-Z index of U.S. government departments and agencies
State and local governments
Branches of government
Elected officials
Federal laws and regulations
Indian tribes and resources for Native Americans
Federal, state, territory, county, and municipal courts
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
The U.S. and its government
Branches of government
The U.S. and its government
Buying from the U.S. government
U.S. facts and figures
A-Z index of U.S. government departments and agencies
State and local governments
current page
Branches of government
Elected officials
Federal laws and regulations
Indian tribes and resources for Native Americans
Federal, state, territory, county, and municipal courts
Branches of the U.S. government
Learn about the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the U.S. government.
What are the three branches of government?The Constitution of the United States divides the federal government into three branches: legislative, executive, and judicial. This ensures that no individual or group will have too much power.
Legislative branch
The legislative branch is made up of Congress (the Senate and House of Representatives) and special agencies and offices that provide support services to Congress.The legislative branch’s key roles include:Drafting proposed lawsConfirming or rejecting presidential nominations for heads of federal agencies, federal judges, and the Supreme CourtSurveying the budgetHaving the authority to declare war
Executive branch
The president, the vice president, and the president's cabinet are the members of the executive branch.The executive branch’s key roles include:The president is the head of state, leader of the executive branch, and commander in chief of the United States armed forces.The vice president supports the president. If the president is unable to serve, the vice president becomes president. The vice president also presides over the U.S. Senate and breaks ties in Senate votes.The cabinet members serve as advisors to the president. They include the vice president, heads of executive departments, and other high-ranking government officials. Cabinet members are nominated by the president and must be approved by the Senate.The executive branch also includes executive departments, independent agencies, and other boards, commissions, and committees.
Judicial branch
The judicial branch includes the Supreme Court and other federal courts.
It evaluates laws by:
Interpreting the meaning of laws
Applying laws to individual cases
Deciding if laws violate the Constitution
How each branch of government provides checks and balancesThe ability of each branch to respond to the actions of the other branches is the system of checks and balances.Each branch of government can change acts of the other branches:The president can veto legislation created by Congress. He or she also nominates heads of federal agencies and high court appointees.Congress confirms or rejects the president's nominees. It can also remove the president from office in exceptional circumstances.The Justices of the Supreme Court, nominated by the president and confirmed by the Senate, can overturn unconstitutional laws.
LAST UPDATED:
September 22, 2025
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Have a question?
Ask a real person any government-related question for free. They will get you the answer or let you know where to find it.
Call USAGov
Chat with USAGov
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests