Police dismantles crypto fraud ring linked to €100 million in losses
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancements
Tablet meets laptop in this $170 open-box Asus Chromebook deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityPolice dismantles crypto fraud ring linked to €100 million in losses
Police dismantles crypto fraud ring linked to €100 million in losses
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 23, 2025
10:16 AM
0
Law enforcement authorities in Europe have arrested five suspects linked to a cryptocurrency investment fraud ring that stole over €100 million ($118 million) from more than 100 victims.
The joint operation started in September 2020 and was carried out by investigative teams from Spain, Portugal, Bulgaria, Italy, Lithuania, and Romania, coordinated by Eurojust and supported by Europol.
"During the joint action day, five places were searched in both Spain and Portugal, as well as in Italy, Romania and Bulgaria, where bank accounts and other financial assets were also frozen. The alleged main perpetrator is suspected of large-scale fraud and money laundering," Eurojust said.
"The fraud had been running for several years, with the main suspect offering high returns on investments in various cryptocurrencies via professionally designed online platforms."
The main suspect was promising potential victims high returns on investments in various cryptocurrencies through professionally designed online platforms. However, a large portion of these investments was instead funneled into bank accounts in Lithuania under the suspected scammers' control.
When victims attempted to recover their assets, they were required to pay additional fees. Subsequently, the fraudulent website went offline, leaving the investors with substantial losses, and in some cases, they even lost all their money.
This extensive investment fraud operation has been operational since at least 2018, targeting investors across 23 countries, serving either as the residence of victims or as regions for funneling the scam's profits.
In June, Spanish police arrested five more suspects believed to have defrauded more than 5,000 victims and linked to the laundering $540 million (€460 million) from illegal cryptocurrency investment schemes.
One month later, the Spanish police dismantled another large-scale investment fraud operation that had caused damages exceeding $11.8 million (€10 million).
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission also revealed earlier this year that Americans lost a record $12.5 billion to fraud in 2024, with investment scams resulting in the highest losses, totaling around $5.7 billion.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Over $300 million in cybercrime crypto seized in anti-fraud effortFTC: Older adults lost record $700 million to scammers in 2024Hacker extradited to US for stealing $3.3 million from taxpayersUK arrests suspect for RTX ransomware attack causing airport disruptionsGitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
CryptoCurrency
Eurojust
Europe
Europol
Fraud
Investment
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT