Trump Supporter on H-1B Says He Might Leave US Over New Policy - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
I'm a Trump supporter — but I might move back to India over his H-1B policy
As told to
Charles Rollet
Some international tech workers are considering leaving the US after President Donald Trump's decision to impose a $100,000 fee on new H-1B work visas.
The Washington Post/Getty Images
2025-09-24T09:00:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Software engineer Abhishek Singh says the new $100,000 H-1B fees made him rethink staying in the US.
Singh says he still supports President Donald Trump.
After nine years in the US waiting for a green card, he's now considering moving back to India.
Abhishek Singh, a 42-year-old software engineering manager in Washington state, has lived in the US for a decade on an H-1B visa. He initially thought the new $100,000 H-1B fee would apply to him — and for a few harrowing hours, he and his wife began making plans to uproot their lives and return to India.
It turned out that the fee only applies to new H-1Bs, not current holders like Singh. He says the episode shook his confidence. After nine years of waiting for a green card, and with no guarantee that future policy changes won't upend his family's life, Singh says he is still considering moving back to India for the first time since he arrived in the US.He told Business Insider why he still supports President Donald Trump, even though the policy has left him ready to leave the country he once hoped to call home. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
I thought I'd have to leave the US imminentlyMost H-1Bs are Indians. I'm Indian. I came here 10 years ago with Amazon, made a life here, and I'm thankful to the USA.That morning, before the Trump administration clarified current holders wouldn't be affected, I thought there was no way I could raise $100,000 to pay this fee and that I would eventually need to leave or be removed by ICE.Me and my wife planned everything: what should we do with our dog, how to pack everything, how long we have. Those 12 hours were my hardest in the USA.
Even though I'm not directly affected, I still might leave the USI'm concerned that if these kinds of policies can be turned out in one day, why wouldn't there be more updates to this policy which can impact me in the future? I'm worried about that part. I haven't seen any positive signs from the administration saying something like, we won't touch any legal residents.I hadn't thought of leaving the US before. It all started that morning when I posted on LinkedIn about leaving. I am still considering moving out, and India is my first choice, since it's my home country.I still support Trump, just not this policyI still support the Trump administration even though I think this decision, in my opinion, will harm the US economy.
I'm a big supporter of Trump. I even fought with my neighbors when they were talking against him. The reason is simple: what he was talking about in his rallies was all about making America great. Everyone should be proud of their country and make it better. I wanted that, too, and if the US grows, I grow.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
I support what Trump is doing against illegal immigrants. Any country has the right to do that.Indians are here legally. They're law-abiding people.
I haven't seen any evidence that H-1Bs take American jobsIf people are capable, they should get the job. Do we have any data of how many people there are in the US who are unemployed because of H-1Bs? We are talking about this problem, but there's no numbers to support that.I need stability in my lifeI am sad. I never thought I would move out. I planned to get a green card and get citizenship in the future. But things are not working out. It's making my life unstable — that's something nobody wants. With two kids to raise, I want stability in my life so I can raise them in a proper environment.I'm definitely waiting for my green card, but that queue is not moving at all. It's been nine years now. I applied as soon as I came to the US. Nine years, and it's not moving. I wish it had been approved.
Recommended video
as told to
Tech
Immigration
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account