Mexican national, former DACA recipient dies in ICE custody after arrest in August - CBS Los Angeles
Latest
U.S.
Dallas ICE Shooting
Kimmel Returns
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Los Angeles
|
News
Weather
Sports
Videos
News Tip
KCAL News Shows
All News
LA News
OC News
IE News
U.S.
KCAL News Investigates
Entertainment
Politics
Consumer
Business
Health
On Your Side
Latest Weather
Radars & Maps
All Sports
Chargers
LA Kings
Rams
Lakers
Clippers
Golf
CBS Sports HQ
Dodgers
Angels
Soccer
Hockey
College Sports
The Desk
Let's Go Places
On Your Side
Inside SoCal
Java with Jamie
KCAL News Investigates
Class Act
SoCal Spotlight
People Making a Difference
Station Info
KCAL News Team
Contests & Promotions
Advertise
Seen on TV
Download the App
Galleries
Memorials
Watch CBS News
Local News
Mexican national, former DACA recipient dies in ICE custody after arrest in August
By
Dean
Fioresi,
Dean
Fioresi
Web Producer, CBS Los Angeles
Dean Fioresi is a web producer for CBS Los Angeles. He covers breaking news throughout Southern California. When he's not writing about local events, he enjoys focusing on sports and entertainment.
Read Full Bio
Dean
Fioresi,
Nidia
Cavazos
Updated on:
September 24, 2025 / 1:03 AM PDT
/ KCAL News
Mexican national dies in ICE custody after arrest in San Bernardino County
Mexican national dies in ICE custody after arrest in San Bernardino County
02:32
A Mexican national and former DACA recipient died in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement on Sunday, according to federal authorities. Ismael Ayala-Uribe, 39, was arrested by ICE agents on Aug. 17 during an enforcement operation, said a news release from ICE. He was transferred to the Adelanto ICE Processing Center on Aug. 22 for immigration proceedings.While detained, agents say that Ayala was evaluated by an on-call medical provider on Sept. 18. He was provided medication, according to ICE, and returned to his dormitory before he was later referred to the hospital on Saturday for further evaluation of an abscess on his buttock. Ayala was scheduled for surgery and was "hypertensive and displayed normal tachycardia," the release said. At around 1:50 a.m., hospital staff declared Ayala unresponsive, and less than an hour later, he was pronounced dead despite attempted lifesaving measures, according to ICE.While speaking with CBS News, Ayala's mother said that he died after suffering cardiac arrest.
"Saturday was the last time I visited him," Lucia Ayala told CBS News in Spanish. "He looked very pale and his hands appeared red."
Ismael Ayala-Uribe, the man who died in ICE custody on Monday, Sept. 22, 2025.
Ayala-Uribe Family
The San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department is also investigating the manner and cause of death, they told CBS News Los Angeles.Ayala's family said that he was in good health when he was transferred to Adelanto. They told Ayala to receive medical care, as they could see he was sick when they visited him every Saturday after he was detained in Fountain Valley, an Orange County suburb. He allegedly told them that he wasn't provided medical care by facility officials. He is the 14th detainee to die in ICE custody since President Trump took office in January, and the first-known death in California's immigration detention centers.
In a statement, ICE stated that emergency care is not denied for detainees in custody. "ICE remains committed to ensuring that all those in its custody reside in safe, secure and humane environments," said the statement. "Comprehensive medical care is provided from the moment individuals arrive and throughout the entirety of their stay."ICE said it notified the Department of Homeland Security and the Consulate of Mexico of the death, among other government agencies. In June, Democratic members of Congress toured the Adelanto detention facility amid reports of deteriorating conditions, lack of access to food, water, and medication. Rep. Luz Rivas of California was among the group and in a statement said "the conditions we saw inside the Adelanto ICE Detention Center prove that Donald Trump's policies are putting our most vulnerable in harm's way."In an emotional interview, Ayala says her son was loved by his family, friends and his long-time car wash clients. The Mexican national worked at a car wash in the Los Angeles area for over 15 years, but was detained by federal agents on Aug. 17 during an immigration enforcement operation. Ayala-Uribe was transferred to Adelanto. The Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, or DACA, is the federal program that allowed undocumented immigrants brought to the U.S. as children to live and work in the country without fear of deportation.
Ayala-Uribe was brought to the U.S. at the age of four and became a DACA recipient in 2012. In 2016, his DACA renewal was denied. Ayala-Uribe was convicted of his first DUI in 2015 and sentenced to three years probation, according to ICE. He was convicted of his second DUI in 2019 and sentenced to 120 days in jail and five years of probation. Ayala-Uribe's detention occurred as car wash locations have become targets for the Trump administration's crackdown on illegal immigration in L.A. According to the executive director of the Clean Carwash Worker Center, at least 247 carwash workers were detained from June to September in the L.A. area, with 81 car wash businesses raided.
More from CBS News
San Bernardino County man accused of sexually assaulting children at religious gatherings
2 arrested for stealing mail from Ventura County post office
Man arrested by immigration agents outside Newsom's redistricting event in LA speaks
Hit-and-run driver arrested at Riverside County casino after deadly crash, police say
Mother arrested after Orange County child dies during bath
Dean
Fioresi
Dean Fioresi is a web producer for CBS Los Angeles. He covers breaking news throughout Southern California. When he's not writing about local events, he enjoys focusing on sports and entertainment.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
San Bernardino County man accused of sexually assaulting children at religious gatherings
2 arrested for stealing mail from Ventura County post office
Man arrested by immigration agents outside Newsom's redistricting event in LA speaks
Hit-and-run driver arrested at Riverside County casino after deadly crash, police say
Featured
Dallas ICE Facility Shooting
Trump U.N. Speech
Secret Service Telecom Threat
Ryan Routh Convicted Of Trump Assassination Attempt
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Los Angeles
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KCBS-TV
Public File for KCAL-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue