Don't make this SSD mistake - here's the model I recommend for easy data transferring | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Storage
Don't make this SSD mistake - here's the model I recommend for easy data transferring
The Crucial T710 is the Gen5 NVMe SSD for gamers and content creators that don't want to compromise on performance.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 20, 2025 at 2:01 a.m. PT
Crucial T710 Gen5 NVMe SSD
ZDNET's key takeaways Crazy fast drive, with reads and writes up to 14,900 and 13,800MB/s, respectively It does get warm in use, so you might need to fixe PC airflow or use a cooler
You need the right system to take advantage of the Gen5 performance that this drive has to offer $429.99 at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Storage has always been a bottleneck in terms of performance, and it's a demand-driven thing. As storage gets faster, so do the pressures put on it. This is why 5th-generation NVMe SSDs are such a game-changer for serious gamers who need all the speed they can get and pro-grade content creators, especially those who handle 100GB-plus files. Also: The best M.2 SSDs you can buyThese drives offer twice the performance of the previous-generation hardware, and they've now been around for a bit, so prices have come down.A good example of this is the Crucial T710. This drive is a beast -- as long as you have a system that can handle it.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Crucial T710 Gen5 NVMe SSD One of the fastest drives you can buy, but it does need the right hardware to unlock the power.
details
View at Amazon The first thing that anyone thinking about upgrading to a Gen5 NVMe SSD needs to consider is whether their system can handle the drive. While it is backward-compatible with older Gen4 and Gen3 systems, you won't get the performance. To make use of a Gen5 drive, you'll need an AMD Ryzen 7000 series or later or an Intel 12th, 13th or 14th generation Core processor. Additionally, you'll need that paired with a motherboard with an AMD X670E, X670, B650E, or Intel Z890, Z790, and Z690 chipset. If you have that sorted, you're ready to go. Also: Why I no longer recommend pre-built SSDs for Windows PCs - and what you should buy insteadThe Crucial T710 2280 M.2 SSD is about as fast as they get. On paper, it's rated for sequential reads and writes up to 14,900 and 13,800MB/s, respectively. I've benchmarked a drive from this range and got results within 5% of these figures (well, at least I did once I updated the system's firmware to fix a performance issue).The drive supports AES-256 encryption and has a TBW (terabytes written) rating between 600TB and 2400TB (the larger the drive, the bigger the rating), and comes with a 5-year limited warranty.
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET A fact of life about running Gen5 NVMe SSDs is that they run warm to hot. And the harder you work them, the hotter they get. This isn't usually a problem -- it certainly wasn't for me when testing the T710 -- but if your case has poor airflow or all the fans are choked up with dirt, you might want to sort that out or, at the very least, use a cooler. If you have the room in your system, you can use a basic passive cooler, something a bit more fancy, or something really fancy (which is still less than $30).Also: This underwater action cam captured my Hawaii trip in ways I didn't think possibleEvery time I mention Gen5 NVMe SSDs, someone always asks me about external enclosures' support for this. Enclosures do exist -- take the Acasis 80Gbps M.2 NVMe SSD enclosure -- but you're going to pay around $200, and even with Thunderbolt 5 support on the system it's connected to, performance is going to level out at around 6,000MB/s. That's good, but it leaves a lot in the tank unused. ZDNET's buying adviceThe T710 is certainly worth considering for a system that can handle Gen5 NVMe SSDs. Its performance and price are exceptional. The Crucial T710 is offered in 1TB, 2TB, and 4TB configurations. And right now, prices are unbelievably good with 17% off the 1TB version, bringing that down to $200, 18% off the 2TB version, now only $294, and a massive 35% off the 4TB version, bringing it down from $660 to only $430. Those are prices that are very hard to beat, and the sort of thing that makes me sit up and pay attention.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How much RAM do you really need in 2025? I broke it down for Mac and Windows users
7 most Windows-like Linux distros - if you're ready to ditch Microsoft
I answered the million-dollar question about buying monitors - how to pick the right one
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use