Best Hearing Aids Of 2025, According To Experts – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
Best of
3.0
Our ratings take into account the card’s rewards, fees, rates along with the card’s category. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.
Why we picked it
Read More
SCROLL TO SITE
SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids Of 2025, According To Experts
Audited & Verified: Aug 8, 2025, 10:12am
Jessica Lester
Former Staff Editor
Jessica is a writer, editor and media professional who has spent her career working with some of the most influential names in media. Prior to joining Forbes Health, Jessica was the manager of creative communications at Hearst, where she specialized...
See Full Bio
Jessica Lester
Former Staff Editor
Jessica is a writer, editor and media professional who has spent her career working with some of the most influential names in media. Prior to joining Forbes Health, Jessica was the manager of creative communications at Hearst, where she specialized...
See Full Bio
Written By
Jessica Lester
Jessica Lester
Former Staff Editor
Jessica is a writer, editor and media professional who has spent her career working with some of the most influential names in media. Prior to joining Forbes Health, Jessica was the manager of creative communications at Hearst, where she specialized...
See Full Bio
Jessica Lester
Former Staff Editor
Jessica is a writer, editor and media professional who has spent her career working with some of the most influential names in media. Prior to joining Forbes Health, Jessica was the manager of creative communications at Hearst, where she specialized...
See Full Bio
Former Staff Editor
Lindsey Banks, Au.D.
Audiologist
Lindsey Banks is a Florida-licensed audiologist and fellow of the American Academy of Audiology. She currently provides tinnitus and hearing loss support for patients online at Dr. Hearing Loss. She previously managed other audiologists at Center for...
See Full Bio
Lindsey Banks, Au.D.
Audiologist
Lindsey Banks is a Florida-licensed audiologist and fellow of the American Academy of Audiology. She currently provides tinnitus and hearing loss support for patients online at Dr. Hearing Loss. She previously managed other audiologists at Center for...
See Full Bio
Lindsey Banks, Au.D.
Lindsey Banks, Au.D.
Audiologist
Lindsey Banks is a Florida-licensed audiologist and fellow of the American Academy of Audiology. She currently provides tinnitus and hearing loss support for patients online at Dr. Hearing Loss. She previously managed other audiologists at Center for...
See Full Bio
Lindsey Banks, Au.D.
Audiologist
Lindsey Banks is a Florida-licensed audiologist and fellow of the American Academy of Audiology. She currently provides tinnitus and hearing loss support for patients online at Dr. Hearing Loss. She previously managed other audiologists at Center for...
See Full Bio
Medically Reviewed
|
Audiologist
& 1 other
Audited & Verified: Aug 8, 2025, 10:12am
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Finding a hearing aid that’s comfortable and effective for your specific needs requires research. To find the best hearing aids, the Forbes Health editorial team consulted multiple audiologists for their top recommendations. Additionally, two editors traveled to Western Washington University in Bellingham, Washington, for product testing in the university’s hearing lab and focus group testing with five participants. Star ratings were solely determined by the Forbes Health editorial team and are based on a detailed methodology, including data points like starting price and product features that are typically important to hearing aid users, as well as laboratory findings and focus group participant feedback and ratings.
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about hearing health that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our hearing aids methodology for the rankings below.
5 hearing health experts consulted
15 hearing aid brands considered
5 focus group participants’ testing experiences utilized
13 products tested
Show More
Find The Best Hearing Aids
Best OTC Hearing Aids
Best Affordable Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids For Tinnitus
Best Invisible Hearing Aids
Best Bluetooth Hearing Aids
Eargo Hearing Aids Review
Lively Hearing Aids Review
Jabra Enhance Review
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
Sennheiser All-Day Clear
Sony CRE-E10
Zepp Clarity Pixie Hearing Aid
Phonak Audéo Sphere Infinio Hearing Aid
Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
Jabra Enhance Select 500 Hearing Aid
Jabra Enhance Select 300
Oticon Intent Hearing Aid
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Hearing Aids of 2025
How Do Hearing Aids Work?
How Much Do Hearing Aids Cost?
Types of Hearing Aids
Expert Tips for Adjusting to Hearing Aids
How to Choose the Best Hearing Aids
Summary: The Best Hearing Aids of 2025
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Jabra Enhance High-Tech Hearing Aids360-degree sound & bluetooth enabledNearly invisible with a sleek design Delivered straight to your door3 years of convenient, follow-up care from Jabra Enhance's audiology team	Shop Now	On Jabra Enhance's Website
Best Hearing Aids of 2025, According to Experts
Best Overall	Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
5.0
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $449Type: Behind-the-ear (BTE)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 20 hours	Shop Now	On Elehear's Website Why We Chose Elehear BeyondDuring in-person focus group testing, the Elehear Beyond stood out for its ability to improve, clarify and amplify sounds across the experiences of three participants. In fact, all three testers rated the hearing aid a four out of five stars for overall sound quality of speech. Participants also appreciated the control center within the Elehear app, which provided a user-friendly experience. Meanwhile, in laboratory testing, the Elehear Beyond scored a 73 out of 100 for sound quality and a 74 out of 100 for speech intelligibility.“Consumers appreciate the ease of setup with this device, rechargeability and volume controls that can be adjusted independently on [the] right and left ears. Additionally, the tinnitus maskers with this device are an added bonus. Overall, Elehear Beyond has an impressive number of controls for its price point.” Amy Sarow, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsOffers real-time artificial intelligence (AI) speech translation, as well as advanced AI noise reductionFeatures tinnitus maskingHearing aid is highly customizable via the Elehear app, according to focus group feedbackManufacturer offers a 45-day risk-free trialOnly available in two colorsAdditional charge incurred if user requires a longer receiver length than standard offeringParticipant experienced odd “chorus” effect when listening to pure tones or music in focus group testingShorter battery life compared to similar products	Proprietary Testing Insights for Elehear BeyondSound Quality: Elehear Beyond scored a 73 out of 100 in sound clarity based on laboratory data.Noise Reduction Performance: Scored 4.3 out of 5 based on focus group participant responses.Customization: Offers a personalized experience via the Elehear app, which focus group participants enjoyed (particularly the “speech focus” feature)Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 74 out of 100 based on laboratory testing results.Comfort Score: Rated 4.3 out of 5 based on participant feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantsThree individuals tested the Elehear Beyond. Steven, a first-time hearing aid user, found the device easy to set up and comfortable to wear, as well as enhancing sound volume and clarity. Two other participants, Jim (a first-time hearing aid user) and Timothy (who currently uses hearing aids), agreed the device immediately improved sound. All three reviewers said they were able to insert the hearing aids into their ears without difficulty. They also appreciated the features within the app and the level of control allotted when adjusting the hearing aid’s settings.“Better isolation features than the other OTCs I’ve tried.” – Timothy, 65, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester“[I] really like the all around or front-facing mode.” – Steven, 59, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Best Self-Fitting Hearing Aid	Sennheiser All-Day Clear
4.8
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $999.95Type: Receiver-in-canal (RIC)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and AndroidBattery life: Up to 16 hours	Shop Now	On Sennheiser's Website Why We Chose Sennheiser All-Day ClearThe device stands out for its self-fitting capability, meaning an audiologist may not need to adjust the aid for comfort and performance. Instead, users can set up and fit the device on their own time with the help of the Sennheiser Smart Control app.“An affordable OTC hearing aid with excellent sound quality from a well-known brand. It is rechargeable and has Bluetooth streaming capabilities for both Androids and iPhones.” – Lindsey Banks, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsUsers can create their own sound profileAffordable compared to other OTC hearing aids availableAutomatically detects and optimizes sound based on your environmentCompany offers an optional premium service, which includes additional support from a licensed hearing care professionalUnable to connect to app or Bluetooth during focus group testingShort battery life compared to other products on this listDoesn’t feature tinnitus management controlsUser reviews on the product page note charging port may be outdated	Proprietary Testing Insights for Sennheiser All-Day ClearSound Quality: The Sennheiser All-Day Clear scored an 80 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction Performance: Not scored due to Bluetooth connectivity malfunction during focus group.Customization: Unable to confirm customization features or capacity during focus group testing.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 78 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 3 out of 5, based on focus group participant feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantWhile our focus group participant, Steven, was unable to achieve a Bluetooth connection between the Sennheiser All-Day Clear and its accompanying app, he rated the hearing aid a 3 out of 5 for comfort, a 4 out of 5 for ease of set up, a 4 out of 5 for appearance and a 3 out of 5 for speech quality.
Best Battery Life	Sony CRE-E10
4.8
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $899.99Type: In-the-ear (ITE)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS onlyBattery life: Up to 26 hours, with disposable and rechargeable battery options	Shop Now	On Sony's Website Why We Chose Sony CRE-E10Our focus group participant found the Sony CRE-E10 easy to set up and insert into their ear, as well as fairly comfortable. Users can adjust volume control, sound balance and directionality of this self-fitting, OTC hearing aid—all from its accompanying app. Its features include wind noise reduction (which improves outdoor sounds), advanced acoustic processing, which provides for ease of listening, impact sound smoothing technology for sudden loud noises and more. It also boasts an impressive battery life of up to 26 hours.	Pros & ConsFairly comfortable and stays in place, according to our focus group participantUp to a 26-hour battery lifeEasy to setup and insert, per our focus group participantFree one-on-one virtual consult with an expert availableOur focus group participant experienced some minor connection difficulties initiallyUsers may experience a “flanging” or “chorus” effect when listening to pure tones or music, per our focus group participantOnly accessible to iOS usersMay not be helpful for tinnitus, based on our focus group participant’s experience	Proprietary Testing Insights for Sony CRE-E10Sound Quality: Sony CRE-E10 scored a 73 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction Performance: Scored 2 out of 5 based on focus group data.Customization: Our focus group participant felt there was adequate “headroom” for additional amplification and found the “tone” setting to be usefulSpeech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 76 out of 100 based on laboratory testing data.Comfort Score: Rated 3 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantOur reviewer of the Sony CRE-E10 hearing aids, Timothy, noticed an immediate improvement in speech and sound intelligibility and found the device setup to be simple. While he experienced a strange “flanging” or “chorus” effect while listening to music and pure tones, he found the hearing aid to be fairly comfortable and stayed in place well. In comparison to other hearing aids he’s used, the Sony CRE-E10 was more noticeable than his behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aids, but the experience was overall similar. Timothy added that while sounds were quite loud, and frequencies may have been amplified that shouldn’t have been, there was adequate “headroom” for additional amplification, if necessary. Though he experienced some minor connection difficulties initially, he found the tone setting to be useful and said all voices seemed to be amplified in a crowded room.“Quite easy to insert. I like the shape of the dome/eartip. They seem to stay in place fairly well.” – Timothy, 65, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Best for Comfort	Zepp Clarity Pixie Hearing Aid
4.5
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $1,999.00Type: In-the-ear (ITE)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and AndroidBattery life: Up to 17 hours Why We Chose Zepp Clarity PixieDuring our focus group testing, our participant particularly appreciated the shape and feel of this hearing aid. Additionally, she rated the Zepp Clarity Pixie a 5 out of 5 for both comfort and appearance. However, the device produced high sound distortion, squealing and feedback in our focus group testing, so it may be best for you if comfort reigns supreme.“A good invisible-ish OTC hearing aid.” – Abram Bailey, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & Cons60-day risk free return and 24-month limited warrantyLess visible compared to some modelsEasy to insert, per our focus group participantComfortable shape, per our focus group participantHigher price point compared to other models on this listDoesn’t offer tinnitus management featuresShorter battery life compared to others on this listOnly recommended by one Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Proprietary Testing Insights for Zepp Clarity PixieSound Quality: Zepp Clarity Pixie scored a 70 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testingNoise Reduction: Scored 1 out of 5 based on focus group data.Customization: Our focus group participant found the app to be unintuitive and was unable to make adjustments.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 76 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 5 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantOur single Zepp Clarity Pixie tester, Meredith, had some difficulty customizing this hearing aid. However, she appreciated its shape and ease of insertion. While she awarded the device five out of five for comfort, she experienced high sound distortion, squealing and feedback while testing the device, even when using it in a sound booth. These concerns made her unable to leave the hearing aids in her ears for any extended amount of time. She did not find the crowd setting to successfully isolate voices in a noisy room and felt it did not help with tinnitus.“I like only the shape. The setup and audible feedback/distortion prohibited me from being able to leave them in.” – Meredith, 53, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Best Hearing Loss Range	Phonak Audéo Sphere Infinio Hearing Aid
4.5
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $3,998Type: Behind-the-earHearing loss: Mild, moderate, severe and profoundBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 24 hours	Shop Now	On ZipHearing's Website Why We Chose Phonak Audéo Sphere InfinioThe Phonak Audéo Sphere Infinio is one of just two prescription hearing aid picks on this list. In our extensive lab testing, this device scored an impressive 90 out of 100 for sound quality (which includes smoothness, internal noise and bandwidth) and 78 out of 100 for speech quality. This Phonak hearing aid can be a fit with hearing loss levels ranging from mild to profound, making it a versatile pick.“Best for mild / moderate / severe / bluetooth / rechargeable / tinnitus. All around great hearing aids that are going to meet the needs of most people. ” – Abram Bailey, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsAvailable in five colorsOffers de-noising feature for group conversation settingsIncludes spheric speech clarity, which can separate unwanted noises from important soundsMade with a dedicated artificial intelligence (AI) chip to enhance speech clarity and expand listening rangeComes at a steep price pointCost not specifically noted on the websiteMay not be ideal for those seeking a product without AINot suitable for those looking for an OTC hearing aid	Proprietary Testing Insights for Phonak Audéo Sphere InfinioSound Quality: Phonak Audéo Sphere Infinio scored a 90 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction: Device not included in focus group testing as it requires a prescription.Customization: Offers a personalized experience via the myPhonak app, allowing users to personalize their hearing, adjust and create programs, find their hearing aids if lost and receive remote adjustments from experts when needed.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 78 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Device not included in focus group testing.From Our Focus Group ParticipantThis product was not included in focus group testing as it is a prescription hearing aid.
Best Budget Hearing Aid	Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
4.3
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $649.99Type: Receiver-in-canal (RIC)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 16 hours Why We Chose Lucid EngageIn our focus group testing, our participant appreciated the music quality and app pairing abilities of the Lucid Engage. We chose this hearing aid due to its unique speaker-in-the-ear format, which gives the wearer high definition natural sound with greater clarity, and it comes at a price point that won’t break the bank. This product also comes with a one-year warranty.“RIC style (most preferred style) hearing aid with good sound performance test results.” – Abram Bailey, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsAvailable in three colorsEasy to set up in focus group testingIncludes a free pair of hearing protection earplugs at checkoutMoisture-resistantOne of the shortest battery life options on this listTips and overall feel may be uncomfortable, per our product testerMay not be ideal for those with longer hair, per our product testerAdjustment and customization settings in app may be limited or difficult to navigate, per our product tester	Proprietary Testing Insights for Lucid EngageSound Quality: Lucid Engage scored a 73 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction Performance: Scored a 1 out of 5 based on focus group data.Customization: Our focus group participant appreciated being able to customize the amplification profile and was able to accurately toggle between streaming and ambiance.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 76 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 2 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantOur tester for the Lucid Engage hearing aid, Margaret, was satisfied with how easy it was to insert the device. However, she found issues with the technicalities of the device. She found the feeling of the tips in the ears to be uncomfortable, saying her ear felt “full.” While she was comfortable using the accompanying app, she felt there weren’t enough ways to make adjustments and found customizing her amplification profile and toggling between streaming and ambience settings difficult. She also found the hearing aid did not isolate voices well in a crowded or noisy room.“I don’t love them and probably wouldn’t spend much money on them. The gain I get in speech in multitalker babble is not worth the background noise. Music quality and app pairing was good. Lack of individualization to [the] hearing profile. [I] like that they are rechargeable, but I would want a battery option as well.” – Maggie, 38, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Most Preferred By Testers	Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
4.2
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $999Type: Receiver-in-canal (RIC)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 18 hours	Shop Now	On Lexie Hearing's Website Why We Chose Lexie B2 PlusOut of all of the hearing aids our focus group tested, the two participants who tried the Lexie B2 Plus were extremely satisfied with the sounds, noise reduction and overall feel of this hearing aid. Both testers felt it was their favorite or the best model they had tried. Plus, it scored well in sound quality, making this a well-rounded option.“Has good sound quality, rechargeability, [Bluetooth] call streaming and an easy-to-use app with a self-fitting function.” – Lindsey Banks, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & Cons45-day trial periodIdeal for individuals looking for a receiver-in-canal (RIC) style hearing aid, which Dr. Bailey claims is the most preferredOne-year warranty availableScored well in comfort, according to our focus group testersOnly available in one colorWebsite features limited information on device featuresMusic and media streaming weren’t optimal, according to focus group feedbackMay not be compatible with some Android devices	Proprietary Testing Insights for Lexie B2 PlusSound Quality: Lexie B2 Plus scored an 83 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction: Scored 4 out of 5 based on focus group data.Customization: One of our focus group participants felt there were not enough options for adjustment in the app.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored a 70 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 4 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantsTwo of our focus group participants, Maggie and Steven, tested the Lexie B2 Plus hearing aids. Both individuals found the hearing aid comfortable; however, Maggie stated that the thin tips are not her personal preference. Both also claimed the Lexie was the best out of the hearing aids they had tried in spite of connectivity issues, either with Bluetooth syncing or connecting to an Apple device.Meanwhile, Maggie was comfortable using the app, but she felt it didn’t have enough options for adjustment. She explained that she was unable to localize sound as well as she was able to with other hearing aids and couldn’t get the settings quite right for conversation in a noisy environment.“Of the three I tried, these are my favorite. [They] just feel natural.” – Steven, 59, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester“I don’t like the tips but otherwise [these are] comfortable (I haven’t liked any of the thin tips with BTE so these aren’t standing out, I think this is just personal preference).” – Maggie, 38, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Best for Customer Support	Jabra Enhance Select 500 Hearing Aid
4.2
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $1,795Type: Receiver-in-canal (RIC)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 24 hours 	Shop Now	On Jabra Enhance's Website Why We Chose Jabra Enhance Select 500With the purchase of the premium package, this hearing aid includes three years of follow-up care from the company’s audiology team and three years of remote adjustments based on your individual hearing needs. While our focus group participant was unable to connect to the Jabra Enhance Select 500, this hearing aid ranked highly for sound quality (90 out of 100) in our laboratory testing. It also comes with a strong battery life of up to 24 hours.“This product is an excellent option for consumers with mild-to-moderate hearing loss looking for budget-friendly hearing aids.” – Amy Sarow, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member.Dr. Sarow also recommends this specific model for “individuals who spend more time in dynamic listening environments (e.g., reverberant settings, noisy restaurants, etc.) and can afford the higher technology level.”	Pros & ConsPremium background noise processing, according to Dr. SarowAvailable in five colorsLengthy battery lifeJabra offers step-by-step support to ensure your hearing aid fits comfortablyDoes not offer tinnitus management featuresDoes not perform well for music specificallyUnable to connect to Bluetooth, even with the help of an IT professional, during focus group testingFocus group participants couldn’t verify features listed on the product website	Proprietary Testing Insights for Jabra Enhance Select 500Sound Quality: Jabra Enhance Select 500 scored a 90 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction: Unable to connect during focus group testing.Customization: Unable to verify during focus group testing due to connectivity issues.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 72 out of 100 based on lab data.Comfort Score: Unable to connect during focus group testing.From Our Focus Group ParticipantFocus group participants and facilitators were unable to successfully connect to Bluetooth, including with the help of an IT professional, for the 500 model.
Best In-App Customization	Jabra Enhance Select 300
4.0
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $1,495Type: Receiver-in-canal (RIC)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 24 hours	Shop Now	On Jabra Enhance's Website Why We Chose Jabra Enhance Select 300Two of our focus group participants were pleased with the Jabra Enhance Select 300’s ability to boost their hearing, as well as sound intelligibility. They also found the product to be comfortable and enjoyed the level of adjustments available to customize within the app. “We’ve heard a lot of glowing reviews from Jabra Enhance Select users in their satisfaction with the technology and service they get from Jabra Enhance Select. The 300 is great for most people and what I would generally recommend, as it has advanced background support for noisy situations.” – Amy Sarow, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & Cons100-day risk-free trialBoth focus group participants were pleased with the adjustment settings in the appThree years of hearing care with premium packageAvailable in five colorsUsers may experience difficulty in establishing a connection during set up, per our focus group participant’s initial attempts to connectNot great for individuals who aren’t comfortable with taking virtual calls or using a Smartphone appDoesn’t offer tinnitus management featuresDoes not perform well for music	Proprietary Testing Insights for Jabra Enhance Select 300Sound Quality: Jabra Enhance Select 300 scored a 90 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory data.Noise Reduction Performance: Scored 4 out of 5 based on focus group data.Customization: Our focus group participants found the app to be straightforward and easy to learn with sufficient adjustment settings.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 72 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 4 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantsTwo of our focus group participants, Timothy and Jim, tested the Jabra Enhance Select 300.From the start, both testers noticed an improvement or boost in their ability to hear and appreciated the feel of the device in their ears. Timothy had no problem inserting the hearing aids, while Jim expressed that his first attempt felt “clumsy.” Timothy experienced a “chorus” effect when listening to pure tones or music, but Jim felt he was able to eliminate high-treble tinnyness. Both individuals were pleased with the accompanying app and found it to be easy to learn and straightforward, with the ability to make significant adjustments. Timothy felt that this hearing aid did not help with tinnitus besides the signal-to-noise ratio, while Jim felt it was more helpful, finding that more sound covered his tinnitus.“The app is straightforward and easy to learn. There are sufficient adjustable settings.” – Timothy, 65, Bellingham, Washington,  Product Tester“No tinnyness. Feel confident in eliminating high-treble tinnyness by using sound enhancing bar” – Jim, 55, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Best Laboratory Sound Quality Score	Oticon Intent Hearing Aid
4.0
Our ratings take into account the hearing aid’s price, wireless connectivity, ability for fine-tuning, audiologist fitting and features. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team. Price: $4,898Type: Receiver-in-canal (RIC)Hearing loss: Mild, moderate and severeBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 20 hours	Shop Now	On ZipHearing's Website Why We Chose Oticon IntentThe Oticon Intent is the second of two prescription hearing aid picks on this list. In our extensive laboratory testing, this hearing aid scored an impressive 97 out of 100 for sound quality and a 76 out of 100 for speech clarity. Users are able to stream from a variety of devices, opt for hands-free calling and use a one-stop shop accompanying app for adjusting hearing aids. The Oticon Intent uses BrainHearing technology driven by sensors and adapts based on what you want and need to hear in different settings.“The feedback manager feature from Oticon is top notch.” – Lindsey Banks, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsHighest sound quality score (97 out of 100) in our laboratory testingHands-free callingScored a 76 out of 100 for speech clarity in our laboratory testingUp to 20 hours of battery lifeScored only 66 out of 100 in our laboratory testing for feedback resistanceNot suitable for individuals looking for an OTC hearing aidMost expensive device on this listPrices can’t be confirmed on website	Proprietary Testing Insights for Oticon IntentSound Quality: Oticon Intent scored a 97 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction Performance: Not included in focus group testing as this is a prescription hearing aid.Customization: Accompanying app not tested during focus group.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored a 76 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Not included in focus group testing.From Our Focus Group ParticipantThis product was not included in focus group testing as a prescription is needed for this hearing aid.
Note: All product prices listed are accurate as of the publication date. Forbes Health expert and medical reviewers do not endorse the brands, products and/or services listed in this article. Medical and expert reviewers corroborate the accuracy of informational content only.
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Hearing Aids of 2025
To determine the best hearing aids, the Forbes Health editorial team consulted several audiologists on the Forbes Health Advisory Board for specific product recommendations based on their years of experience fitting various hearing aid models for a wide array of individuals. Each expert was careful to consider the newest technology available in the hearing aid space when providing their recommendations, as well as newer brands and the roles they’re playing in this constantly evolving industry.
We also partnered with Western Washington University (WWU)’s audiology hearing department to conduct extensive laboratory testing, including sound quality, speech clarity and intelligibility (including smoothness, internal noise and bandwidth) and feedback resistance. Plus, two Forbes Health editors conducted an in-person focus group with five participants at WWU to explore OTC device comfort and functionality.
Star ratings were solely determined by the editorial team, based on detailed methodology points, including:
Ziphearing starting price for a pair/brand, starting price for a pair (OTC) and Hearing Tracker price for prescription: 20%
Speech intelligibility, sound quality, output and safety and responsiveness scores: 20%
Number of board members who recommend this hearing aid: 10%
If it has tinnitus management specific features: 10%
Whether it performs well for background noise reduction: 10%
If it performs well for music: 10%
If it has a disposable and rechargeable battery option and maximum battery life on a single charge (rechargeable only; in hours): 7.5%
Whether it is Bluetooth compatible and if it connects well with iOS and Android devices: 7.5%
Whether it has an app for customization, remote management, etc.: 5%
Our list features both prescription and over-the-counter (OTC) hearing aids, ranked using the same methodology. However, it’s important to understand how these classes of hearing aids differ. While OTC devices tend to be significantly more affordable, they’re only appropriate for people with perceived mild to moderate hearing loss who are comfortable setting up the devices themselves. Meanwhile, available via audiologists and other hearing health specialists following a hearing test, prescription hearing aids can be suitable for people with mild to profound hearing loss and tend to have much more customizable fitting options, as well as additional technology and features managed by a professional.
Read more about our hearing aids review methodology.
How Do Hearing Aids Work?
A hearing aid is a small electronic device, typically worn behind or in the ear, that amplifies sound to help compensate for mild to profound hearing loss. While hearing aids aren’t a cure for hearing loss, they can improve the baseline for what a user is able to hear, potentially improving their quality of life. Hearing aids come in a wide variety of styles and sizes and can be worn by people of all ages with hearing loss.
A hearing aid typically contains three main parts: a microphone, an amplifier and a speaker. The microphone converts acoustic sound waves from the user’s environment into electrical signals, which are then processed and enhanced by the amplifier. Those signals are then sent to the speaker, which converts them back into sound waves, delivering a louder and clearer sound to the ear, helping to improve a user’s hearing and make speech from others easier to understand.
In addition to amplification technology, hearing aids also offer an abundance of capabilities to help a person interact with their environment seamlessly. Other features a hearing aid might offer include:
A directional microphone that makes conversing in noisy environments easier
A telecoil (t-coil) that amplifies a speaker’s voice over background noise in public places
Remote microphones, which bring an outside voice or sound directly to the hearing aid
Feedback suppression technology, which reduces acoustic feedback (often experienced with phones)
Impulse noise and wind reduction technologies
Rechargeable batteries
Wireless connectivity with Bluetooth-compatible devices
Remote controls for easy adjustments
Preprogrammed settings tailored to different listening needs and environments
Mobile app that allows users to adjust settings directly from their phone
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Atom Pro 2Audien's smallest, most powerful hearing aid yetAtom sound technology for feedback cancelationWireless charging case that holds up to four days worth of chargeSet up in minutes to experience crisp, clear soundKills 99.9% of Bacteria While Charging	Shop Now	On Audien Hearing's Website
How Much Do Hearing Aids Cost?
Hearing aid prices can vary dramatically depending on the device manufacturer, the model a user selects, additional technology features and the audiologist from whom a user purchases them. The list price typically refers to the price of a singular hearing aid, as a person may not experience hearing loss in both ears. For individuals who do experience hearing loss in both ears, the price of hearing aids likely doubles from what’s listed by hearing aid retailers.
Starting prices for a pair of hearing aids in 2025 ranged from about $449 to $4,898, based on our data. The price breakdown for both OTC and prescription hearing aids is as follows:
BEST OTC HEARING AIDS
Product
Cost
Elehear Beyond
$449
Sennheiser All Day Clear
$999.95
Sony CRE-E10
$899.99
Zepp Clarity Pixie
$1,999
Lucid Engage
$649.99
Lexie B2 Plus
$999
Jabra Enhance Select 500
$1,795
Jabra Enhance Select 300
$1,495
See More See Less
BEST PRESCRIPTION HEARING AIDS
Product
Cost
Phonak Audéo Infinio
$3,998
Oticon Intent
$4,898
See More See Less
The cost of hearing aids is determined by various factors, including (but not limited to):
Continuous research and development for product and technology innovation
Bundled services, such as combining device and service costs, which can make the cost of the hearing aids appear inflated
Markups on hearing aid products from manufacturers
Limited insurance coverage options
While expensive hearing aids may come with more advanced technology features like Bluetooth compatibility or wireless streaming, they aren’t necessarily the best choice for all users. Affordable hearing aids, while offering a lower price tag, may also offer more basic features and technology. Plus, less expensive hearing aids may not serve all degrees of hearing loss. The best hearing aid for any user depends on numerous factors, including a person’s specific degree of hearing loss, style preferences and more. Users interested in purchasing a hearing aid should consult with an audiologist or hearing expert to help determine the best, most affordable hearing aid for their needs.
Does Medicare Cover Hearing Aids?
Medicare and most private insurance plans don’t cover hearing aids. However, some insurance plans, including Medicare Advantage, may pay for some costs, depending on a customer’s plan.
Other organizations that may cover hearing aid costs include the Veterans Administration and Federal Employees Health Benefits program.
Types of Hearing Aids
There are a variety of hearing aid types and styles available to best suit a person’s degree of hearing loss, fit preferences, lifestyle needs and physical abilities (such as finger dexterity needed for replacing batteries). Some hearing aid devices sit outside the ear, others nestle completely in the ear, and several types have both inner and outer ear components.
Read our in-depth guide to different types of hearing aids for more information.
Expert Tips for Adjusting to Hearing Aids
Hearing aids can require an adjustment period for both experienced users trying a new device and people wearing hearing aids for the first time.
“How long it takes to adjust to hearing aids can vary person to person,” says Megan Bilodeau, Au.D., an audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “Some people get used to hearing aids very quickly, within a few days, while others might take a few weeks or a month to adjust.”
In the initial adjustment period, Dr. Bilodeau suggests wearing the new hearing aids during all waking hours helps the brain adjust to the new sound.
“If someone is really struggling, I recommend turning the volume down a step or two over taking the hearing aids out,” she adds.
Additionally, Healthy Hearing, a directory of hearing aid clinics throughout the U.S. and hearing aid information, suggests implementing the following steps for a smoother transition to wearing hearing aids:
Wear the hearing aids at home instead of in a noisy environment.
Get extra “practice” by listening to different forms of audio content, such as the radio, television or audiobooks while wearing the hearing aids.
Take breaks from wearing hearing aids while adjusting—and slowly increase the number of hours of wear over time.
Schedule follow-up appointments with a hearing health professional to ensure the devices are customized and optimized to maximize hearing, and report any pain or tenderness.
Expect a learning curve and practice patience while the brain and body adjust to the new device.
Keep in mind, if a hearing aid isn’t sized properly, it may cause some discomfort or side effects, including:
Soreness around the ear where the hearing aid sits
Skin irritation
Itchiness in the ear canal
Trouble hearing properly
Headaches
Tinnitus
Excessive feedback from the hearing aid
To avoid these side effects, it’s important a user speaks with their audiologist to make sure they’re wearing the best hearing aids for their needs and preferences, as well as that the devices fit appropriately.
Hearing Aids Personalized For You
Jabra Enhance's hearing aids are custom-programmed based on your test results so that you'll have personalized sound right out of the box.
Get Started
On Jabra Enhance's Website
How to Take Care of Hearing Aids
As hearing aids can be a hefty financial investment, it’s important to take care of the devices to ensure they provide quality support for as long as possible. Luckily, most hearing aids are relatively low maintenance, says Dr. Bilodeau. “I always recommend giving the hearing aids a quick look over every night when taking them out to check for any wax or debris. This can typically be wiped off with a cloth.”
Some hearing aids may include a small wax filter that should be periodically replaced, she adds. While this filter can typically be replaced at home (depending on a person’s dexterity capabilities), she notes certain hearing aid styles may have tubes that need to be replaced by an audiologist about every six months.
According to hearing aid manufacturer Starkey, hearing aid users should:
Wash their hands before handling hearing aids
Keep devices in a safe place away from pets or small children.
Turn off hearing aids when not in use.
Routinely swap out old filters or wax guards.
Avoid wearing devices while swimming, showering or while in other excessively damp conditions.
Consistently see a hearing health professional to get more thorough cleanings and maintenance.
How to Choose the Best Hearing Aids
The best hearing aid is one that meets an individual’s degree of hearing loss, comfort preferences and lifestyle. Working with a hearing health professional and considering several additional factors, such as dexterity and budget, can help identify the proper product for a person’s hearing health needs.
A great hearing aid fit hinges on three things:
Type of hearing loss. Many people lose high-frequency hearing first. Others have difficulty across all frequencies. Hearing tests measure sensitivity (how loud a sound has to be to be heard) and clarity (how well someone can understand speech.)
Lifestyle. An individual’s lifestyle preferences indicate which features, such as Bluetooth connectivity, are important. Also, certain hearing aid styles, such as behind-the-ear or completely-in-the-canal, may be better or worse for certain situations.
Dexterity. If a user has trouble manipulating batteries, a rechargeable hearing aid is often recommended.The most important factors for hearing aid success are acoustic fit and physical fit, says audiologist Catherine Palmer, former president of the American Academy of Audiology and director of audiology and hearing aids at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Acoustic fit is how well an audiologist programs the aids to a wearer’s specific hearing needs. Physical fit has to do with how well the device fits in their ear, which affects both hearing and comfort.
Once a user finds their perfect-fitting hearing aid, it’s important to ensure the other features and capabilities included in the model meet their needs and expectations.
Ask about a hearing aid trial period. Depending on a user’s location, a trial period to test any new hearing aids may be required. In most states, users are required to have 30 to 60 days to test hearing aids and return them for any reason. Individuals should investigate their state’s requirements, as well as whether part or all of their payment is refundable if they return their hearing aids within the allotted trial period.
Ask about the full capabilities of the hearing aid. Even if the user only has moderate hearing loss now, that may change in the future. Purchasing a hearing aid that can meet potential future needs may help save on costs. Ask your audiologist or hearing health professional about hearing aid models that not only help your current degree of hearing loss, but also offer adjustable settings to treat more significant levels of hearing loss in the future.
Gather warranty information. Reputable hearing aids come with their own warranties on parts repairs and maintenance. Audiologists might also offer their own warranty to cover professional services, too.
Summary: The Best Hearing Aids of 2025
Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
5.0
Shop NowOn Elehear's Website
Best Overall
Sennheiser All-Day Clear
4.8
Shop NowOn Sennheiser's Website
Best Self-Fitting Hearing Aid
Sony CRE-E10
4.8
Shop NowOn Sony's Website
Best Battery Life
Zepp Clarity Pixie Hearing Aid
4.5
View More
Best for Comfort
Phonak Audéo Sphere Infinio Hearing Aid
4.5
Shop NowOn ZipHearing's Website
Best Hearing Loss Range
Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
4.3
View More
Best Budget Hearing Aid
Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
4.2
Shop NowOn Lexie Hearing's Website
Most Preferred By Testers
Jabra Enhance Select 500 Hearing Aid
4.2
Shop NowOn Jabra Enhance's Website
Best for Customer Support
Jabra Enhance Select 300
4.0
Shop NowOn Jabra Enhance's Website
Best In-App Customization
Oticon Intent Hearing Aid
4.0
Shop NowOn ZipHearing's Website
Best Laboratory Sound Quality Score
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATINGS
BEST FOR
LEARN MORE
Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
5.0
Best Overall
Shop NowOn Elehear's Website
Sennheiser All-Day Clear
4.8
Best Self-Fitting Hearing Aid
Shop NowOn Sennheiser's Website
Sony CRE-E10
4.8
Best Battery Life
Shop NowOn Sony's Website
Zepp Clarity Pixie Hearing Aid
4.5
Best for Comfort
View More
Phonak Audéo Sphere Infinio Hearing Aid
4.5
Best Hearing Loss Range
Shop NowOn ZipHearing's Website
Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
4.3
Best Budget Hearing Aid
View More
Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
4.2
Most Preferred By Testers
Shop NowOn Lexie Hearing's Website
Jabra Enhance Select 500 Hearing Aid
4.2
Best for Customer Support
Shop NowOn Jabra Enhance's Website
Jabra Enhance Select 300
4.0
Best In-App Customization
Shop NowOn Jabra Enhance's Website
Oticon Intent Hearing Aid
4.0
Best Laboratory Sound Quality Score
Shop NowOn ZipHearing's Website
See More See Less
Alena Hall and Carley Prendergast also contributed to this article.
Note: All product prices listed are accurate as of the publication date. Forbes Health expert and medical reviewers do not endorse the brands, products and/or services listed in this article. Medical and expert reviewers corroborate the accuracy of informational content only.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What is the number one rated hearing aid?
The top rated hearing aids, according to our list of best hearing aids, are the Elehear Beyond hearing aids, which are noted for their budget-friendly cost, user-friendly app and sound quality. However, the best way to find hearing aids that are suited for specific needs is to work with an audiologist who can administer a hearing test, help diagnose any degree of hearing loss and make recommendations for the most effective technology.
Which hearing aid is best for seniors?
The best hearing aid for seniors is the one that best fits their hearing health needs, lifestyle and budget. It’s important for an older adult to consult with an audiologist to ensure they find the hearing aid that is most effective for their degree of hearing loss, and one they can realistically use on a daily basis. For example, a rechargeable hearing aid may be a better choice for an older adult with dexterity issues, as some hearing aids require batteries that can be small and difficult to replace.
Do expensive hearing aids make a difference?
A higher priced hearing aid may include more advanced technological features, which can improve a user’s experience. Whether a hearing aid with added features, such as Bluetooth capabilities, is worth the cost depends on the needs and preferences of the user.
Sources
Footnotes
Hearing Loss Facts and Statistics. Hearing Loss Association of America. Accessed 4/27/2022.
Livingston G, Huntley J, Sommerlad A, et al.
Dementia prevention, intervention, and care: 2020 report of the Lancet Commission. The Lancet. 2020;396:413-346.
References
Join Costco.
Costco. Accessed 2/28/2024.
Hearing Aids.
National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders. Accessed 2/28/2024.
Next Up In
Hearing Aids
Best Invisible Hearing Aids Of 2025
Best Over-the-Counter (OTC) Hearing Aids
Best Bluetooth Hearing Aids
Best Affordable Hearing Aids
Jabra Enhance Hearing Aids Review
Phonak Hearing Aids Review
Oticon Hearing Aids Review
How To Get Free Hearing Aids For Seniors
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Jessica Lester
Former Staff Editor
Jessica is a writer, editor and media professional who has spent her career working with some of the most influential names in media. Prior to joining Forbes Health, Jessica was the manager of creative communications at Hearst, where she specialized in high-level production and project management. As a freelance writer, Jessica has written across a range of topics, including entertainment, travel and career. Her work can be found in Variety, Paste Magazine, The Muse and on her personal website (jessicamlester.com).
Lindsey Banks, Au.D.
Audiologist
Lindsey Banks is a Florida-licensed audiologist and fellow of the American Academy of Audiology. She currently provides tinnitus and hearing loss support for patients online at Dr. Hearing Loss. She previously managed other audiologists at Center for Sight, a large ophthalmology-owned private practice, and provided patient care through hearing diagnostic testing, hearing aid fittings and tinnitus counseling. Banks also previously served as an audiology extern for the Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center and a clinical and dispensing audiologist and tinnitus specialist for ENT Hearing Associates of South Florida. She spent six years helping grow EverydayHearing.com as a medical reviewer and consultant as well.
Find The Best Hearing Aids
Best OTC Hearing Aids
Best Affordable Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids For Tinnitus
Best Invisible Hearing Aids
Best Bluetooth Hearing Aids
Eargo Hearing Aids Review
Lively Hearing Aids Review
Jabra Enhance Review
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise