Uncontrolled high blood pressure puts over a billion people at risk
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Português
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Home/
News/
item/
Uncontrolled high blood pressure puts over a billion people at risk
WHO / Tafadzwa Ufumeli
Nurse Euna checks the blood pressure of Agnes, 46, at her homestead in Masvingo, Zimbabwe. Agnes receives treatment under the Package of Essential Non-Communicable Diseases (PEN-Plus) programme by SolidarMED.
©
Credits
Uncontrolled high blood pressure puts over a billion people at risk
23 September 2025
News release
Reading time:
The World Health Organization (WHO) today released its second Global hypertension report, showing that 1.4 billion people lived with hypertension in 2024, yet just over one in five have it under control either through medication or addressing modifiable health risks. The new report – released at an event co-hosted by WHO, Bloomberg Philanthropies, and Resolve to Save Lives during the 80th United Nations General Assembly – also reveals that only 28% of low-income countries report that all WHO-recommended hypertension medicines are generally available in pharmacies or primary care facilities. Hypertension is a leading cause of heart attack, stroke, chronic kidney disease, and dementia. It is both preventable and treatable – but without urgent action, millions of people will continue to die prematurely, and countries will face mounting economic losses. From 2011 to 2025, cardiovascular diseases – including hypertension – are projected to cost low- and middle-income countries approximately US$ 3.7 trillion, equivalent to around 2% of their combined GDP. "Every hour, over 1000 lives are lost to strokes and heart attacks from high blood pressure, and most of these deaths are preventable," said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General. "Countries have the tools to change this narrative. With political will, ongoing investment, and reforms to embed hypertension control in health services, we can save millions and ensure universal health coverage for all."“Uncontrolled high blood pressure claims more than 10 million lives every year, despite being both preventable and treatable. Countries that integrate hypertension care into universal health coverage and primary care are making real progress, but too many low- and middle-income countries are still left behind,” said Dr Kelly Henning, who leads the Bloomberg Philanthropies Public Health Program. “Strong policies that raise awareness and expand access to treatment are critical to reducing cardiovascular disease and preventable deaths.”Persistent barriersAnalysis of data from 195 countries and territories shows that 99 of them have national hypertension control rates below 20%. The majority of the affected people live in low- and middle-income countries, where health systems face resource constraints.The report highlights major gaps in hypertension prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and long-term care. Key barriers include weak health promotion policies (on risk factors such as alcohol, tobacco use, physical inactivity, salt, and trans fats), limited access to validated blood pressure devices, lack of standardized treatment protocols and trained primary care teams, unreliable supply chains and costly medicines, inadequate financial protection for patients, and insufficient information systems to monitor trends.Access to medicines: a cornerstone of progressBlood pressure medication is one of the most cost-effective public health tools. Yet only 7 out of 25 (28%) of low-income countries report general availability of all WHO-recommended medicines, compared to 93% of high-income countries. The report explores the barriers and strategies for improving access to hypertension medication through better regulatory systems, pricing and reimbursement, procurement and supply chain management, and improved prescribing and dispensing of these medicines. “Safe, effective, low-cost medicines to control blood pressure exist, but far too many people can’t get them,” said Dr Tom Frieden, President & CEO, Resolve to Save Lives. “Closing that gap will save lives — and save billions of dollars every year.”Country-level progressDespite barriers, progress is possible. Bangladesh, the Philippines, and the Republic of Korea have made significant progress by integrating hypertension care into universal health coverage (UHC), investing in primary care, and engaging communities:Bangladesh increased hypertension control from 15% to 56% in some regions between 2019-2025 through embedding hypertension treatment services in its essential health service package and strengthening screening and follow-up care.The Philippines has effectively incorporated the WHO’s HEARTS technical package into community-level services nationwide.The Republic of Korea has integrated health reforms, including low costs for antihypertensive medications and limiting patient fees, which have resulted in the high rate of blood pressure control nationally: 59% in 2022. WHO calls on all countries to embed hypertension control in UHC reforms. Implementing the measures recommended in the report could prevent millions of premature deaths and ease the massive social and economic toll of uncontrolled high blood pressure.Editor’s note: WHO defines clinical hypertension in adults as systolic blood pressure ≥140 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure ≥90 mmHg on two different days. By contrast, high blood pressure can increase the risk of heart and kidney disease even at levels below this threshold. For example, systolic blood pressure under 130 mmHg — though not classified as hypertension — still raises health risks. About the World Health OrganizationDedicated to the well-being of all people and guided by science, the World Health Organization leads and champions global efforts to give everyone, everywhere an equal chance at a safe and healthy life. We are the UN agency for health that connects nations, partners and people on the front lines in 150+ locations – leading the world’s response to health emergencies, preventing disease, addressing the root causes of health issues and expanding access to medicines and health care. Our mission is to promote health, keep the world safe and serve the vulnerable. For more information, visit www.who.int and follow WHO on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, TikTok, Pinterest, YouTube.About Bloomberg PhilanthropiesBloomberg Philanthropies invests in 700 cities and 150 countries around the world to ensure better, longer lives for the greatest number of people. The organization focuses on creating lasting change in five key areas: the Arts, Education, Environment, Government Innovation, and Public Health. Bloomberg Philanthropies encompasses all of Michael R. Bloomberg’s giving, including his foundation, corporate, and personal philanthropy as well as Bloomberg Associates, a philanthropic consultancy that advises cities around the world. In 2024, Bloomberg Philanthropies distributed $3.7 billion. For more information, please visit bloomberg.org, sign up for our newsletter, or follow us on Instagram, LinkedIn, YouTube, Threads, Facebook, and X.The global hypertension report is funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies.About Resolve to Save LivesResolve to Save Lives is a global health organization that partners locally and globally to create and scale solutions to the world’s deadliest health threats. Since 2017, we’ve worked with governments and other partners in more than 60 countries to save millions of lives. To find out more, visit resolvetosavelives.org or LinkedIn.
Media Contacts
WHO Media Team
World Health Organization
Email:
mediainquiries@who.int
Jin Ni
Communications Officer
WHO
Telephone:
+41 (0)79 791 9098
Email:
jinn@who.int
Veronica Lewin
Bloomberg Philanthropies
Mobile:
+1-212-205-0026
Email:
veronical@bloomberg.org
Resolve to Save Lives
Email:
press@resolvetosavelives.org
Related
Global report on hypertension 2025: high stakes – turning evidence into action
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO