Prime Video: The 30 Absolute Best Shows to Watch - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
Prime Video: The 30 Absolute Best Shows to Watch
Here are some highly rated series to check out, plus a look at what's new in September.
Meara Isenberg Writer Meara covers streaming service news for CNET. She graduated from the University of Texas at Austin with a degree in journalism. When she's not writing, she likes to dote over her cat, sip black coffee and try out new horror movies.
See full bio
Meara Isenberg
Sept. 14, 2025
6:58 p.m. PT 11 min read
The Girlfriend, a psychological thriller series starring Olivia Cooke, is now streaming on Prime Video. Prime Video
Have you run out of TV series to tackle on Prime Video? Chances are, you're leaving some great options unwatched.You might know Amazon's streaming service best for shows like The Boys and Fallout -- and both are great -- but you shouldn't stop there if you have a subscription. The streamer is home to lesser-known series like The Devil's Hour and continues to add excellent options, such as the new college-set comedy Overcompensating.Note that Prime Video is ad-supported and charges an extra fee to remove commercials. Read on for this month's new releases and a collection of the best shows on the streamer.Watch Prime Video
See at Amazon
What's new on Prime Video in SeptemberNote: These descriptions are taken from Prime Video press releases and lightly edited for style.Sept. 1The Runarounds, season 1 premiere (2025- ): Teen drama. The series follows a group of recent high school graduates from Wilmington, North Carolina, who come together the summer after graduation to form a rock band.Sept. 10The Girlfriend, season 1 premiere (2025- ): Psychological thriller. The series follows a woman who seemingly has it all, but her perfect life begins to unravel when her son brings home a new girlfriend.Sept. 17Gen V, season 2 premiere (2023- ): Superhero. In season 2, the team of young superheroes learn of a secret program that goes back to the founding of Godolkin University that may have larger implications than they realize.Sept. 24Hotel Costiera, season 1 premiere (2025- ): Action drama. The series follows a half Italian former US Marine who returns to Italy, the land of his childhood, as a fixer in one of the world's most luxurious hotels.Best Amazon Prime Video original TV showsThis list focuses on shows that have premiered a new season since 2022.Superhero
Brooke Palmer/Prime Video
Gen V (2023- )
Gen V is a spin-off of Prime Video's hit violent and satirical series The Boys. Despite efforts to keep her head down, freshman Marie Moreau gets swept up in a mystery at Godolkin University, a prestigious but shadowy school for superheroes. The new series' strong characters and fresh story establish it as something pretty super in its own right. Another reason to watch? Season 4 of The Boys picks up after the events of the first Gen V season.
Amazon Studios
Invincible (2021- )
For those who aren't a fan of cartoons, Invincible could be your converter, up there with other adult cartoons like BoJack Horseman and Rick and Morty. Based on a comic book from Robert Kirkman, the creator of the Walking Dead, Invincible follows 17-year-old Mark Grayson and his training to become a superhero just like his father, who happens to be the most powerful superhero on the planet. Episodes run long at nearly 50 minutes, connected into one big, blood-spattered story. A subversive series with a huge cast featuring Steven Yeun, Sandra Oh and J.K. Simmons, Invincible will engross you in its smart animated world.
Amazon Studios
The Boys (2019- )
The Boys stormed Amazon with its ultra-violent tale of antihero vigilantes seeking revenge against the world's most beloved superheroes. These heroes aren't what they seem: Their corporate overlords cover up their shady personal lives, including sexual harassment and the odd assassination. With social commentary, black comedy and pops of gore, The Boys takes a thrilling and unapologetic step away from the family-friendly genre.
Crime
Tyler Golden/Prime
Ballard (2025- )
If you enjoyed Bosch and Bosch: Legacy, and you'd watch a spinoff or just want a thrilling new police drama to consume, Prime Video's Ballad should be at the top of your list. The series stars Maggie Q as the leader of the Los Angeles Police Department's underfunded cold-case division. The team deals with long-forgotten crimes, uncovering shocking information about the LAPD in the process.
Shane Mahood/Amazon Studios
Reacher (2022- )
Adapted from Lee Child's best-selling Jack Reacher book series, Reacher's eight-episode first season packs a muscular punch. Reacher, a brawny former US Army military policeman played by Alan Ritchson, arrives in a small town and is promptly arrested for a murder he didn't commit. Armed with killer strength and some solid detective skills, the protagonist eventually fends off an array of enemies while uncovering a criminal conspiracy. A treat for crime thriller fans and lovers of Child's novels.
Romance
David Lee/Prime Video
Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2024- )
Prime Video's Mr. & Ms. Smith cast Donald Glover and Maya Erskine in a story about strangers turned married spies. The eight-episode series reimagines the 2005 action film starring Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie, following the unconventional spy couple as they encounter risky missions and, inevitably, a change in their feelings for each other.
Dana Hawley/Prime Video
The Summer I Turned Pretty (2022- )
If a coming-of-age tale with a peak summer setting, a teenage love triangle and a soundtrack stocked with Taylor Swift songs sounds appealing to you, keep reading. The show centers on Belly (breakout actor Lola Tung), who makes a much-anticipated annual commute to a beach house with her mom and brother. She looks a bit different than she did the last time she set foot on Cousins Beach and spent time with her mom's best friend's sons, Conrad and Jeremiah. Young-adult author Jenny Han wrote the book on which the TV series is based and serves as one of the showrunners.
Prime Video
With Love (2021-2023)
Looking for love? With Love might be the perfect feel-good rom-com. The charming premise sees the Diaz siblings, Lily and Jorge, navigate major holidays across the year, from Halloween to Christmas -- major holidays that put pressure on singletons in search of romantic relationships. Follow the Diazes on their journey, along with their delightful and sometimes delightfully awkward extended family. An earnest, enjoyable breeze.
Comedy
Prime Video
Overcompensating (2025- )
If the news of Max's Sex Lives of College Girls getting canceled left you aching for a new collegiate comedy to obsess over, don't skip Overcompensating. The series' first episode follows university freshmen Benny and Carmen, who feel the pressure to do the deed on night one, lest their social statuses plummet. However, former high school football star Benny is attracted to guys and closeted. Authentic and funny, this series from comedian Benito Skinner is one of Prime's best new shows.
Prime Video
The Outlaws (2021- )
Seven strangers are assigned to the same community payback sentence in this appealing comedy thriller set in Bristol, England. The six-episode show is fun, dark and touching, offering an engaging look at its rule-breakers backgrounds and the relationships that form between them. The plot thickens when some members of the group come across a bag of cash. If you need another draw, the show is co-created by Stephen Merchant, who co-created the UK version of The Office.
Amazon Studios
Undone (2019-2022)
This unique series uses the Rotoscoping animation technique to tell the story of a young woman who, after suffering a near-fatal car accident, discovers she can manipulate time. Intriguing, right? It gets better: Bob Odenkirk plays Alma's dead father, who enlists her help in investigating his murder. Bending both time and space, Undone is surreal and beautifully existential for those looking for deep material.
Jackie Brown/Amazon Studios
The Kids in the Hall (2022)
Prime Video has resurrected The Kids in the Hall, the Emmy-nominated Canadian sketch comedy show that originally ran from 1988 to 1995. (By "resurrects," I mean the show literally exhumes members of the comedy troupe from a grave they were buried in at the end of the original show. That's just the beginning of the fun.)  Follow the comedians as they freak out over mislabeled desserts, fight over imaginary love interests and write Earth's last fax. Be warned: Some of these sketches are highly NSFW.
Amazon Studios
A League of Their Own (2022)
Prime Video's TV series A League of Their Own is inspired by the 1992 film of the same name and introduces new characters portrayed by Abbi Jacobson, D'Arcy Carden and others. In the comedy-drama's first episode, women try out for the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League in the '40s. The show explores themes of race and sexuality and offers a satisfying period setting and compelling characters.
Amazon Studios
The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel (2017-2023)
A '50s housewife who becomes a standup comic? This brilliant series from Gilmore Girls creator Amy Sherman-Palladino is filled with sparkling performances from Rachel Brosnahan and Alex Borstein, with dialogue to match. Set in a vibrant and changing New York, our delightful heroine moonlights as a comedian, while doing her duties as an upper-class Jewish American housewife. With impressive visuals, warmth and zingers, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is the full package.
Thriller
Prime Video
The Devil's Hour (2022- )
The Devil's Hour sets up an intriguing mystery: Why is a woman, Lucy, waking up at 3:33 a.m. each night, and why does her 8-year-old son, Isaac, seem oddly emotionless? Starring Jessica Raine (Call the Midwife) as Lucy, Nikesh Patel (Starstruck) as a kind detective and Peter Capaldi (Doctor Who) as a suspicious character, the Devil's Hour is a twisty series that eventually delivers satisfying answers. A bonus? A third and final season is on the way.
Niko Tavernise/Prime Video
Dead Ringers (2023)
Oscar winner Rachel Weisz plays not one, but two main characters in Dead Ringers, Prime Video's version of David Cronenberg's 1988 psychological thriller. The darkly comedic series follows identical twin doctors pursuing their goal of opening a birthing and research center. Spend some time with these unconventional sisters, you'll want to see the whole thing through.
York Tillyer/Amazon Studios
Chloe (2022)
Led by a stellar Erin Doherty, this British thriller will swallow your attention. It centers on Becky, a temp with an unusual pastime: assuming different identities to sneak into fancy art galleries and yoga classes. When a woman she follows obsessively on Instagram suddenly dies, she attempts to uncover more details, once again posing as someone else. Tear away from your timeline and check out this six-episode limited series.
Sci-fi
Prime Video
Fallout (2024- )
Prime Video's video game adaptation is an entertaining postapocalyptic adventure you shouldn't leave sitting in a vault. The series follows three characters occupying the same wasteland. One is Lucy (Ella Purnell), who wanders in search of her kidnapped father and feels the need to invoke the Golden Rule to a cruel post-human Ghoul (Walton Goggins). Meanwhile, an eager Maximus (Aaron Moten) gets his big break as a squire in the Brotherhood of Steel. It's an unpredictable series with humor and gore. Don't let long episode runtimes deter you from exploring Fallout.
Prime Video
The Second Best Hospital in the Galaxy (2024- )
A wacky, stellar adult animated comedy about exceptional alien surgeons, the Second Best Hospital in the Galaxy follows best friends Dr. Sleech and Dr. Klak (voiced by Stephanie Hsu and Keke Palmer) as they perform daily duties like treating a patient using an anxiety-eating parasite (that's just episode 1). The series' out-of-this-world voice cast also features Maya Rudolph, Natasha Lyonne and all five Culkin brothers.
Prime Video
Paper Girls (2022)
The first episode of Paper Girls, a sci-fi TV series based on popular comics by Brian K. Vaughan and Cliff Chiang, brings together four kids riding bikes on their paper delivery routes in 1988. While that may sound like a sci-fi-er you've binged already, (yep, Netflix's hit Stranger Things), Prime Video's show stands on its own. Follow along as the girls travel through time, navigate powerful adversaries and learn more about themselves. Another reason to watch? Comedian Ali Wong is also part of the cast.
Drama
Prime Video
Expats (2024)
A new miniseries starring Nicole Kidman may be enough to guide your finger to the Play button, but you may also want to know that Expats comes from Lulu Wang, the director of the critically acclaimed 2019 comedy-drama The Farewell. In the six-episode show, Kidman portrays an American woman who's living in Hong Kong and is one of three characters linked by a sudden family tragedy.
David Hindley/Prime Video
Riches (2022)
A soapy drama about a family after the death of their wealthy patriarch sits tantalizingly on Prime Video. In Riches, the will reading goes in an unexpected direction, leading Stephen Richard's two sets of children to vie for control of his business. You'll glide through the stylish first season, which includes Ted Lasso Emmy nominee Sarah Niles.
Amazon Studios
The English (2022)
Gripping Western drama series The English stars Emily Blunt and Chaske Spencer as an unlikely duo traveling across a treacherous landscape. The first episode of the miniseries presents some terrible characters and reveals a bit of what motivates both protagonists -- Blunt's aristocratic Englishwoman and Spencer's Pawnee ex-cavalry scout -- to continue in the face of danger. Gorgeous visuals and superb acting make The English worth a binge.
Alan Peebles/Prime Video
A Very British Scandal (2022)
Unfurling over three hour-long episodes, A Very British Scandal dramatizes the highly publicized, real-life divorce between the Duke and Duchess of Argyll in the 1960s. Claire Foy, of Netflix's The Crown, and WandaVision's Paul Bettany star.
Ali Goldstein/Amazon Studios
As We See It (2022)
A newer entry to Prime Video, As We See It earns a spot among its best shows. Starring three actors who identify as autistic, this sincere series follows young adults on the autism spectrum as they navigate jobs, make friends and find love. Neurotypical actors usually play autistic characters on screen, so the casting sets this one apart. It's also heartfelt, funny and poignant, with well-rounded characters you'll want to root for. I could let the show's glowing Metacritic score speak for itself -- but whatever convinces you, this needs to be your next watch.
Fantasy
Jonathan Prime/Prime Video
My Lady Jane (2024)
Lady Jane Grey, the Queen of England for just nine days in 1553, is the subject of this Prime Video series. The show doesn't stick closely to the events of her life, weaving in fantasy elements like humans who can turn into animals and imagining a world where she met a fate other than execution. Based on a book of the same name and blending comedy, action, romance and more, My Lady Jane is a wild, enjoyable ride you won't find in a history book.
Prime Video
I'm a Virgo (2023- )
Boots Riley (Sorry to Bother You) created this surreal series about Cootie (Jharrel Jerome), a 13-foot-tall Black man who leaves home for the first time at 19. The gentle giant from Oakland, California, experiences friendship, love and more milestones in this coming-of-age story, which brings humor, social commentary and undeniable originality to the small screen.
Ben Rothstein/Prime Video
The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (2022- )
Haven't watched Prime Video's buzzy, wildly expensive fantasy series yet? The Rings of Power brings incredible visuals, a sprawling cast and a sense of adventure to the streaming service. It's set thousands of years before The Lord of the Rings, and in part follows a young version of the character Galadriel, who's played by Morfydd Clark.
Amazon Studios
The Legend of Vox Machina (2022- )
Buckle up for a new animated series that centers on a group of boisterous, belching misfits called Vox Machina. Based on Dungeons & Dragons web series Critical Role (you don't have to be familiar with that to enjoy this show), The Legend of Vox Machina sees its protagonists go from being broke bar-hoppers to accepting a mission to stop evil brewing in Exandria. We're further introduced to the characters in a musical number that occurs about halfway through the first episode. That's right, I said musical number. You'll be down for every element this show throws at you. Why would anyone choose these misfits to fight for the kingdom? "Well ... they do have a bear," one royal decision-maker concedes.
Documentary
Prime Video
LuLaRich (2021)
In LulaRich, the directors of Hulu's Fyre Festival documentary explore the dark side of the multilevel marketing company LuLaRoe. The four-part documentary series interviews founders DeAnne and Mark Stidham and paints a not-so-rosy picture of the women's clothing giant, which is known for its loudly colored and patterned leggings and tops. In the doc, women who joined the company (investing a chunk of money in the process) dealt with stinky merchandise, a toxic culture and challenges in reaching financial goals. Settle in for a fascinating and well-made docuseries that spotlights the stories of former LuLaRoe retailers.
More recommendations
The Best TV Shows on NetflixThe Best TV Shows on MaxThe Best Sci-Fi TV Shows on Prime VideoThe Best Fantasy TV Shows on Prime Video
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.