Best Smart Displays of 2025: I've Touched Them All - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeSmart Home Smart Displays
Best Smart Displays of 2025: I've Touched Them All
Get all the best things out of your smart display like video, interactive controls, music and smart home management with our experts' favorites.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Article updated on May 16, 2025 at 3:00 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Smart home ecosystem
Buy the smart display that uses the same voice assistant you are already using to ensure seamless integration.
Personal use
Smart displays come in many different sizes, so be sure to get the one that best matches your primary use.
Where you plan to put it
Some smart displays can be wall mounted to free up counter or table space, others can't so the larger models will take up more room on table.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Get the most out of your smart home with smart security cameras, smart speakers and light bulbs with a smart display. The smart displays make a great hub for you to control all your devices and can even make a great entertainment station. We've been testing displays since the first Echo Show in 2017 and have continued to build this list as new ones have been released to track the best ones available for you. Our Picks
Best overall smart display Google Nest Hub (2nd gen)
Jump to details
$92 at Walmart
Jump to details
The best smart display with camera Amazon Echo Show 8 (2023)
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart display
Amazon Echo Show 15
Jump to details
$300 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart home control display Amazon Echo Hub
Jump to details
$180 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart display for the kitchen Amazon Echo Show 10 (3rd gen)
Jump to details
$250 at Target
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Smart Displays of 2025: I've Touched Them All
What is the best smart display overall?
Best smart home displays
Best overall smart display
The best smart display with camera
Best smart display
Best smart home control display
Best smart display for the kitchen
Smart display comparison
Other smart home displays we tested
Factors to consider when buying a smart display
How we test smart displays
Smart display FAQs
Recent updates
What is the best smart display overall?
Smart displays are easy ways to keep eyes on loved ones. Google NestThe Google Nest Hub 2nd-gen display ($100) combines some of the top smart features we tested in a display that's more affordable than most, a particularly ideal pick for Nest users that looks great on a computer desk, kitchen counter or (with sleep sensor features) beside a bed. It's a great centerpiece or companion display, plus it offers compatibility for both Google and Alexa platforms. It doesn't have a camera for video chatting, but many of our other picks do, including some with much larger screens. Whether you're looking to enhance your existing setup with a smart display or are just starting your smart home journey, leave behind the Google Home app -- or Alexa app -- on your phone and switch to the top smart displays. CNET's experts tested and reviewed several to help you identify the best options on the marketplace.
Best smart home displays
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best overall smart display
Google Nest Hub (2nd gen)
Pros
At $100 it's more affordable than larger displays
Quick Gestures for hands-free control
Upgraded base
Easy internet searching with Google voice assistant
Cons
Sleep Sensing will eventually cost $10 per month (currently free)
Big bezel remains
No camera means no video chat
The transition to Gemini AI will bring unknowns
Why I like it:The latest version of the Nest Hub with Google services arrived in 2021, and it's a great entry point for the category. It's the smartest and best overall, making the lower price even more appealing. Thanks to the built-in Google Assistant (which will be replaced with Google Gemini AI before long), the Nest Hub responds to all of the same voice command options as the Google Home Mini smart speaker. The Google smart display touchscreen is a little small at 7 inches, but the adaptive brightness makes pictures look particularly great. Like most smart displays, Google will customize a slideshow of family pics as your screensaver. You can also control your smart home devices, such as your smart doorbell, with an intuitively designed control panel. Unlike most of the other smart displays (and unlike its big brother, the Nest Hub Max), the Nest Hub doesn't have a camera, but that might be a bonus if you have privacy concerns and want to put it on your bedside table.The second-generation smart home hub model includes Sleep Sensing and Quick Gestures thanks to Google's Soli mini radar. The colorful fabric design on this Google Assistant smart display allows the device to blend in anywhere, although the tablet touchscreen comes in handy if you want step-by-step help through a recipe in the kitchen.Who is this for:This is for all fans of Google Nest, people who want a more affordable display and are willing to settle for a smaller device, and those who would prefer not to have a camera included for privacy.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who want video chats, who don't like Google Home or Nest devices and those who would prefer the Nest Hub Max for its larger screen.  ... Show more
Get it now
$92 at Walmart
$100 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Display size
7 inchesNumber of speakers
1x 1.7-inch speakerCamera
NoVoice assistant
Google AssistantPrice
$100
Learn more
Google Nest Hub (2nd gen) review
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
The best smart display with camera
Amazon Echo Show 8 (2023)
Pros
The 8-display has impressive detail and lighting
Alexa's response time is near-immediate
Improved display menus from older versions
Spatial audio for better sound
Cons
Alexa's privacy settings leave something to be desired
Upward firing speaker isn't as good for music as other displays
$150 is more expensive than the Nest Hub
Why I like it:We're putting the Echo Show 8 and the Nest Hub second-gen on more or less equal footing for this list. The Show 8 is around the same size, but switches the platform to Alexa and adds a camera for video chatting. Add that to Amazon Alexa's growing smarts, and we recommend both models as excellent smart displays.With the Show 8, Alexa will respond to your voice control and voice commands, plus you can use the tablet screen to play games, browse recipes, watch movies and Prime Video trailers, control your smart home and more. The 8-inch touchscreen is small enough to stay out of the way but big enough that you won't have to squint, and the speaker is quite good for nearby music. In the mornings, Amazon's sunrise alarm feature can help ease you out of your sleep with a screen that starts getting brighter 15 minutes before your scheduled wake-up time. The camera also comes with a physical shutter for privacy.Google Assistant still makes better use of the touchscreen than Amazon -- in particular, the cooking directions and smart home controls are better -- but the Echo Show 8 is close enough, and it comes with a camera for video chats. It's really Amazon's best smart display yet, and the advent of Alexa Plus could make it even better this year.Who is this for:Amazon Alexa fans, people who want every capability on a smart display, smart home control aficionados. Who shouldn’t buy it:Those worried about Alexa privacy issues, people who don't want a camera on their display, Google Nest households.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
$150 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Display size
8 inchesNumber of speakers
2 x 2-inch speakersCamera
Yes, 13-megapixel with physical shutterVoice assistant
AlexaPrice
$150
Learn more
Amazon Echo Show 8 (2023) review
Add to compare
Smart displays let Amazon, Facebook, Google show you answers to your questions
+11 More
See all photos
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Widgets display on the home screen as a panel that swipes out from the side.  Chris Monroe/CNET
Best smart display
Amazon Echo Show 15
Pros
Attractive 15-inch frame design and 1080p resolution
Physical camera shutter
Built-in Amazon Fire platform for streaming
Customizable widgets for the home screen
Cons
Widgets feels a little awkward to use
Lower quality camera and speakers compared to other Echos
Needs lots of space on a wall or counter
Why I like it:For many years, the Echo Show 10 has been Amazon's largest smart display, but in December 2021, we got the Echo Show 15. This 15.1-inch wall-mount smart display (a desk mount is also available) brings everything that you'd expect from the rest of the Echo Show lineup and allows for more screen room, better entertainment options and the flexibility to mount the screen on your wall. There's a Show 21 now, too, but in our opinion, the 15 hits a sweet spot for an extra-large smart display.Though people could access many of the best streaming services, like Prime Video and Netflix, on the Show 15 from the start, in September 2022, Amazon brought the full Fire TV interface to the smart display, making it an even better multimedia device. However, due to the device's thinness and rear-firing speakers, audio is a bit of a letdown on the Echo Show 15. But you can group speakers together to improve the audio if you have more than one Echo device.Adding another way to take advantage of the extra-large screen real estate, Amazon first introduced Widgets with the Echo Show 15. This feature lets you put small customizable interactive blocks of the things you want to see right on the home screen. I keep my shopping list, a calendar with upcoming events, my favorite smart devices and a weather widget on my device. This makes quickly glancing at information really easy, as it is all up front for me.Who is this for:People who want an extra smart TV touchscreen, fans of Amazon's video and streaming, and those looking for a master entertainment/smart home device combo. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who have no interest in Amazon streaming, people with no space for a wall mount or large desk mount, buyers who would rather just get a smart TV.  ... Show more
Get it now
$300 at Amazon
$300 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Display size
15.1 inchesNumber of speakers
2x 1.6-inch speakersCamera
Yes, 5-megapixel with physical shutterVoice assistant
AlexaPrice
$300
Add to compare
Chris Wedel/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Wedel/CNET
Best smart home control display
Amazon Echo Hub
Pros
Easy to set up
Proximity sensors help with easy hub lighting
Customizable home screen
Intuitive interface
Can be used as an Alexa device
Cons
Slow response time
Would like a dark mode
Camera previews only work with Ring devices
A home hub without entertainment options is a tough sell outside the Alexa ecosystem
Why I like it:The Amazon Echo Hub is a more dedicated type of smart display, using its speakers and touchscreen as an always-present control center for your wall. Remember those home security touchscreen displays you'd mount at an entryway to arm/disarm the system? It's a lot like that, but with a greatly expanded role. The 8-inch display is designed to be a central control point for managing your favorite Alexa smart devices (wall and desk mounting are options). The easy-to-navigate dashboard allows you to control individual devices or an entire room. This device has been great in my home, where my wife and children are less familiar with everything that is set up in our home. This way, there's a simple way to see what smart devices are available.In addition to being a smart home management device, it also functions as an Alexa speaker, allowing you to use voice commands to do everything else you'd expect from a typical smart speaker. The Echo Hub can even be a digital photo frame to show all your favorite memories. Thanks to sensors on the device's front, as you approach it, the screen will show you smart home devices and be ready to help you out.However, there's a trade-off: You simply won't be using this hub for entertainment purposes like you would other smart displays.Who is this for:People who have a lot of compatible smart home devices and want a central display to control them. Who shouldn’t buy it:People intending to use a smart display for music, movies, videos or other entertainment purposes.  ... Show more
Get it now
$180 at Amazon
$180 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Display size
8 inchesNumber of speakers
TwoCamera
NoVoice assistant
AlexaPrice
$180
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best smart display for the kitchen
Amazon Echo Show 10 (3rd gen)
Pros
10-inch display better for viewing
360-degree speaker is great for sound
13-megapixel, wide-angle camera
Motorized base is silent
Physical shutters and options to turn off motion
Cons
Motion can be too twitchy and sometimes get in the way
At $250, it's Amazon's most expensive display
Note: While you can still find the Echo Show 10 in stores, it appears Amazon has discontinued it, possibly in preparation for a new Echo Show release. Why I like it:If you want a 10-inch touchscreen powered by Alexa, the third-generation Amazon Echo Show 10 is the latest and greatest in smart display technology. With a motorized base, the Echo Show 10 can follow you around the room during video calls or while you're watching video content on the device -- which gets a little awkward when it bumps into things, but is really nice for large spaces and frequent movement, like working in the kitchen. The 10.1-inch HD display looks good, and the device comes with a 13-megapixel front-facing camera, plus a physical shutter for privacy. I found it's particularly easy to glance at across the room if you've found that smaller displays just aren't big enough. Like other Shows, you can view and control compatible security cameras (which is almost all of them) in the Alexa app. Group video calling is supported for up to seven people, and Drop In lets you make a call directly to your display from anywhere with the Alexa app. Occupancy and vacancy-based routines can trigger other smart home devices when the Echo Show 10 senses someone entering or leaving the room. We think most people will still get by just fine with the Echo Show 8 for considerably less money, but if you're after Amazon's boldest smart display yet with the impressive sound to go with it, this is the way to go. That room-filling sound comes from two 1-inch tweeters and a 3-inch woofer to ensure that the audio from the Echo Show 10 is just as elevated as the display itself, making it the best pick if you play lots of music. Who is this for:Alexa fans who play lots of music in the home, prefer a bigger screen they can use from across the room, or do lots of video chatting. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who want to save with a smaller display, people who dislike a rotating model, and those who don't use a smart display for music.  ... Show more
Get it now
$250 at Target
$286 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Display size
10.1-inchNumber of speakers
2x 1-inch tweeters and a 3-inch wooferCamera
Yes, 13-megapixel with physical shutterVoice assistant
AlexaPrice
$250
Learn more
Amazon Echo Show 10 (3rd gen) review
Add to compareSmart display comparison
Google Nest Hub (2nd gen)Amazon Echo Show 8 (3rd gen)Amazon Echo Show 10 (3rd gen)Amazon Echo Show 15Amazon Echo Hub Regular Price $100 (£90, AU$149)$150 (£119, ~AU$232)$250 (£135, AU$259)$300 (£240, AU$399) $180 (£170, AU$329)Screen Size 7-inch (177.8 mm)8-inch (203.2 mm)10.1-inch (256.5 mm)15.1-inch (383.5 mm)8-inch (203.2 mm)Dimensions (WxHxD) 7.00 x 4.70 x 2.70 inches (177.4 x 120.4 x 69.5 mm)7.9 x 5.5 x 4.2 inches (200.7 x 139.0 x 106.0 mm)9.9 x 9.0 x 6.7 inches (251.46 x 228.60 x 170.18 mm)15.8 x 9.9 x 1.4 inches (402 mm x 252 mm x 35 mm)7.9 x 5.4 x 0.6 inches (202 mm x 137mm x 15mm)"Wireless Connectivity Wi-Fi (802.11b/g/n/ac, 2.4GHz and 5GHz), Bluetooth 5.0Wi-Fi (802.11b/g/n/ac, 2.4GHz and 5GHz), BluetoothWi-Fi (802.11b/g/n/ac, 2.4GHz and 5GHz), BluetoothWi-Fi (802.11b/g/n/ac, 2.4GHz and 5GHz), BluetoothWi-Fi (802.11b/g/n/ac, 2.4GHz and 5GHz), BluetoothVoice Assistant Google AssistantAlexaAlexaAlexaAlexaCalling and Messaging Direct dial (US only), audio calls with Google DuoAlexa Messaging, Skype, direct dial (US and Mexico)Direct dial, Group calling with Alexa, Zoom, SkypeDirect dial, Group calling with Alexa, Zoom, SkypeGroup calling with AlexaSmart kitchen features Step-by-step recipe assistance with YouTube tutorial videosFood Network GO; Step-by-step recipe assistance; Amazon Meal Kits integrationFood Network Kitchen; Step-by-step recipe assistance; Amazon Meal Kits integrationFood Network Kitchen; Step-by-step recipe assistance; Amazon Meal Kits integrationFood Network Kitchen; Step-by-step recipe assistance; Amazon Meal Kits integrationOn-screen smart home controls YesYesYesYesYesBuilt-in Camera NoYes (13MP)Yes (13MP)Yes (5MP)NoPrivacy Shutter n/aYesYesYesn/aMicrophones 3-mic array2-mic array2-mic array2-mic array3-mic arraySpeakers Full-range speaker with 1.7-inch (43.5 mm) driver2x full range 2-inch 10W speakers2x 1-inch tweeters, 3-inch woofer2x full range 1.6-inchDual speakersStreaming Music Services iHeartRadio, Pandora, Spotify, YouTube Music, Apple MusicAmazon Music, iHeartRadio, Pandora, Spotify, TuneIn, Apple MusicAmazon Music, iHeartRadio, Pandora, Spotify, TuneIn, Apple MusicAmazon Music, iHeartRadio, Pandora, Spotify, TuneIn, Apple MusicAmazon Music, iHeartRadio, Pandora, Spotify, TuneIn, Apple MusicStreaming Video Services YouTube, YouTube TV, Google Play Movies, CBS All Access, HBO Now, Hulu, Disney+, NetflixAmazon Prime Video, NBC, Vivo, Hulu, NetflixAmazon Prime Video, NBC, Vivo, Hulu, NetflixAmazon Prime Video, NBC, Vivo, Hulu, NetflixAmazon Prime Video, NBC, Vivo, Hulu, NetflixCompatible smart home cameras D-Link, EZVIZ, Nest Cam, Netgear Arlo, Skybell Video Doorbell, Smartcam, Swann, TP-Link Kasa Cam, VivitarAmazon Cloud Cam, Amcrest, August Doorbell Cam, Blink, Canary, D-Link, EZVIZ, Logitech Circle, meShare, Nest Cam, Netgear Arlo, Ring Video Doorbell, Toucan, TP-Link Kasa Cam, Wyze Cam, ZmodoAmazon Cloud Cam, Amcrest, August Doorbell Cam, Blink, Canary, D-Link, EZVIZ, Logitech Circle, meShare, Nest Cam, Netgear Arlo, Ring Video Doorbell, Toucan, TP-Link Kasa Cam, Wyze Cam, ZmodoAmazon Cloud Cam, Amcrest, August Doorbell Cam, Blink, Canary, D-Link, EZVIZ, Logitech Circle, meShare, Nest Cam, Netgear Arlo, Ring Video Doorbell, Toucan, TP-Link Kasa Cam, Wyze Cam, ZmodoAmazon Cloud Cam, Amcrest, August Doorbell Cam, Blink, Canary, D-Link, EZVIZ, Logitech Circle, meShare, Nest Cam, Netgear Arlo, Ring Video Doorbell, Toucan, TP-Link Kasa Cam, Wyze Cam, ZmodoOther notable features Ambient EQ automatic adaptive screen brightness; Digital picture frame via Google Photos with Live Albums; Live TV with YouTube TV; Sleep Sensing and Quick Gestures; Digital Wellbeing mode for parental restrictions and downtime hoursSunrise alarms; Customizable clock faces; Customizable alarm tones; YouTube access via Silk or Firefox browsersZigbee hub; Adaptive color and brightness; 360 rotating screen with motion tracking; YouTube via Silk or Firefox browsers; Sunrise alarms; Customizable alarms; Customizable motion settingsVisual ID, Wall mountable, FireTV built-in, Energy dashboard, Low-power mode, WidgetsZigbee hub, Advanced smart home controls, Wall mountableColor options Charcoal, Mist, Chalk, SandCharcoal, SandstoneCharcoal, Glacier WhiteWhite and blackWhite
Other smart home displays we tested
Smart displays aren't great for full recipe walkthroughs, but they work really well for small side recipes and cooking checks. Blue ApronGoogle Nest Hub Max: The Google Nest Hub Max is an impressive combination of hardware and software, but it comes with privacy concerns. For most people, we think the original, camera-free Nest Hub is a lot closer to the smart display sweet spot.Amazon Echo Show 5: The Echo Show 5 is the cheapest of Amazon's displays, and it features most of the perks of the Show 8 with a lower resolution and smaller screen. While it features a tap-to-snooze alarm feature that makes it perfect for a bedside alarm, its sound quality isn't comparable to its bigger siblings. Amazon Echo Show (second-gen): This is a good premium counterpart to the attractive $40 entry point of the Echo Show 5, although it's a little tricky to find in stock at the moment. The second-gen Show has great sound quality and a 10-inch screen but the touchscreen just isn't as useful as similar models with Google Assistant. Lenovo Smart Display 10: Lenovo's smart display looks elegant and features the same smarts as the Nest Hub, with 10-, 8- and 7-inch screens. The 10-inch Lenovo smart display has a bamboo back that's particularly well-suited for the kitchen.Lenovo Smart Clock: This smart alarm trims out a lot of the functionality of smart displays with no camera or video ability. It's cute and tailored for your nightstand, but it's more of an upgraded alarm clock than a full smart display.
Factors to consider when buying a smart display
A smart display lets you keep up with the game while working on your hobbies. AmazonPricesSmart displays are naturally more expensive than smart speakers, but they still come at a variety of prices. Smaller displayers and speaker systems typically cost around $100. Larger, better versions are around $150. Big displays with very good sound tend to land around $200 to $250. And gigantic models like certain Echo Shows can go even higher. Find the speaker that works within your budget. Screen sizeDisplays on these devices typically range from around 7 inches to 10 inches, plus Echo Shows that go to 15 inches and beyond for more TV-like displays, often mounted on walls. The 6- to 7-inch displays we like best are close at hand, like at a desk or bedside. Walk a few steps away, and you can no longer see most of the details on them. The 10-inch style models like the Echo Show 10 and Nest Hub Max are better in larger rooms -- we can walk several steps away and still get enough detail to watch videos, etc. Cameras and privacyCameras allow for video chats. If you don't video chat with a smart display, you don't need to worry about it, although you may want to make sure the camera has a physical shutter. If you do want to video chat, look for models that have reliable cameras and the right privacy features for use (that physical shutter is again an important addition). Voice assistants and smart home compatibilityWe have options on this list that offer both Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa as the voice assistant available to help with questions and smart home controls. It is important to pick the smart display that best matches what you already use. If you have an Echo device already in your home, then going with an Echo Show will seamlessly integrate into your home. But if you have a Google Home device, then you'll want a Google Assistant display. We've found Google is a bit better at searches and general questions (imagine that) while Alexa is better at quick commands, smart home controls and parsing home-related information. Siri, if Apple ever produces a smart display, is great at contextual info and providing helpful details like when asking about the weather, but doesn't read answers off the internet as well.
Smart displays can do things your phone or speaker can't: Here are our favorite options. Google NestHow and where you'll use itIf you plan to use the smart display primarily for controlling your smart home, and you use Alexa, then you'll likely want to go for the Echo Hub. But if you want more of an all-around device that will work great for watching videos, then perhaps a Google Hub Max, Echo Show 10, or Echo Show 15 would best suit your needs. Likewise, think about where you are going to use the display. A bedroom smart display that functions as an alarm clock and morning news report device doesn't need to be very large, but should have excellent brightness and light settings. A device in the kitchen may benefit from a larger screen so you can see it more clearly while working. A display on a counter that plays a lot of music and controls a big smart home should have great speakers and mics.The amount of space you have on your table or counterYou'll want to consider where you'd like to place this smart display. While something like the Echo Show 8 (2023) or Google Nest Hub (2nd gen) don't need much room, the Echo Show 10 does. But if you go with the Echo Hub or Echo Show 15, you can mount those on the wall with the included hardware to free up more space on your table or counter. How we test smart displays
An Echo Show shows a camera live view of backyard with illustrated Alexa voice command. AmazonWe set up smart displays, get them connected to Wi-Fi, and start experimenting with features ASAP. Most smart displays are easy to get going, taking around 15 minutes to set up from plug in -- especially if you already have an Alexa or Google Home account. After that, here's what we dive into. Display and camera testingIs the display sharp with a good color gradient for its size? How do videos and YouTube clips look when you play them? What details can you see across the room? How visible are timers and reminders? This is also a time to study latency when searching the internet (most smart displays take a few seconds compared to computers, but if they are especially painful that's a red flag for us). We also look at brightness adjustments and ambient brightness changes, which is important when watching in particularly dark rooms or in bright daylight. While video calls often depend on internet connections for quality, we also take a minute to test the video chat features with a call to see how the audio and video perform, how features like person tracking perform, and if there are any delays or difficulties in making calls. Audio testingWe spin up some tunes from a connected music service and/or Bluetooth and see how the audio performs. Is this a "big room, party time" sort of performance, or a "small desk, computer, bedside" kind of sound? Is it thin-sounding? Is there appreciable bass, like the bass upgrades Google has given Nest displays? Audio is used just as frequently, if not more so, than the display so audio performance is very important. Voice assistants and smart home integrationVoice assistants should also be snappy, so we expect quick responses when we test smart displays, even if we're talking from across the room. This is also the perfect time for us to link up a smart device and see how it can be controlled. We always try to use a home security camera for this part if possible, because it lets us bring up a live view and test two-way audio commands, among other compatibility testing.
Smart display FAQs
What is the point of a smart display?
For smart home users, the smart display will function as a sort of visual dashboard, showing you all your connected devices and their statuses. You can view cameras and doorbells on your smart display screen, as well as make video calls, watch online content, view recipes and ask general knowledge questions. Other fun features include books, games, puzzles and holiday easter eggs. Smart displays can also double as digital photo frames and helpful clocks and calendars.
Show more
What is the difference between a tablet and a smart display?
Admittedly, a smart display doesn't do as much as your Android tablet or iPad. You won't be able to download any apps or view every single streaming platform. It isn't portable, either. Smart displays are focused on being hubs or command centers for your smart home. It's a device you'll plant on one shelf or countertop and likely leave there for life.
Show more
Should I buy a smart display?
Well, that depends. If you're interested in smart home tech, a smart display is a helpful way to view everything you're setting up and controlling within your home. If you like making video calls, smart displays are a good way to do so without sacrificing your phone or laptop battery. If a smart home isn't really your cup of tea or if you're hesitant to put more cameras, microphones and voice assistants in your home (we wouldn't blame you), then a tablet or small laptop will meet your needs.
Show more
Recent updates
Spring 2025: We differentiated our top picks more based on our own experiences with using these displays in our homes. Also, we are considering adding another Nest display to the list in future updates. The Nest Hub Max is a solid option with good sound and a larger screen we really like. If it gets a second generation like the Nest Hub did, expect to see it added to our list.
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.