Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older models | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Here's how it compares to older models
From hypertension monitoring to a daily sleep scores, here's how the new Apple Watch Series 11 compares to previous models.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 10, 2025 at 4:05 a.m. PT
Screenshot: Apple, Design: Maria Diaz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I'm an Apple loyalist, but I don't upgrade my devices every year. Longevity is one of my favorite things about Apple hardware; I can be reassured that my investments will last me for years. When a shiny new product rolls around, I don't feel the pull to swap out the one I have at home that still works perfectly. This is why I still rock my Apple Watch Series 7 after four years, and why I have yet to upgrade my iPhone 14 Pro Max. Also: Apple Event live updates 2025: iPhone 17, AirPods 3, Apple Watch Series 11, and more newsEvery time a new Apple Watch drops, I weigh the pros and cons of upgrading before making a decision. Most of the time, the upgrade doesn't seem worth it, but there are a lot of new Apple Watch Series 11 features this year that make it a compelling buy. Here's how the new Apple Watch 11 compares to the most popular older Apple Watch models.Apple Watch Series 11 vs. Series 10
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETMost recent Apple Watch models are visually very similar, and the Series 10 and the new Series 11 are no exceptions. The latest Apple Watch 11 follows the previous model's trend of being the thinnest Apple Watch and carries all of the Series 10's features and then some, including extending the Series 10's 18-hour battery life to up to 24 hours. The Apple Watch Series 11 is twice as scratch-resistant as the Series 10, supports 5G cellular networks, and features the biggest update yet: blood pressure monitoring to alert you of potential hypertension indicators. Apple is also adding a sleep score to give you better insights into your sleep quality, taking into account sleep duration, interruptions, sleep cycles, and bedtime.  Also: How to preorder Apple's latest devices, including the iPhone 17 seriesEven with all the new Series 11 features, you really can't go wrong sticking to the Apple Watch 10. The truth is that many users wouldn't justify upgrading from the Series 10 to the 11, simply because it's an iterative upgrade -- there aren't any major operational or design changes. Many of the most eye-catching features, like hypertension notifications and sleep score, will be available in older models, including the Series 10. It's worth noting that hypertension notifications are still under FDA review. Apple expects this to be cleared this month, after which it will make it available on Apple Watch 9 and newer, as well as Apple Watch Ultra 2 and newer. The Apple Watch 10 supports irregular rhythm notifications, the ECG app, blood oxygen monitoring, sleep apnea monitoring, fall detection, sleep tracking, and the Vitals app.  Apple Watch Series 11 vs. Series 9
Jason Hiner/ZDNETSimilar to the Apple Watch 10, the Series 9 is still a worthy alternative to the latest model. The Series 9 is only a couple of years old, and Apple made a lot of the newest features available for it via software updates. Now that oxygen monitoring is available again, the Apple Watch 9 supports all of the features from its predecessor, plus many of the ones introduced with the Series 10, like sleep apnea notifications, fall and crash detection, and wrist temperature sensing. The Series 9 is also the first Apple Watch to introduce the second-generation ultra-wideband chip, a more energy-efficient chip that supports precision finding.Also: Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not aloneLike the Series 10, the older Series 9 will support hypertenstion notifications once it's cleared by the FDA, and will also support the sleep score. The Series 9 is visually similar to the 7 and 8, but it has twice the peak brightness of the older models. Unfortunately, Apple Watch models before the Series 10 have a slightly smaller active screen area because their displays are about 9% smaller. Apple Watch Series 11 vs. Series 8
Jason Hiner/ZDNETIf you have an Apple Watch Series 8 or older, an upgrade to the new Apple Watch 11 may be justifiable. While the Apple Watch hasn't ever been subject to major redesign changes, noteworthy features have come to the wearable to make the Series 11 a good candidate for an upgrade. Also: I've worn my Apple Watch Ultra for 2 years - and I can't believe the shape it's inThe Apple Watch 8 supports heart rate monitoring, ECG, blood oxygen tracking, crash detection, and an 18-hour battery life. It supports WatchOS 26 but doesn't have the built-in capabilities to capitalize on some of the new operating system's best features, like the Vitals app, hypertension notifications, and sleep apnea monitoring. While Series 6 and newer Apple Watches will support Apple's sleep score, hypertension notifications requires an Apple Watch 9 or later, so the Series 8 won't support it. Apple Watch Series 11 vs. Series 7
Maria Diaz/ZDNETAs a current Apple Watch Series 7 user, I suspect the Apple Watch 11 will be the first one in four years that may actually convince me to upgrade. Before this year, the mere loss of blood oxygen monitoring was enough to put me off upgrading altogether, since a Series 9 or 10 meant losing the feature. Yet this feature has already been reinstated, and many more health features make the switch more compelling.Also: Apple just launched new watches, but these are our favorite deals on existing Apple Watch modelsMy Apple Watch 7 works just as it did the first day I set it up, albeit with a few scuffs and scratches. I've worn it daily since its launch with little deterioration to its battery life. It also still supports WatchOS 26, Apple's latest smartwatch operating system.But as someone who enjoys wearables' health monitoring features, I look forward to testing the new Apple Watch's hypertension alerts, Workout Buddy, Vitals app, sleep apnea notifications, and temperature sensing on a newer model that supports them.Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice now
I compared the two best smartwatches on the market - here's how Apple Watch Series 11 wins
Should you upgrade to an iPhone 17 Pro from last year's model? I am - here's why
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use