Best Tower Fans for 2025: These Fans Helped Cool Down Rooms Fast - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeKitchen & Household Small Appliances
Best Tower Fans for 2025: These Fans Helped Cool Down Rooms Fast
These slim, rotating fans offer quick relief from the summer heat. Here are the best-performing tower fan models on the marketplace.
Our Experts
Written by
Ry Crist
Written by
Chris Wedel
Article updated on July 17, 2025 at 9:00 AM PDT
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking. Expertise Smart home technology | Wireless connectivity Credentials 10 years product testing experience with the CNET Home team
See full bio
Chris Wedel Home Tech Editor Chris Wedel is a fan of all things tech and gadgets. Living in rural Kansas with his wife and two young boys makes finding ways to stay online tricky — not to mention making my homestead smarter. However, by utilizing his years of experience in the tech and mobile communications industries, success is assured. When not conquering the outdoors and testing new gadgets, Chris enjoys cruising a gravel road in his UTV with some good tunes, camping, and hanging out with his family. Expertise Smart home devices, outdoors gadgets, smartphones, wearables, kid's tech, and some dabbling in 3D printing Credentials Covered the mobile and smart home tech space for the past five years for multiple large publications.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
It's a scorcher this summer, with heat waves that are sure to have you and your family seeking refuge in front of the fan and other cooling tech. However, some desk or ceiling fans may not be enough for certain rooms, which is why you should consider a tower fan. These tall fans conserve desk space and can cool an entire room from the corner, all while providing valuable smart features. Our Picks
Best overall tower fan Honeywell QuietSet HYF290B Whole Room Tower Fan
Jump to details
$48 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best tower fan upgrade Dyson Pure Cool TP07 Air Purifying Tower Fan
Jump to details
$440 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget tower fan TaoTronics TT-F001 Oscillating Tower Fan
Jump to details
$46 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best overall value tower fan Levoit 'Classic' Tower Fan
Jump to details
$56 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best compact tower fan Better Homes & Gardens 3-Speed Tower Fan
Jump to details
$55 at Walmart
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Tower Fans for 2025: These Fans Helped Cool Down Rooms Fast
What is the best tower fan?
Best tower fans
Best overall tower fan
Best tower fan upgrade
Best budget tower fan
Best overall value tower fan
Best compact tower fan
Tower fans compared
How we tested tower fans and what we were looking for
Other fans we tested
Factors to consider when buying a tower fan
What if I want to use a smart plug?
What we updated
FAQs
Our CNET experts have worked tirelessly to test numerous options and their features. Here are the tower fans that came out on top.What is the best tower fan?
Honeywell/CNETI ultimately chose the Honeywell QuietSet tower fan, a feature-rich model that was indeed the quietest fan I tested. It also combines onboard controls with a far-reaching remote to shift among eight speed levels, a timer, oscillation and dimming options. But I also made choices for a compact tower fan, a model that can help you save a bit more money and other choices for different users. Take a look at the whole list before making a final call.
Best tower fans
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
Best overall tower fan
Honeywell QuietSet HYF290B Whole Room Tower Fan
Pros
Very quiet
Fairly affordable around $70
8 total fan speeds for lots of choices
Customization for light dimness and other settings
Cons
One year warranty is a bit short
No smart home integration
Why I like it:Tower fans generate noise, which might be a problem if you're planning on using one while you sleep or binge-watch your favorite TV shows. Fortunately, the quietest fan I tested, the Honeywell QuietSet, also proved to be a well-rounded option for everyone.Along with holding its highest-speed setting to a best-in-class 41 decibels (measured at a distance of 30 inches), the QuietSet was also one of the most energy-efficient fans I tested, drawing just 36 watts at full blast. Speaking of settings, the QuietSet offers eight speeds, more than nearly any fan I tested. The slim, rocket-shaped design is sturdy and relatively compact, the batteries-included remote control docks neatly in the back when not in use and the upward-angled controls on top are easy on the eyes. You can customize the brightness of those LED lights on top too.Who is this for:Buyers who want a very quiet fan that also offers a whole lot of speed options.Who shouldn’t buy it:People looking for a more compact tower fan, buyers who really want to find a fan for less than $50.  ... Show more
Get it now
$48 at Amazon
$48 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Speeds
8Decibels
41Additional sensors
N/A
Add to compare
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
Best tower fan upgrade
Dyson Pure Cool TP07 Air Purifying Tower Fan
Pros
10 speed options
Energy-efficient
Smart home support
Air quality and other additional sensors
Very comfortable air flow
Cons
Amazingly expensive
Highest settings aren't very quiet
Why I like it:In ultrahigh-end tower fans, Dyson is awfully tough to beat. Its latest, the Dyson TP07, is a behemoth with king-size activated carbon and glass HEPA air filters hugging the base intake. That allows it to purify the air it puts out, removing things like dust and allergens from the air you breathe. Dyson claims it can catch particles as small as 0.3 microns wide. You don't have to spend that much on every air purifier but if you want a combo option this is the elite choice.The Dyson also boasts 10-speed settings ranging from an ultraquiet 28 decibels up to a 48-decibel blast of concentrated air. It was the most comfortable tower fan I tested, too, with a cool, steady stream of air that feels like a much less forceful version of one of Dyson's bathroom hand dryers. An LCD screen on the front of the device tracks air quality in real time but you can also set it to display things like the ambient room temperature or the relative humidity. You can also customize the oscillation angle between 45-, 90-, 180- and 350-degree settings, which is a nice, unique touch. The sleek remote control docks magnetically on top of the fan when you aren't using it.On top of all of that, the TP07 features app-enabled smarts. I'll admit I didn't spend too much time testing all of the features but the app offers a detailed look at the air quality in your home and it lets you create custom cooling schedules too. You can also use it to customize the fan's autopilot mode to your liking. The TP07 also supports voice control via Alexa or Siri.The one big downside? Dyson is infamously expensive and to get the very best you'll have to pay more than $600. That's too much for many people unless you're looking into a serious upgrade.Who is this for:Buyers without budget limitations who want a tower fan that does everything and does it well. Who shouldn’t buy it:Anyone who wants to keep the fan cost within reasonable levels.  ... Show more
Get it now
$440 at Amazon
$650 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Speeds
10Decibels
48Additional sensors
Air quality, smart home support
Learn more
Dyson Pure Cool TP07 Air Purifying Tower Fan review
Add to compare
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
Best budget tower fan
TaoTronics TT-F001 Oscillating Tower Fan
Pros
Affordable at about $50
Energy-efficient
Ambient temperature reading proved very accurate
Autopilot mode
Easy to clean
Cons
Dated design
Noisy at high levels
Why I like it:At about $50, the TaoTronics TT-F001 isn't an inexpensive tower fan but it makes up for it with a great mix of features and packs plenty of cooling power into a compact, 35-inch build. Among the fans I tested, its 60-watt power draw was second only to the Dyson but its highest-speed setting was the second noisiest, ringing in at 48 decibels. Neither factor is a deal-breaker, particularly if you need a smaller tower fan but don't want to sacrifice cooling power.As for the features, the TT-F001 includes an ambient temperature reading on the admittedly dated-looking display. Those readings proved to be completely accurate when I used some of the thermocouples left over from my waffle maker tests to double-check them. There's also an autopilot mode for easier operation. I appreciated the artificial breeze modes and the removable cover in the back, which makes the fan easier to clean.Who is this for:Buyers who want a very competent tower fan on a budget.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who are sensitive to fan noise and dated designs.  ... Show more
Get it now
$46 at Walmart
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best overall value tower fan
Levoit 'Classic' Tower Fan
Pros
Strong speed settings for larger areas
Built-in temperature sensor for automation
Overall a great performance for the value.
Cons
No app controls
Gets a bit noisy at higher levels
Why I like it:CNET has reviewed other Levoit products positively, including humidifiers and air purifiers (I used a Levoit air purifier myself for some time), so it's no surprise that one of their fans would end up on our lists. The brand excels at combining affordability with performance, even if it doesn't tend to offer many extra features. This 36-inch Classic mode goes down to 28 decibels at the lowest of its five speeds to help when sleeping, but at higher levels, it can reach a stronger 25-feet-per-second wind speed to tackle large spaces (the 90-degree oscillation helps too). Built-in sensors help the fan automatically adjust airflow based on ambient temperatures, making it a great set-it-and-forget-it option.Who is this for:Buyers who want a fan for larger rooms, so they don't have to worry about micromanaging. Who shouldn’t buy it:People looking for extra smart features, buyers who want a more compact, quieter fan.  ... Show more
Get it now
$56 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Speeds
5Decibels
28 (lowest setting)Additional sensors
Temperature
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best compact tower fan
Better Homes & Gardens 3-Speed Tower Fan
Pros
Clever internal oscillation design
Fairly affordable at $60
Comfortable "wind" modes
Compact at 40 inches
Cons
Plasticky design
Only 3 fan speeds
Why I like it:Usually available at Walmart for about $60, this Better Homes and Gardens-branded tower fan is one of the most compact on our list at 40 inches, good for those who want a smaller, three-speed fan to fit in tiny spaces. It also offers a natural wind mode and a gentler "sleep wind" mode for extra comfort.The sturdy, understated design features a grill that oscillates within a fixed base, making it less conspicuous than a tower fan that turns entirely from side to side. I found it plenty powerful enough to cool off a medium-to-large room on a hot day.I'd like it better if the warranty ran longer than a single year and if the build weren't quite so plasticky but those trade-offs are more than fair at this price. If you're looking for a capable tower fan that feels more expensive than it actually is, this one fits the bill better than anything else I've tested.Who is this for:Buyers who want an affordable, compact fan to fit in smaller spaces.Who shouldn’t buy it:People looking for bigger, more powerful cooling over a larger space.  ... Show more
Get it now
$55 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Speeds
3Decibels
35 - 46Additional sensors
N/A
Add to compareTower fans compared
Tower FansSizeWeightSpeeds and settingsAmbient temperature display with auto modeNoise rangeEnergy drawShutoff timerRemoteRemote batteries included?Smart functionalityWarrantyPrice Better Homes & Gardens 5-Speed 41 in.10 lbs.Low, Medium High, Natural Wind, SleepNo35 - 46 db48W1-8 hoursYes, magneticYesNone1 year$56TaoTronics TT-F001 Oscillating 35 in.
6.3 lbs.Low, Medium, High, Natural Wind, SleepYes38 - 48 db60W1-12 hoursYes, dockableYesNone1 year$51Honeywell QuietSet HYF290B Whole Room 40 in.
9.2 lbs.Sleep, Whisper, Calm, White Noise, Relax, Refresh, Cool, Power CoolNo26 - 41 db36W1, 2, 4, 8 hoursYes, dockableNoNone1 year$68Dyson Pure Cool TP04 Air Purifying 41 in.
10.9 lbs.1-10Yes28 - 48 db180WTimed shutoff available in app only, 1-9 hoursYes, magneticYesWi-Fi, app controls, voice compatibility with Siri and Alexa2 years$450
How we tested tower fans and what we were looking for
This close-up view of the Dreo MC706 fan and heater combo shows the heating element in the unit. Jon Reed/CNETTower fans are a little tricky to test, especially when you're working from home without access to a lab environment. Unlike air conditioners, they don't generate their own cold air. Instead, they take whatever air is nearby and recirculate air throughout the room. That breeze-like effect feels great on a hot, stuffy day, but it isn't something you can easily track with a temperature probe. We're working on getting our wind tunnel or some other means of effectively quantifying the amount of airflow each fan can move back up and running. For now, we started by focusing on each fan's design and features. We also ran noise tests in the quietest part of my home to get a good sense of which fan runs the noisiest. Most tower fans come with a remote control, and most of those remotes are cheap and bulky, but some tower fans do a better job than others in providing a way of docking those remotes when they aren't in use. The wide variety of designs gave me a lot to think about. Tower fans are large and conspicuous enough that it's worth it to look for one that isn't too ugly or bulky. On the feature front, we looked closely at how much control each fan offered over how it puts out air. Just about every tower fan offers a low, medium and high setting, but some go further with a greater number of fan speed settings in between those basics for more granular control over the force of the breeze. Others offer artificial wind modes that flutter the breeze for a more natural effect. Some include ambient temperature readings on the display or autopilot modes that only kick in when the temperature hits a certain threshold. Wherever we found features like that, we tested them and took them into account.
Other fans we tested
This Lasko fan is beautiful and smart, but Bluetooth isn't for everyone.
Ry Crist/CNETLasko Wind Curve T42905 Oscillating Tower Fan: I loved the sleek silhouette and wood grain accents of this Lasko tower fan. It was also the third-quietest fan I tested, measuring just a few decibels noisier than the Honeywell. It features Bluetooth, which lets you control the oscillating fan via an app on your phone. The problem is that the app is all you get as far as remote controls are concerned. That isn't ideal for a shared space, as the fan can only connect with one device at a time. In other words, if someone else pairs with the fan, your connection gets cut. There are no voice assistant options, either. But if you're looking for a bit of app control and don't want anyone else touching your fan, it's still a strong option.
The Vornado has a fun design but is a little too expensive for what it can do.
Ry Crist/CNETVornado V-Flow Air Circulator Tower Fan: The Vornado V-Flow tower fan features a neat-looking build that twists the fan's grille around the cylindrical base, but that also means it doesn't oscillate -- and it tested incredibly noisy. Add in problems with remote malfunctions, and I can't recommend this tower, especially when the standard price is about $100. AmazonBasics Oscillating 3-Speed Tower Fan: Amazon continues to sell a growing variety of products under its AmazonBasics brand, and these days that includes a tower fan. As the name suggests, it isn't anything too fancy. The remote batteries don't come included, but you at least get a couple of natural wind settings on top of the typical low, medium and high speed settings. However, I had a disappointing experience with this fan. The remote stopped working shortly after I started testing, and the fan detached from its flimsy base after a few moves between rooms. Despite its 35-watt power draw being the lowest of all the fans I tested, the airflow was weak, even at the highest setting. At $60, this tower fan isn’t worth the price. Factors to consider when buying a tower fan
Dyson is one of the few brands to offer HEPA filters in a tower fan.
Ry Crist/CNETNoise levelsI was careful to measure the decibels of the fans I tested, as it's important to get a good idea of how noisy they are, especially at the highest settings. You don't want a fan that makes it difficult to concentrate or fall asleep, so decibels well below 50 (and below 30 for quieter settings) are very important. Speed levels and modesA good tower fan should have several speed options for how powerful you want those cooling currents -- some, like Dyson, offer as many as 10. And many models will include additional modes as well, like options designed to mimic a natural breeze or extra quiet modes for sleeping. Reach and oscillationAll good tower fans should have the ability to oscillate, or turn back and forth to reach a larger area. That's very important for cooling down large spaces, but less important if you just want a fan near your desk or bed. Sensors and automationTower fans don't usually need sensors to function, but they can add a lot of usability. Temperature sensors can turn them on and off automatically to save time and money, while humidity sensors let you know where cool air can do the most good. Some tower fans offer Bluetooth control and smart home integration, too. I like these features, but they usually mean trusting one person with the app and profile management, so keep that in mind if you want your fan to be smart.
Dyson's app is complex but allows for in-depth control of the air in your home. Screenshots by Ry Crist/CNETTimersTimers shut off tower fans after a certain period, which is nice if you want them to turn off in the morning, etc. If a tower fan doesn't have any advanced sensors, it should at least have a timer mode. Control optionsDo you want onboard control, a remote control, app controls or a bit of everything? Think about how you'll use the tower fan and what you may like to control from afar versus up close and personal. Design and cleaningTower fans should also have a durable design (hopefully, one that looks great, too) with features that make it easy to carry around and open up to clean out or replace filters. What if I want to use a smart plug?
Unfortunately, most tower fans won't work very well with smart plugs due to timers. Chris Monroe/CNETA smart plug, such as the WeMo Mini, the Amazon Smart Plug or the TP-Link Kasa Smart Plug, can automate whatever you plug into it, and they work great with things like desk fans, space heaters and air conditioners to let you turn things on and off remotely from your phone or with a voice command. Some can even monitor energy use, which is a terrific feature for something like a fan. Things get trickier with tower fans, though. Why? Most of them include remotes, and fans with remotes typically don't include physical dials that you can leave in the on position. Controls like those are a must if you want to use a smart plug because a smart plug won't toggle between different settings or anything like that. They just turn the power on and off.
Enlarge Image
If you want to control your fan with a smart plug, then you'll need to use something simpler, like this Lasko floor fan. Ry Crist/CNETIf you want to use a tower fan with a smart plug, you'll need one that can turn on to your desired setting as soon as you plug it in -- in other words, a fan with a physical dial. There just aren't very many tower fans like that on the market these days (here's one I found at Walmart that gets mixed reviews). Maybe that adds a small bit of extra appeal to a smart fan like the Dyson model listed above, or to fans with built-in smart controls like this SmartMi model or the Lasko model mentioned above, but the better takeaway is that smart plug aficionados will likely need to downgrade to something like a floor fan with a more basic design.
What we updated
Spring 2025: I exchanged many models for newer, current versions of fans from the same brands, so my testing should still be accurate but you get the updated model instead. I also added the Levoit fan as a great all-rounder if you're looking for another alternative to compare.
FAQs
Are tower fans noisy?
Tower fans are generally designed to be as quiet as possible so that you can comfortably place them in a living space without causing a disturbance.
Show more
What is a good CFM for a tower fan?
To determine the appropriate CFM (cubic feet per minute) airflow for your tower fan, it’s important to consider the size of the room. For rooms less than 200 square feet, a fan with 3,000 CFM or less will suffice. If your room is between 200 to 300 square feet, look for a fan with a CFM range of 3,000 to 4,000. For spaces ranging from 300 to 450 square feet, a fan with 4,000 to 6,000 CFM will provide optimal airflow. For rooms larger than 450 square feet, choose a fan with 6,000 to 10,000 CFM to ensure sufficient air circulation.
Show more
What are the benefits of having a tower fan versus a box fan?
A tower fan can make any room look and feel more modern with its slim, vertical design. Tower fans take up less space than box fans, which makes them perfect if you need a space-saving cooling option. Additionally, tower fans tend to pack in more tech, including remote control options, air purification and even smart home features. And while box fans are often less expensive, you can find several reasonably priced tower fans to fit your budget.
Show more
Does a tower fan use less energy than AC?
The answer depends on how your cooling system is set up and how you use it. Generally, tower fans (as well as ceiling fans and box fans) use far less electricity than a standalone AC or window AC unit in a room. But tower fans and AC don't really perform the same tasks: AC units are made to actually lower the temperature, while tower fans make people feel cooler by blowing air. They both have their place but tower fans may be able to reduce reliance on expensive AC cooling to help save money.
Show more
Can I leave a tower fan on all day?
Check recommended use guidelines in the manual. It's usually fine to use a tower fan for an extended period of time, like overnight. But it's probably not great for the fan to run for more than 12 hours regularly, and that will use a lot more electricity, too.
Show more
About the Author
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs
Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking.
Read full bio
Also written by
Chris Wedel Home Tech Editor
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.