Best TV on a Budget for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechHome Entertainment TVs
Best TV on a Budget for 2025
You don't have to spend a lot of cash to get a good TV. Here are our top picks for the best budget televisions from Samsung, Roku and more.
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Article updated on March 28, 2025 at 10:29 AM PDT
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to Consider
Price
Decide how much you're willing to spend -- even on a budget TV. Smaller screens are cheaper, well-known brands are more expensive and spending more money can also get you better image quality.
Screen size
Bigger is better in our book. We recommend a size of at least 43 inches for a bedroom TV and at least 55 inches for a living room or main TV — and 65 inches or larger is best.
Features
Look for a feature including full-array local dimming, mini-LED and 120Hz refresh rate, which (unlike some other extras) do help improve the picture in our experience.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Buying a satisfying TV doesn’t mean you have to break the bank. Not everyone needs fancy features like infinite OLED contrast or the scorching mini-LED brightness of the best TVs -- just a solid screen that works well in a bedroom or living room. Entry-level TVs aren't flashy, but they can bring a clear and balanced picture at a budget price. Features of cheap TVs typically include LCD panels with a 60Hz native refresh rate, 4K resolution and HDR playback plus smart TV streaming built-in. Differences in brightness, the color quality of the screen, the type of HDR format, extra features (for gaming and more) and the usefulness of the smart platform help elevate certain models. Our Picks
Best budget TV overall Samsung DU7200 Series
Jump to details
$330 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best budget TV for Android users TCL 4-Series Google TV
Jump to details
$348 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget TV for Roku fans Roku Select Series
Jump to details
$335 at Target
Jump to details
TV DEALS OF THE WEEK
75-inch TCL QM6K 4K QD-Mini LED Google TV (2025 Model):  $850 (save $150)
65-inch LG C4 Series 4K 120Hz OLED Evo Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,397 (save $1,303)
75-inch Hisense U7 Series 4K Mini-LED ULED Google Smart TV (2025 Model):  $1,298 (save $702)
77-inch LG C5 Series OLED Evo AI 4K Smart TV (2025 Model):  $2,997 (save $700)
65-inch Samsung S90D Series 4K OLED 144Hz Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,398 (save $300) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best TV on a Budget for 2025
What is the best cheap TV overall?
Best budget TV of 2025
Best budget TV overall
Best budget TV for Android users
Best budget TV for Roku fans
Smart TV systems: Budget TVs compared
Sound quality on budget TVs
Picture quality on budget TVs
Factors to consider when choosing a budget TV
How CNET tests budget TVs
Other budget TVs we tested
Budget TV FAQs
What is the best cheap TV overall?The Samsung DU7200 Series is at the top of our best budget TV list for a number of reasons, including sharp contrast and excellent brightness. Gamers will appreciate the quick screen response while cinephiles should find the HDR support and sound performance decent. If you're looking for the best cheap TV overall, the DU7200 is your best bet.
Still, the DU7200 may not suit everyone's needs. For this roundup, I tested four 50-inch TVs side by side in CNET's TV lab. While all of the TVs I tested showed compromises in some way or other -- something that's inevitable with a budget TV -- there were some real standouts in the bunch. Here’s how they fared.Best budget TV of 2025
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best budget TV overall
Samsung DU7200 Series
Pros
Excellent black levels
Minimal reflections
Great for gaming
Cons
Muted colors out of the box
Not the easiest to use
The Samsung is the best budget TV I tested this year, with the keenest contrast and excellent performance in a bright room. The Samsung also a great choice for gamers with one of the quickest screen responses. It may not have Dolby Vision (though none of these models do), but the onboard HDR support was decent enough. The Samsung had some of the best sound I tested, but of course this is a very low bar, and even a basic soundbar will sound better. As with any budget TV there are going to be some compromises. For instance, its color was noticeably muted out of the box, but this was easily fixed by boosting the Color control. Yet, using that remote control to do so takes getting used to — there’s no HDMI input button, for instance, and no dedicated settings button, either. But like any TV, after practice it becomes second nature to operate it how you like.Samsung has been the most popular TV brand for more than a decade, and while the company’s models don't always perform well in our tests, the DU7200 is a great example of a high-performing, yet affordable TV.  ... Show more
Get it now
$330 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Sizes
43-, 50-, 55-, 60-, 65-, 70-, 75-, 75-, 80-inchTV technology
LEDSmart TV
Yes (Tizen OS)Resolution
4KRefresh rate
60HzHDMI ports
3
Add to compare
David Katzmaier/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
David Katzmaier/CNET
Best budget TV for Android users
TCL 4-Series Google TV
7.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
OK picture quality
Good color
Affordable
Cons
Crushed shadow detail
The TCL is a budget TV that has decent picture quality and is also a little cheaper than the Samsung. It exhibited well-saturated colors and had black levels and pop equal to the DU7200. It also delivered excellent responsiveness with gaming.The Google TV smart TV platform makes TCL a good choice for people who own Android phones or use the Google Assistant in their homes. While Android TV is not as easy to use as Roku, it’s more amenable to sharing from your Android phone or other devices. It also plays great from Apple devices. Like the Samsung before it, though, the TCL doesn’t get everything right — for instance it had the worst shadow detail of all of the TVs. That means it displayed “crushed” blacks in both HDR and 1080p, and every other TV here was better at showing you what, if anything, was hiding in the shadows. For that reason gamers might want to choose another budget model.  ... Show more
Get it now
$348 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Sizes
43-, 50-, 55-, 65-, 75-, 85-inchTV technology
LEDSmart TV
Yes (Google TV)Resolution
4KRefresh rate
60HzHDMI ports
3 Score Breakdown
Design
7
Features
7
Performance
5
Value
9
Learn more
TCL 4-Series Google TV review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best budget TV for Roku fans
Roku Select Series
7.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Excellent user ergonomics
Uses the Roku interface
Decent gaming performance
Cons
Screen is reflective
Shadows are green
The Roku Select showed some of the best color of the group with natural skin tones as well as good color saturation. Yet, the reason to buy the Roku Select Series is the same as buying (almost) anything with the Roku name on it: the excellent user interface. The Roku OS is the most popular way to stream TV for a reason — it's friendly and easy to use. The TV also comes with a bunch of usability features including a voice-activated remote that includes a remote finder. It was also decent at playing games and 4 HDMI ports should enable you to connect most of your AV devices.That said, the Roku Select I tested had the worst image quality, especially when watching movies. Its black levels were washed-out, its shadows tinged with green and it also had the most distracting reflections when I watched in a lighted room.  ... Show more
Get it now
$335 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Sizes
55-, 65-, 75-inchTV technology
LEDSmart TV
Yes (Roku TV)Resolution
4KRefresh rate
60HzHDMI ports
4
Learn more
Roku Select Series review
Add to compareSmart TV systems: Budget TVs compared
The Roku interface Ty Pendlebury/CNETWhen looking at the TVs for testing, I wanted to ensure I chose a decent cross-section of smart TV interfaces, and it’s arguably from the four most popular: Roku, Google TV, Fire TV and Samsung Smart Hub.Most users have their own favorite when it comes to smart TV, but Roku’s is beloved and boasts millions of users due to its simple, friendly interface. The remote control is the key to the experience and the voice-activated remote finder works well.The TCL’s Google TV is great for content discovery, but some people prefer an apps-first approach rather than a bunch of categories they have no direct control over. As I mentioned above, Google TV is great if you have an Android or Nest system at home. Chromecast makes it easy to send content zinging around your home, and it’s a little easier to search for content using your voice, too.Though it’s objectively ugly, I found the shortcut bar in the Amazon Fire TV’s interface invaluable. That input shortcut makes it easy to switch between connected devices and having the apps right in the center means you don’t have to wade through acres of content suggestions.Of the four I tested, I liked the Samsung smart TV interface the least — it’s simply not as user-friendly as the others. For instance, the settings menu is hidden behind multiple button presses as are the Connected Devices.
The TCL 4 series remote, the Amazon Fire TV remote, Roku Voice Remote and Samsung remote Ty PEndlebury/CNET Sound quality on budget TVs
As soon as flat-screen TVs arrived, sound quality suffered. It’s a matter of physics really — sound is about pushing air around, and there simply isn’t enough room on the bottom edge of a TV to do that well. I have long espoused the benefits of a separate soundbar — especially if you want to use a TV for gaming or watching movies. To begin, I set every TV in its default sound mode, which for three TVs was Standard, and for the TCL was Dynamic. Of the four, the Amazon delivered the best clarity with Tom Hardy’s tenor voice at the beginning of Mad Max. The Samsung wasn't quite as clear but it was able to be played louder. Meanwhile the Roku’s sound had no bass and Hardy’s voice sounded raspy in a nasty way. Lastly, the TCL sounded OK though it wasn’t as clear as the Amazon or Samsung. Picture quality on budget TVs
The TCL 4-series (left), Roku Select (center) and Samsung DU7200 (right) were compared side by side in our lab. Ty Pendlebury/CNETGiven the affordable nature of these screens I was surprised at how variable, but in some instances how good, the picture quality looked. While even the best screens had some image quality issues, it was about how they each balanced these with the more important things like contrast. In all instances, I chose the best-looking mode on each TV (movie) with any adaptive modes disabled.I starting with the opening scenes of It (Part 1) as they are a great way to test a TVs picture by incorporating plenty of shadow detail as well as high-contrast HDR images. At 3:05 you see Georgie (Jackson Robert Scott) at the top of the basement stairs with light splashed against the wall behind him. The Samsung and Roku TVs showed everything in the room, including the banister and the beams under the stairs, but the Roku was too green. Meanwhile, the Amazon had better black levels, but it crushed his face a little, and on the TCL you couldn’t tell what was happening apart from a kid standing at some steps. I attempted to fix the TCL’s issues by enabling High Dynamic Contrast and Low Micro contrast to get better shadows, but it still had the worst contrast of the four.Later during this scene, another issue arose on the Roku, where its preponderance for overexposed shadow detail led to some strangely strobing shadows in one corner of the basement. As I was using Fandango From Home to stream, it was likely a artifact that was hidden by the other TVs. Spooky, sure, but unintentional.Next I tested the budget models with the movie Troy, and found that the Samsung’s subdued palette continued. Though the Amazon Fire TV’s picture had looked good up until this point, this movie exposed a new issue — the assembled soldiers looked overly pink and the shadows on their faces turned an unnatural tomato red. Meanwhile, the faces on the Roku appeared a little washed out, and the TCL, on balance, was pretty good.In summary, the Samsung offered the best picture here, with excellent black levels and low-level shadow detail. It was decidedly less saturated looking than the other TVs, though color is less crucial than contrast, and this was easily fixed by increasing the Color control about 10 points. Conversely, the TV with the least impressive picture was the Roku with those overly green shadows and the lightest black levels.
The Roku Select (left) alongside the Samsung DU7200 Ty Pendlebury/CNET Factors to consider when choosing a budget TV
Budget TVs are cheap and often lack many of the features that make more expensive TVs so appealing. That said, there are still a few things that you'll want to consider when looking at a budget TV.Price: TVs range in price from $100 to more than $2,000. Smaller screens are cheaper, well-known brands are more expensive and spending more money can also get you better image quality. Most entry-level TVs have a good enough picture for most people, but TVs last a long time, so it might be worth spending more to get a better picture. It's also best to shop for a TV in the fall, when prices are lower.Screen size: Bigger is better in our book. We recommend a size of at least 43 inches for a bedroom TV and at least 55 inches for a living room or main TV — and 65 inches or larger is best. More than any other "feature," stepping up in TV screen size is the best use of your money. One of the most common post-TV-purchase complaints we've heard is from people who didn't go big enough. And we almost never hear people complain that their TV is too large.Capability: Among entry-level TVs, the most important feature is what kind of smart TV system the TV uses. Among midrange models, look for a feature including full-array local dimming, mini-LED and 120Hz refresh rate, which (unlike some other extras) do help improve the picture in our experience. And among high-end TVs, OLED technology is your best bet.For more TV buying advice check out our guide to how to buy a TV. How CNET tests budget TVs
For this roundup, four budget 50-inch TVs were compared side by side, using an AVPro Connect 8x8 4K HDR distribution matrix in various lighting conditions and playing different media, including movies, TV shows and games, across a variety of test categories, from brightness to video processing to gaming to HDR. Instead of performing CNET's standard suite measurements or Geek Box tests for this group of TVs, I measured input lag for gaming as well as brightness in nits using a Konica Minolta LS-100 luminance meter. Our evaluations also account for design, features, smart TV performance, HDMI input, gaming compatibility and other factors.Check out our page on how we test TVs for more details. Other budget TVs we tested
Amazon Fire TV 4-series (2020): The Amazon 4 was part of our budget TV testing done back in 2022, and is not a current model. Like many Amazon products, it has stayed on sale long after being replaced by the 2024 model. Budget TV FAQs
Are cheap TVs worth it?
In general, the answer is yes. Everyone has different needs, but cheap TVs offer a totally fine viewing experience for most people. You're obviously not going to get the absolute best in picture quality or features in an entry-level TV, but you will get a TV with decent picture quality that will last for years.
Show more
Will TV prices drop?
The TV prices are cyclical. Each year, new TVs are announced in January, before hitting the shelves in the spring and early summer. They then go on sale during the fall and into Black Friday, where they typically hit their lowest prices, as manufacturers try to clear out inventory for the new models coming out in January.That said, entry-level TVs are already pretty cheap to begin with, so discounts don't tend to be as large as those on more expensive models.
Show more
Are smaller TVs always cheaper?
Not always, but usually. Larger TVs of the same brand and series are almost always more expensive than smaller ones.Pricing largely depends on the type of TV you're hoping to get. For example, you'll certainly be able to find a larger TV from a budget brand with basic features that costs less than a smaller high-end TV. The difference in price in this instance is most likely based on the varying types of technology used in the two TVs.It's generally a good idea to first determine the size of the TV you want and then come up with a budget for the purchase. This allows you to compare all the various models in your budget and price range, so that you can find the best TV for you.
Show more
Can a budget TV get bright enough?
While some expensive TVs can get into the thousands of nits, budget TVs are much dimmer. Most of the TVs I tested were in the 300-nit range, which is fine for most rooms regardless of lighting conditions, but they pale in comparison to the brightest models.Where the lack of out-and-out brightness affected each TV was in the reflectivity of their screens. Without a lot of brightness coming out of the screen, very bright reflections and bright room lighting in general can overwhelm an image. The worst performer here was the Roku -- its surface was almost mirror-like and it had the brightest reflections of overhead light. Each TV -- from Amazon to TCL and the best in this regard, Samsung --offered better rejection of ambient light.
Show more
Are budget TVs good for gaming?
Generally speaking, all of the TVs would work well enough for gaming, with bright colors and enough contrast to keep shadowed areas clear. These TVs lack the advanced picture processing that you’ll find on more expensive models and this results in excellent latency scores. Both the TCL and Samsung scored under 10ms, which is up to 5ms quicker than premium models. Translation: Games played very well in my testing. If you want a gaming TV, you don’t need to spend much at all.On the other hand, none of these TVs, and no budget models in general, support advanced gaming features that bring out the best picture quality with new consoles, like a PlayStation 5 or Xbox Series X. Since they don't support 4K/120Hz input or variable refresh rate, they can't deliver that extra level of smoothness on supported games. And their lower brightness, contrast and poorer shadow detail mean that image quality for gaming -- like for TV shows and movies -- won’t match that of the best TVs.
Show more
About the Author
Ty Pendlebury Editor Ty Pendlebury Editor
TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
Read full bio
CNET TV Coverage
TV Types
Best TV
Best Smart TV
Best 4k TV
Best Budget TV
Best TV for PS5 & Xbox
Best Gaming TV
Best TV Deals
Best 4k TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best OLED TV Deals
Best Apple TV Deals
TV Sizes
Best 75-Inch TV
Best 65-Inch TV
Best 55-Inch TV
Best 43-Inch TV
Best 32-Inch TV
Streaming & TV Accessories
CNET Streaming TV Insider
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Service
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Best Soundbar
Best TV Antenna
Best AV Receiver
Best HDMI Cables
Best Universal Remote
TV Information
How CNET Tests TVs
QLED vs OLED
HDMI vs Optical
TV Resolutions Explained
LCD vs OLED
How to Connect a VCR to Your New TV
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.