Investors Flock to Semiliquid Funds for Income | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Private Credit Is Still Thriving
How the Largest Semiliquid Credit Funds Have Fared
How the Largest Equity Funds Have Fared
Investors Prefer Alternative Asset Managers for Semiliquid Funds
Home
Alternative Investments
Investors Flock to Semiliquid Funds for Income
Investors Flock to Semiliquid Funds for Income
Private credit’s golden age continues.
Jason Kephart
Sep 25, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Cliffwater Corporate Lending I
(CCLFX)
PIMCO Flexible Credit Income Inst
(PFLEX)
Alternative asset managers’ push to make investing in private markets mainstream is gaining momentum. Assets in semiliquid funds available to nonqualified purchasers totaled almost $450 billion at the end of June 2025, up 16% from the end of 2024 and up 77% from the end of 2022.Semiliquid funds, which include interval funds, tender-offer funds, nontraded business development companies, and nontraded REITs, offer periodic redemptions of typically 5%–10% of assets each quarter. This structure allows managers to invest in illiquid securities while still allowing investors to sell shares periodically. Those illiquid securities are often private investments, like direct loans or private equity, that aren’t otherwise accessible to investors who don’t meet the eligibility standards based on their net worth.Credit-focused strategies remain the most popular, with assets in semiliquid credit funds climbing to $230 billion, a 22% increase since the end of 2024. These funds have delivered higher yields than public fixed income by combining floating-rate loans with leverage. Because floating-rate bonds pay interest based on a spread over short-term rates, their income rises when short-term rates are high and falls when rates decline. While a widely expected Federal Reserve rate-cutting cycle will likely reduce income from floating-rate credit funds, there is no sign that investor appetite for the asset class is waning.
Investor Demand for Income Drives Semiliquid Fund Asset Growth in 2025
Source: Morningstar Direct, SEC filings. Data as of June 30, 2025. Download CSV.For nontraded REITs, net assets are now based on the manager’s estimate of fair value rather than GAAP, which uses historical cost and deducts depreciation. This change increases reported asset levels compared with our prior report, though the overall trend of flat to declining assets across the category remains the same.Private Credit Is Still ThrivingThe most popular and fastest-growing semiliquid vehicle remains the nontraded BDC, which provides direct and straightforward exposure to private credit through loans. By registering as a BDC, a fund must invest at least 70% of its portfolio in loans to private companies or public companies with a market cap under $250 million and must distribute at least 90% of taxable income to shareholders, similar to a REIT. These funds, however, tend to be expensive, often charging a 1.25% management fee plus a 12.5% income-based incentive fee. Assets in nontraded BDCs reached $145 billion at the end of June, up 23% from the end of 2024.
Nontraded Business Development Companies Are the Most Popular Semiliquid Vehicle
Source: Morningstar Direct, SEC filings. Data as of June 30, 2025. Download CSV.Tender-offer funds were the second-fastest-growing vehicle, reaching $94 billion, up 18%, followed by interval funds, up 16% to $118 billion, and nontraded REITs, up 4% to $92 billion. How the Largest Semiliquid Credit Funds Have FaredExhibit 3 shows the net assets, recent net flows, and returns for the 10 largest semiliquid credit funds.
Top 10 Largest Semiliquid Credit Funds Midyear Scorecard 2025
Source: Morningstar Direct, SEC filings. Data as of June 30, 2025. Assets and flows in USD millions. Funds available to nonqualified purchasers. I-shares used for performance. Download CSV.Cliffwater Corporate Lending CCLFX continues to lead all interval funds in net inflows, and its $4.54 billion haul in the first half of 2025 was second only to Blackstone Private Credit. While the nontraded BDCs mostly own loans directly, Cliffwater invests in both other private credit funds and direct loans, through co-investments with the funds it owns.The 10 largest funds have been able to outpace the Morningstar LTSA US Leveraged Loan Index, but much of that outperformance can be attributed to leverage.Pimco Flexible Credit Income PFLEX earned a Morningstar Medalist Rating of Silver in Morningstar’s initial round of ratings for semiliquid funds, indicating our conviction that the fund will outperform its Morningstar Category benchmark over a full market cycle. Star managers Dan Ivascyn and Alfred Murata lead a top-tier Pimco team that applies a proven, opportunistic, relative value approach across both traditional and higher-risk strategies. It distinguishes itself from many of the other strategies in the top 10 by doing only a small amount of direct lending (6%) and owning more public debt (63%) as of June 30. It does employ leverage, which has helped drive its higher relative returns versus peers. How the Largest Equity Funds Have FaredExhibit 4 shows the net assets, recent net flows, and returns for the 10 largest semiliquid equity funds.
The 10 Largest Semiliquid Equity Funds Midyear Scorecard 2025
Source: Morningstar Direct, SEC filings. Data as of June 30, 2025. Assets and flows in USD millions. Funds available to nonqualified purchasers. I-shares used for performance. Download CSV.Cascade Private Capital, which was acquired by Cliffwater in 2024, continues to rapidly raise assets. This fund primarily invests in secondary offerings of private equity funds. Secondary funds get a return boost from being able to buy shares of private equity funds at a discount and mark them back to their stated net asset value. Strong inflows can lead to even better performance. Investors should be wary of high early returns for secondary-focused funds on account of this phenomenon.Performance for the largest semiliquid equity funds has generally been positive for the first half of the year. The Morningstar US Market Index did experience a nearly 20% drawdown from February through April, which weighed on its returns. Semiliquid equity funds have drawn criticism for appearing to understate the actual volatility of their underlying holdings, which may have contributed to their outperformance.Investors Prefer Alternative Asset Managers for Semiliquid FundsFund companies best known for their mutual funds and exchange-traded funds have yet to gain much traction with semiliquid fund investors, despite a slew of attention-grabbing headlines over the past 12 months.The largest providers are those that specialize in private market investing and were early to start marketing to financial advisors, like Blackstone, which began its private wealth group in 2011.The five largest firms managed approximately 46% of all assets in semiliquid funds available to nonqualified purchasers. Blackstone’s market share did slip a little in the first half of 2025. That’s attributable to still-tepid investor interest in nontraded REITs, of which Blackstone Real Estate Income is the largest by leaps and bounds.
Blackstone Continues to Manage the Lion's Share of Semiliquid Fund Assets
Source: Morningstar Direct, SEC filings. Data as of June 30, 2025. Assets in USD millions. Funds available to nonqualified purchasers. . Download CSV.
Correction: In the original version of this article, the time series charts were displayed with the timeline progressing from right to left. The timeline now flows from left to right for improved readability and consistency.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Alternative Investments
View All
Managed-Futures Funds Look to Rebound. Can They Help Diversify Your Portfolio? Whipsaws hurt now, resilience matters later.
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 18, 2025
Ask Your Advisor These Questions Before Investing in Derivative Income ETFs Derivative income ETFs like JEPI are hot, but are they a good investment idea for you?
Jason Kephart and Susan Dziubinski Sep 4, 2025
Can the Gold Rush Continue? Warning Signs for Investors The yellow metal has been on a tear, but caution may be warranted.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 2, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Jason Kephart Senior Principal
More from Author
Jason Kephart, CFA, is a senior principal, multi-asset strategy ratings, for Morningstar.
Investors Flock to Semiliquid Funds for Income
Jason Kephart Sep 25, 2025
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global?
Jason Kephart Sep 18, 2025
The Key to a Winning 401(k)
Jason Kephart Sep 11, 2025
Ask Your Advisor These Questions Before Investing in Derivative Income ETFs
Jason Kephart Sep 4, 2025
5 Things You Need to Know About Interval Fund Fees
Jason Kephart Aug 28, 2025
3 Liquid Alternative Funds That Bring the Defense
Jason Kephart Aug 21, 2025
Which Vanguard Balanced Fund Is Right for You?
Jason Kephart Aug 14, 2025
Active ETFs Are a Top Choice for Model Portfolio Providers
Jason Kephart Jul 31, 2025
These 10 Firms Are Making Semiliquid Funds a Big Deal
Jason Kephart Jul 24, 2025
The Best Allocation Model Portfolios
Jason Kephart Jul 17, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility