Review: Best Cheeseburger From 4 Chain Restaurants - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Food
I tried classic cheeseburgers from 4 major chains. Only one stood out as the ideal choice for football season.
By
Erin McDowell
We tried cheeseburgers from four chain restaurants to determine a winner for football season.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
Updated
2025-09-19T12:47:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Football season is a time for chain restaurants to draw in customers.
We tried classic cheeseburgers from four chains to determine the best option for game day.
Buffalo Wild Wings impressed us with its juicy, double-stacked burger.
Nothing says football season like a juicy, classic cheeseburger from your favorite local chain.In "Tailgate Taste-off," Business Insider is pitting these chains against each other to uncover the best versions of popular game-day dishes.
While chicken products are one of the biggest fast-food and casual-dining trends as we kicked off 2025, the burger still reigns supreme among many US consumers, even though prices are climbing.A recent Toast report said that in Q2 2024, the average price of a cheeseburger at quick-service restaurants rose 4.6% year over year, reaching $11.45.Over the past few years, casual-dining chains like Chili's and Applebee's have introduced value meals that highlighted burgers, and McDonald's recently revamped its menu with Extra Value meals that included a Big Mac meal deal for $8.
We ranked classic cheeseburgers from four chain restaurants — Applebee's, Chili's, Buffalo Wild Wings, and TGI Fridays — based on taste and value.Here's how the four chain restaurants' cheeseburgers ranked, from our least to most favorite.
My least favorite burger came from TGI Fridays.
The burger came on a brioche bun and had a side of fries.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
I ordered the cheeseburger at the restaurant I visited in Massachusetts. It cost $12.49, excluding taxes and fees, and came with a side of fries.I live in New York City, but I had to travel further afield to try the chain's burger because many of my local TGI Fridays restaurants have closed.In early November 2024, the chain filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, and Reuters reported that it was facing $37 million in debt, which led to some underperforming restaurants closing.The TGI Fridays location I visited in Massachusetts is locally franchised and owned, so it's not included in the larger brand's bankruptcy filing.
The cheeseburger was topped with two slices of American cheese, lettuce, tomato, pickles, and red onion.
The burger didn't automatically come with any sauce.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
Like the other burgers I tried in this taste test, the burger was served on a brioche bun. When I lifted the burger to examine the toppings, I noticed that the very soft bun had partially stuck to the melted cheese.This wasn't necessarily a knock on its own, but adding a sauce or butter to the bun could have made it less dry.There's no sauce on the burger, but there's ketchup provided on every table, or you could request mustard or ketchup on it if you desired. However, I tried it completely on its own.
The burger was a touch overdone, even though I ordered it medium.
I thought the burger was slightly overdone.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
I requested my burger to be cooked medium, but it came out closer to well-done and was quite dry. That said, I did enjoy the flavor of the meat, which I found to be peppery and well-seasoned.The sliced tomato tasted fairly fresh, but the lettuce was limp and forgettable. The burger had a generous serving of pickles and onions, which I enjoyed. However, overall, I found this burger lacking in flavor, and a layer of sauce could have gone a long way.The fries were also well-seasoned, and I enjoyed them.
Next up was the Oldtimer with cheese from Chili's.
The Oldtimer can be ordered with or without cheese.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
At the Massachusetts location I visited, the most classic cheeseburger on Chili's menu cost $13.29, plus tax.Though Chili's is not primarily a burger restaurant, burgers are a major part of the brand's strategy, which appears to be working."Over the past two and a half years, we've removed around a quarter of our menu to focus on our core four offerings: burgers, crispers, fajitas, and margaritas, which now represent 47% of our business," Kevin Hochman, the president and CEO of Chili's parent company Brinker International Inc., said in October 2024.The Chili's team has now started referencing its "Five to Drive," which also includes the Triple Dipper.In the chain's fourth-quarter earnings report, Chili's reported a 23.7% increase in same-restaurant sales and a 16% increase in traffic last summer compared to the same three-month period in 2024.
The Oldtimer Burger was topped with cheddar cheese, pickles, shredded lettuce, sliced tomato, diced red onions, and mustard.
The burger comes topped with a flavorful layer of mustard.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
The cheddar cheese was perfectly melted, and the burger patty also had a nice char on the outside. The burger was definitely cooked medium and had a nice juiciness to it while remaining slightly crispy on the outside.When I lifted the top bun, I saw a light smear of mustard on top of the cheese. While it wasn't an enormous amount of mustard, it permeated each bite.
I thought the mustard could have been dialed back a bit.
The toppings all tasted fresh, but the mustard was slightly overpowering.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
The mustard was quite sharp, and while I do like mustard, it was a bit too much for me.However, the rest of the burger really impressed me. The char on the smashed patty was perfectly crispy, and the other ingredients were fresh. The red onion brought a nice bite, and the brioche bun held everything together. I also liked the choice of shredded lettuce, which added a crispy freshness.The fries were also solid: warm, crispy, and well-seasoned.Overall, it was a good classic burger, but I've had Chili's burgers I've enjoyed more in the past, like the Big Smasher, which is their take on a McDonald's Big Mac, and the chain's southwestern-inspired Alex's Santa Fe burger.
My second favorite burger came from Applebee's.
The classic cheeseburger came with a gooey layer of cheese peeking out from beneath a shiny bun.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
The burger typically costs $19.19, excluding tax, at the location I visited in Brooklyn, New York.Similar to last year, Applebee's teamed up with the NFL as the league's official grill and bar partner, recognizing a strong overlap between their customer base and NFL viewers.
The Classic Cheeseburger came with two slices of American cheese, lettuce, tomato, red onion, and pickles on a brioche bun.
The two slices of cheese completely covered the beef burger patty.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
There was a thick, gooey layer of cheese melted onto the burger. I thought the two slices of cheese did a lot to elevate this burger.The outside of the burger patty was quite dark, which made me concerned it might have been cooked beyond the medium level I requested.However, I found the burger was supremely juicy and cooked even slightly on the side of medium-rare.
The burger was slightly less done than the others I tried. I didn't mind one bit.
I loved the flavor of the cheese and fresh toppings.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
The melted, tangy cheese covered every square inch of this burger, making for a balanced bite. The thickly sliced red onion also added a lot of flavor, and I thought the lettuce and tomato tasted fresh.This burger didn't have any sauce, but it wasn't dry at all, thanks to the cheese and buttery bun that seemed to melt in my mouth.Though it was very similar in ingredients to the TGI Fridays burger, it just tasted better, juicier, and fresher.
My favorite burger came from Buffalo Wild Wings.
The burger came with two burger patties sandwiched between a soft bun.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
I ordered the All-American Cheeseburger at my local Buffalo Wild Wings in Brooklyn, New York. It cost $14.49, excluding tax.Since Buffalo Wild Wings is primarily known for its traditional and boneless wings, I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this classic cheeseburger.
The burger came with two beef patties, American cheese, shredded lettuce, tomato, pickles, mayonnaise, and mustard.
The burger came coated in layers of melted cheese.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
I was impressed that this burger came with two burger patties. Each patty was crispy on the outside and coated in gooey melted cheese.When it arrived at the table, the bun was glistening, and inside was a hearty smear of mustard and mayonnaise.The fries were tasty, thin, and well-salted, but I had to admit I preferred some of the other chains' thicker fries.
I thought this burger was a great value, and I scarfed down every delicious bite.
The patties were crispy on the outside but juicy within.
Erin McDowell/Business Insider
The mayonnaise and mustard added a lot of moisture and flavor to this burger, but it truly didn't need it.The beef patties were juicy yet crispy, and the cheese was perfectly melted, adding a tangy, savory flavor to each bite. It felt like a more elevated version of a fast-food cheeseburger, and instantly transported me back to my childhood with its classic, fresh-tasting toppings and indulgent flavor.The addition of the second patty really enhanced the burger. For just under $15, I also thought it was the best value of all the burgers I tried.This burger delivered a winning bite, hitting all the right notes for a satisfying meal. I would definitely go back to try more of the chain's burgers — football season or not.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account