Best Password Manager in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager in 2025
A good password manager does more than just help you create secure passwords. It also stores them so you don't have to remember 16-digit strings of info.
Our Experts
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Article updated on May 12, 2025 at 5:30 AM PDT
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Security
Look for a password manager that operates on a zero-knowledge basis and secures user vaults with industry-standard AES 256-bit encryption. Independent security audits can also help bolster trust in a password manager.
Price
Most password managers have pricing plans for individuals, families and businesses. Pricing for family and business plans is more expensive than individual plans, but family and business plans cover multiple users, while individual plans are limited to a single user.
Cross-platform compatibility
Before you purchase a subscription to a password manager, make sure it's compatible with all of the devices, operating systems and browsers you regularly use. The password manager should also automatically sync your passwords and other vault items across all of your devices.
Features
Make sure your password manager has standard features like multifactor authentication, a password generator, secure sharing and automatic sync. Other useful features to look out for include secure file storage, login autofill, vault health reporting and data breach and dark web monitoring.
Secure sharing capabilities
Most password managers include secure sharing features that allow you to safely share vault items with others. Some password managers allow secure sharing only with other users of the same service, while others allow secure sharing with anyone, regardless of whether they use a password manager.
Secure file storage
Some password managers offer secure file storage options that allow you to safely store documents like health records, bank statements, insurance paperwork and title documents. Some allow for 1GB of secure storage space, while others may offer up to 10GB.
Family plan allowance
If you want to share a password manager subscription with family or friends, it's a good move to opt for a password manager family plan. With a family plan, one subscription fee covers anywhere from five to 10 individual accounts, depending on the provider.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
One of the worst things about having a secure password is remembering it. A secure password is usually long, littered with symbols and most certainly made up of numbers you'll struggle to recall. It's always a good idea to be smart and keep your online security and digital privacy intact. That's why we recommend using a password manager. A password manager can store your passwords and generate them, saving you the trouble of thinking them up yourself. Read on to check out our list of the best password managers of 2025.
Our Picks
Best overall password manager Bitwarden
Jump to details
See at Bitwarden
Jump to details
Best premium password manager 1Password
Jump to details
See at 1Password
Jump to details
Best password manager for large file attachments NordPass
Jump to details
Premium: 52% off + 1 extra month with 2-year plan with code:
CNETPASS
See at NordPass
Jump to details
Best password manager for offline vault access Keeper
Jump to details
See at Keeper Security
Jump to details
Best password manager for large families Dashlane
Jump to details
See at Dashlane
Jump to details
PASSWORD MANAGER DEALS OF THE WEEK
Bitwarden - Free Personal Plan: Unlimited Devices and Passkey Management:  $0 (save $0)
1Password – 50% Off Individual and Families Plans:  $3 (save $2)
Proton Pass — $2.49 Per Month (50% Off 1 Year Pass Plus Plan):  $30 (save $30)
Keeper Security — $1.67 Per Month (50% Off 1 Year Keeper Security Personal Plan):  $20 (save $20) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Password Manager in 2025
What is the best password manager?
Best password managers in 2025
Best overall password manager
Best premium password manager
Best password manager for large file attachments
Best password manager for offline vault access
Best password manager for large families
Factors to consider in password managers
How we test password managers
Other password managers we tested
What to look forward to in 2025
Best password manager FAQ
What is the best password manager?Editors' note, May 12: The recommendations on this page are accurate to our latest round of testing, but we'll be retesting password manager services later this year and our rankings may change. There are a lot of password managers out there, so CNET tested a dozen of the most popular services. Whether you're looking for a free password manager or you're open to spending a little money (it's well worth the cost for some peace of mind), we've evaluated everything from encryption to pricing, features, platform compatibility, privacy policies and company history to make picking the best secure password manager easier for you.Based on our rigorous testing, Bitwarden is currently CNET's top pick for the best password manager, thanks in large part to its commitment to transparency, ease of use and its unbeatable free tier.Best password managers in 2025
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best overall password manager
Bitwarden
Pros
Unbeatable free plan
Open-source and secure
Budget-friendly
Compatible with virtually all platforms
Cons
UI is outdated compared to competitors
Limited secure sharing features
Bitwarden is a solid choice if you want well-rounded premium password management that's secure, transparent, budget-friendly and easy to use -- or if you want a legitimately unlimited password management solution for free. There is also a desktop app and a mobile app you can use for easy access across all of your devices.Why we like itBitwarden scores points for being fully open-source, secure and audited annually by third-party cybersecurity firms, giving it a level of transparency that sets it apart from its peers. Meanwhile, its free plan lets you store an unlimited number of passwords and access them across an unlimited number of devices -- something most free password managers don’t offer. That’s in addition to many top-tier features like secure password sharing, encrypted vault export and a username and password generator.If you’d rather opt for a premium plan, Bitwarden offers full vault health reports, 1GB file storage, emergency access (where you can designate a trusted contact to access your vault in case of an emergency), Bitwarden authenticator and advanced multifactor authentication with YubiKey, FIDO2 and Duo. Premium plans are budget-friendly at $10 per year for individuals and $40 per year for families, which allows for up to six users.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Bitwarden
Specs & Configurations
Free trial
7 daysEncryption
AES 256-bitSecure sharing
1 other user on premium, 6 other users on family planPlatforms
Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS, Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Vivaldi, Opera, Brave, Edge, Tor, DuckDuckGo (Mac only), Web, CLI
Learn more
Bitwarden review
Add to compare
Jason Cipriani/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Jason Cipriani/CNET
Best premium password manager
1Password
Pros
Tons of useful features
Slick UI
Secure sharing with anyone
Robust family plan
Cons
No free plan
On the expensive side
1Password is a good choice for anyone who just wants the cleanest, easiest to use password manager, even if it means paying a little extra. It also offers useful features like Travel Mode that help it stand out from the competition.Why we like it1Password is a breeze to use on all your devices and includes some handy extras. The user interface is slick and intuitive, and its autofill functionality works seamlessly. Sharing passwords and other vault items with others is also simple, even if the people you’re sharing them with aren’t 1Password users.One standout feature is Travel Mode. When activated, vault items that you haven't marked as "Safe for Travel" will be temporarily erased from the app on all of your devices. This helps keep particularly sensitive login information or financial information inaccessible to any authorities who may ask you to unlock your device for inspection.1Password is slightly on the more expensive side at $36 per year for individual users or $60 per year for families. You won’t find a free plan, but 1Password includes a 14-day free trial. Honestly though, the peace of mind that 1Password offers is worth the cost.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at 1Password
Specs & Configurations
Free trial
14 days Encryption
AES 256-bitSecure sharing
Unlimited with anyonePlatforms
Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS, Chrome, Safari, Firefox, Edge, Brave, web, CLI
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best password manager for large file attachments
NordPass
Pros
30-day free trial of Premium
Great value password manager
Generous secure file storage allowance
Cons
Free users can be logged into only one device at a time
No preset place to store items like IDs
If you don't juggle a lot of devices but do need to share larger file sizes, NordPass is worth consideration. The paid plan lets you skip worrying about login limits, but family plans are more expensive than some competitors.Why we like itNordPass is well-designed, easy to navigate and works seamlessly across all platforms. The free version lets you store an unlimited number of vault items across all of your devices, and you get access to additional basic features like a password generator, advanced multi-factor authentication, passkey integration and automatic sync. If you’re on the free plan, you can use it on as many devices as you like, but you can only be logged into a single device at a time -- which is a moderate inconvenience, but I appreciate that NordPass lets you access your passwords on an unlimited number of devices nonetheless. With a premium plan, you can be logged into as many devices as you’d like. Paid users also have access to password health reports, data breach scanner and monitoring, secure sharing, emergency access and the ability to attach files to vault items totaling up to 3GB. Individual premium plans cost $25 for the first year (renews at $36 annually thereafter) or $36 for the first two years combined (then $36 annually). If you opt for the family plan, you’ll get six premium user accounts for $44 for the first year (then $72 annually) or $67 for the first two years combined (then $72 annually).  ... Show more
Get it now
Premium: 52% off + 1 extra month with 2-year plan with code:
CNETPASS
See at NordPass
Specs & Configurations
Free trial
30 daysEncryption
XChaCha20Secure sharing
Via the app with other NordPass users, or with anyone using the Password Sharer toolPlatforms
Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS, Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Brave, Safari, Opera, web
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best password manager for offline vault access
Keeper
Pros
Lots of storage with the family plan
Offline access
Cons
Limited compatibility with browser extensions
Free plan limited to one mobile device
Keeper is a great option if you're looking for a password manager but don't want to be online 24/7 to use it. Otherwise, its free plan is too restrictive to be useful and the paid plan runs pretty expensive.Why we like itLike other top password managers, Keeper lets you store and sync an unlimited number of vault items across an unlimited number of devices. Keeper offers apps for MacOS, Windows, Linux, iOS and Android, along with an extension for popular internet browsers including Chrome, Firefox, Safari and Brave.I like Keeper’s “offline mode,” which allows you to access your vault items even if you're somewhere with zero or limited internet access. Standard pricing is $35 per year for individuals and $75 per year for a family of five, which is on the expensive side. A free plan is available if you don’t want to pay for a subscription, but it’s basically useless because it limits access to a single mobile device and 10 passwords. You’re better off going with Bitwarden if you want a legitimate free password manager. Alternatively, you can try Keeper’s premium tier before fully committing thanks to its generous 30-day free trial.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Keeper Security
Specs & Configurations
Free trial
30 daysEncryption
AES 256-bitSecure sharing
Unlimited to anyonePlatforms
Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS, Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge, Opera, web
Add to compare
Dashlane
Photo Gallery 1/1
Dashlane
Best password manager for large families
Dashlane
Pros
Customizable login settings
A good value for families with lots of users
Cons
Family plan is pricey for small families
Password generator not as robust as competitors'
Dashlane isn't a slam-dunk choice for everyone, as its biggest value lies in expanded family plan, which offers roughly four more users than most other family plans. So if you need a plan that covers more than six people, Dashlane is one of your better password manager options. But for anyone who needs an individual or smaller family plan, you have better options.Why we (sort of) like it, and what to keep in mindDashlane's password generator isn't quite as robust as what others offer, but it works well and offers sufficient options for customization. Premium plans also include access to a virtual private network from Hotspot Shield, a middling VPN that falls short of cracking our list of top VPNs. Dashlane’s free plan used to allow for unlimited passwords on one device but now limits you to 25 passwords on a single device -- which is slightly more generous than Keeper’s 10-password limit but just as useless.Premium plans allow for an unlimited number of passwords on an unlimited number of devices but are decisively pricier than the competition (while delivering a lesser product). Individual plans cost $60 per year, which is more expensive than some of its rivals’ family plans. Dashlane's family plan covers up to 10 users, but for most people, 10 users is probably overkill and not worth the steep $90-per-year cost. Perhaps Dashlane’s high cost can be attributed to the fact that a VPN is included in the price, but you’re better off getting a quality VPN and a cheaper password manager separately than getting HotspotShield bundled with your Dashlane subscription.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Dashlane
Specs & Configurations
Free trial
30 daysEncryption
AES 256-bitSecure sharing
Unlimited with other Dashlane usersPlatforms
Windows, Mac, Android, iOS, Edge, Chrome, Firefox, Safari
Add to compareFactors to consider in password managers
With the numerous password manager options available, it can be overwhelming to choose the right one. CNET has thoroughly tested dozens of password managers over the years, and we've developed a pretty good idea of the types of things to look for in a quality service. Here are the most important things to consider when choosing a password manager:SecurityYou're putting a ton of trust in your password manager to keep your logins safe, so the security of the service should be your top concern. Look for a password manager that operates on a zero-knowledge basis and secures user vaults with industry-standard AES 256-bit encryption. Independent security audits can also help bolster trust in a password manager. If you're researching password managers, it's important to consider the company behind the service. Has the company been involved in any security incidents that have potentially compromised user data? If so, it's best to look elsewhere.  PricePricing for password managers can vary from provider to provider, so you'll want to pick a service that will fit your needs and budget. Most password managers have pricing plans for individuals, families and businesses. Pricing for family and business plans is more expensive than individual plans, but family and business plans cover multiple users, while individual plans are limited to a single user. Many password managers also offer free tiers, but they almost always come with limitations on features or device allowance. Some services, like Bitwarden, allow for unlimited vault entries on unlimited devices on their free plan. Most password managers also offer either a free trial or a money-back guarantee, so you can try them risk-free.   Cross-platform compatibilityOne of the most important aspects of using a password manager is having it available on all of the devices you use. Before you purchase a subscription to a password manager, make sure it's compatible with all of the devices, operating systems and browsers you regularly use. The password manager should also automatically sync your passwords and other vault items across all of your devices. This helps ensure that you can access your passwords at any time from any of your devices. FeaturesMake sure your password manager has standard features like multifactor authentication, a password generator, secure sharing and automatic sync. Other useful features to look out for include secure file storage, login autofill, vault health reporting and data breach and dark web monitoring. Many password managers also allow you to store things like credit card numbers, bank account numbers, health data, PIN codes and secure notes in addition to storing your online login credentials.  Secure sharing capabilitiesIt's never a good idea to share passwords or other highly sensitive information via email or SMS, but most password managers include secure sharing features that allow you to safely share vault items with others. Some password managers allow secure sharing only with other users of the same service, while others allow secure sharing with anyone, regardless of whether they use a password manager. Secure sharing features are also typically customizable and allow you to set restrictions on how many times a shared vault item can be accessed or for how long. If you're planning on sharing certain passwords with family members, friends or colleagues, it's a good idea to check on the password manager's secure sharing capabilities to ensure they suit your security needs.    Secure file storageSome password managers offer secure file storage options that allow you to safely store documents like health records, bank statements, insurance paperwork and title documents. Some allow for 1GB of secure storage space, while others may offer up to 10GB. Depending on whether you need to store files and how much space you would need, it's a good idea to look into the secure file storage capabilities and allowances of the password manager you're considering.Family plan allowanceIf you want to share a password manager subscription with family or friends, it's a good move to opt for a password manager family plan. With a family plan, one subscription fee covers anywhere from five to 10 individual accounts, depending on the provider. A family plan is a convenient and cost-effective option for anyone who wants to easily and securely share vault items with trusted contacts. How we test password managers
When we test password managers, we spend a few days testing each service to see how well the features work and how easy it is to use, as well as reading up on the service's privacy and security details.Security and privacyThe most important consideration for any password manager is the security of the product, so we take a particularly close look at what encryption standards it uses, whether it's a zero-knowledge service and whether it has been independently audited. We carefully examine each provider's privacy policy to get a sense of what personal data is collected from users and how that data is secured. We prefer services that store minimal data.PricingWe examine the provider's pricing to compare rates for individual and family plans against other services, and we check whether a free version is available. The best password managers offer a good blend between prices and plan limits, and services that are too restrictive with plans or that unnecessarily broaden plans to inflate prices lose points in our testing.Features and platformsWe also test how the password manager performed across platforms, devices and operating systems. We test the services' multi-factor authentication, password generator and secure sharing features and evaluate the overall look and feel of the UI, including monitoring and password health reporting, if applicable. Other password managers we tested
EnpassEnpass is unique in that it doesn't have centralized servers that store your data. You can either store your vault on your devices themselves or in your personal cloud storage like Dropbox or iCloud. That makes it a great option for anyone who wants complete control over the storage of their password manager vaults. On the downside, the app is a bit outdated and clunky but still fully functional.See at EnpassKeePassKeePass is completely open source and completely free. It's a powerful password manager but geared primarily toward the techie crowd. Regular people may find the interface outdated and cumbersome to navigate compared with those of other password managers.See at KeePassApple PasswordsApple launched a new Passwords app with the release of iOS 18 in September. It’s a step up from the basic functionality offered by iCloud Keychain, but Passwords is still rather barebones and mostly only useful for Apple users. Apple’s Passwords app is a secure and convenient place to store your passwords, passkeys, authentication codes and Wi-Fi network passwords across your Apple devices. I like the app’s Security section that alerts you if it detects any compromised or reused passwords. You can also securely share passwords and passkeys with trusted contacts. The Passwords app is only available for iPhone, iPad and Apple Vision Pro, but you can leverage iCloud Keychain to access your passwords on a Mac or PC.See at Apple What to look forward to in 2025
Passwords may be ubiquitous, but they're not the most secure method of authentication" target="_self. One of the bigger trends in authentication tech is the gradual move toward passkeys, which allow you to sign into accounts using biometrics, PIN codes or physical security keys, effectively eliminating the risk of credential-stuffing or phishing.In January of last year, Bitwarden began letting people log into their password vaults using passkeys, touting the technology's combination of convenience and end-to-end encryption. And Bitwarden's not alone -- 1 Password, NordPass, Dashlane and Keeper all support passkeys. Best password manager FAQ
Is a free password manager plan worth it?
If you’re looking for a free password manager, then it needs to offer two things for it to be worth it: strong zero-knowledge encryption and auto-syncing of unlimited passwords across unlimited devices. Having access to all of your passwords across all of your devices is the foundation of your password manager’s effectiveness. If the free password manager you’re using can only be used on one device and for only a handful of passwords, then it’s practically useless beyond just giving you a preview of what you can expect the software’s paid tier look and feel to be like.A free password manager typically won’t include advanced features like detailed vault health reports, data breach scanning and encrypted file attachments, but if all you need is a safe place to store all of your passwords that you can access from all of your devices, then there are a few options. I recommend using Bitwarden if you want a legitimate unlimited free password manager that you can use for the long term. It’s one of the few password managers that offers a free tier that delivers core password manager features -- plus a few extras -- at no cost.
Show more
Which password manager is the most secure?
Bitwarden is the most secure password manager right now thanks to its zero-knowledge end-to-end AES-CBC 256-bit encryption, excellent security features and annual independent security audits. Many other password manager apps are closed-source, but Bitwarden is fully open-source, meaning that its entire source code is publicly available for anyone to scrutinize. Bitwarden also operates a Security and Compliance Program that defines policies “that govern security practices and processes and are continually updated to be consistent with applicable legal, industry, and regulatory requirements,” according to its Security Whitepaper.
Show more
Do security experts recommend password managers?
Yes, security experts recommend using a password manager as an effective way to maintain the security of your online accounts. Weak and reused passwords can make it easy for bad actors to gain access to your accounts, potentially leading to consequences like identity theft or financial loss. Security experts recommend password managers because they can create and store unique, complex passwords that make it exponentially more difficult for anyone to crack your account logins. Security experts also like password managers because they can monitor the dark web for potentially compromised credentials, notify users of data breaches and even help guard against phishing attacks by not autofilling passwords into suspected phishing sites.
Show more
How do I set up a password manager?
After signing up for a password manager, you'll be prompted to create a master password. Your master password should be a strong password or passphrase that you can remember but haven't used for any other logins. The master password is the one password you need to access your password manager vault. The next step is to download the app or browser extension to the devices you plan to use the service on. You can also opt to use the web-based user interface if you prefer (if offered by the service you choose).Once you've signed up and gotten acquainted with the app, start adding passwords and other vault items you want to keep secure. If you have passwords stored in a web browser or other password manager, you can easily import them to the new password manager. You also can manually enter the login credentials, or you can have your password manager automatically save your credentials when you log into one of your online accounts. Once you've got your passwords saved, you can use your password manager to autofill the login credentials for the accounts you have stored in your vault.
Show more
Can a password manager be hacked?
Password managers are extremely attractive targets for cybercriminals -- and yes, they can be hacked. All of the password managers listed above operate on a zero-knowledge approach to password management, meaning that not even the company storing your vault data can decrypt the information contained within. Only the user can decrypt and access their vault. Similarly, the password managers featured above don't have access to your master password. All of this makes it difficult for an attacker to gain access to the passwords and other items in your vault. In the case of the 2022 LastPass breach, attackers were able to steal encrypted user vaults. So all the attacker would need to do is crack the master password for a stolen vault to access everything inside, which would be an easy task if the master password is weak. The best way to protect your data in case of a similar breach is to create a strong master password.
Show more
What makes for a secure password?
A strong password should ideally be a minimum of 12 characters. You can also create passphrases that consist of randomly strung-together words. The best password managers offer customizable password generators that you can use to create truly random passwords and passphrases based on the criteria you select. The longer and more complex the password or passphrase, the better.
Show more
Should I use a free password manager?
There are a few legitimate free password manager options for anyone who wants to securely store their passwords without paying a dime. Bitwarden is CNET's recommendation for the best free password manager. NordPass is another solid option. If you're more technically inclined, you can go with KeePass, which is free and unlimited but not as easy to use as many others. If you want all the bells and whistles included in a premium, paid password manager, there are some budget-friendly options priced between $10 and $30 per year.
Show more
Should I no longer use LastPass?
LastPass is one of the most well-known and popular password managers on the market. In light of its lengthy history of security incidents -- including the data breach at the end of 2022 in which an "unauthorized party" stole customer account information and sensitive vault data -- CNET can't in good conscience recommend LastPass to our readers.The company says it’s since boosted security, but the alarming nature of that latest data breach has severely undermined trust in LastPass products.CNET will conduct a thorough review of the service in the future, after which we will reevaluate whether LastPass should return to our list of best password managers. In the meantime, you can use any of the password managers featured above.
Show more
About the Author
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer
Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars.
Read full bio
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.