Left the US to Live in Japan; Loved It but Left After 5 Years - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Travel
I left the US to live in Japan. While I loved my life there, I moved away after 5 years.
Essay by
Ryan Cole
Ryan Cole, center, with friends carrying a mikoshi — a portable shrine — during a festival in Yorii, Japan.
Courtesy of Ryan Cole
2025-09-24T13:03:03Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Fresh out of college, I took some time to live the ski bum life in Vail, Colorado.
Then, I moved to Japan, where I taught English to students.
Japan is a wonderful place with friendly people, but I couldn't live there forever.
"I can't believe they pay you to do this!"
I'd hear that a few times a week, usually on a sunset tour after riding snowmobiles to the top of Vail Mountain in Colorado. Looking out over the white-turning-pink peaks of the Rocky Mountains, I'd agree — I couldn't believe I was getting paid for this, either.Our tours, run by Vail's Adventure Ridge arm, were on the actual ski mountain itself. We couldn't work while the mountain was open. I was free to hit the slopes all day, grab some heavily discounted food, set up the snowmobiles around 2:30 p.m., and then help lead three tours a day up the mountain.
I was making good money. In addition to a salary of a few bucks over minimum wage, we'd average 10 snowmobiles per tour and $20 tips per snowmobile. That was split between the lead and tail guide, with the tail guide — me — getting 20% or about $120 a day.For a kid fresh out of college with wads of cash coming in every day and living in company housing, I felt rich. That said, Vail was always supposed to be a temporary breather, a gap year of sorts, to save up money to achieve my real goal: moving to Japan.I moved to Japan in 2001
Toyokuni Shrine, a few blocks from Cole's Kyoto apartment.
Courtesy of Ryan Cole
I wanted to experience being a foreigner, an immigrant. I wanted to witness the melding of Eastern and Western thought. Plus, I'd already lived in Europe and visited South America — Asia seemed like the next spot I should hit.
When I got to Japan, the experience was something like this: You know how you can have a food item all your life, and then one day you happen upon a version of it that is so good, so superior, it becomes the Platonic ideal, and all others feel like cheap imitations? My life in Japan was a bit like that.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
I discovered the US wasn't as technologically advanced as I thought. In Japan, I had a camera on my phone years before my stateside friends. I could pay for things using my phone a couple of decades before it became commonplace in the US.The trains were faster and on time. The streets were cleaner. The cities felt safer. And everywhere I went, the people I met were welcoming and friendly.
For example, when I lived there more than 20 years ago, before everyone had easy access to GPS, I could strike up a conversation by pulling out a map on a street corner. Within minutes, someone would offer to help.I felt welcomed in Japan, but there was a limit
A famous rock garden at Ryōan-ji temple in Kyoto.
Courtesy of Ryan Cole
My first job was teaching English in Fukushima. Within my first year, I was invited to my first Japanese wedding and got my first house invite. By year three, after moving to Kyoto, I had so many friends I could barely find free time.One family invited me over every Sunday to teach their children English for an hour, paying about $100 per session. Their house doubled as a public izakaya (Japanese pub) in the front, and after the lesson, we'd all sit at the bar, where the mamasan (female manager) would serve a new Japanese dish I hadn't tried yet.
I encountered another couple while walking around my neighborhood. I ended up teaching them English, but within a few sessions, they were taking me to some of the best restaurants in town. They introduced me to a meal entirely made of fugu, or blowfish. We went to a turtle soup restaurant called Daiichi that still used the same unwashed bowls from the 1600s, each meal adding seasoning.Despite the welcoming people I met along the way, I had to learn Japan's cultural rules and norms through observation, not instruction. If a 4-year-old Japanese child stuck their chopsticks standing upright into their rice, they'd most likely be scolded since that's how offerings are made to the dead during funerals, and it's considered taboo outside this custom. If I made the same mistake, no one would comment.Of course, I could ask my Japanese friends the right way to do things, and they'd gently tell me every faux pas I'd made that day.
I cherish the five years I lived in JapanI'd do it all over again if I could. Life in Japan was comfortable, full of culture, and rich in history. While I wanted to see what life would be like completely untethered from home, it's hard to live that way perpetually.And in Japan, as wonderful a place as it was, and as much as I miss it and would leap at the chance to return, I always felt like a visitor. The more comfortable I got, the more I was reminded.So back into the world I went — leaving Japan for places both new and old. My next stop found me living in Chiang Mai, Thailand — one of the few places I could afford on the salary of a fledgling freelance writer. I don't regret that either.
Sometimes, I wonder how life would have turned out if I'd never given up my ski bum life and still counted the days by sunsets.
Recommended video
Essay
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account