German and Swedish jets intercept Russian military plane over Baltic Sea : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
German and Swedish jets intercept Russian military plane over Baltic Sea This was the latest event after a series of incursions by Russian military aircraft into NATO airspace in September, leading to heightened tensions between NATO and Russia.
Europe
German and Swedish jets intercept Russian military plane over Baltic Sea
September 21, 20258:12 PM ET
Fatma Tanis
A German Eurofighter Typhoon jet performs during an exhibition flight demonstration in Le Bourget, north of Paris, on June 18. Eurofighters were used in intercepting the Russian plane.
Julien De Rosa/AFP via Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Julien De Rosa/AFP via Getty Images
German and Swedish fighter jets were scrambled to intercept a Russian reconnaissance plane that entered neutral airspace over the Baltic Sea on Sunday morning, officials from Germany and Sweden said. German officials said NATO ordered Germany's "quick reaction alert force" to investigate an unidentified aircraft flying without a plan or radio contact. "The aircraft turned out to be a Russian IL-20M reconnaissance plane. After visually identifying it, the Bundeswehr [German military] handed over the escort to our Swedish NATO partners @SwedenNato and returned to Rostock-Laage," Germany's delegation to NATO said in a post on X.
Sponsor Message
Sweden's air force said its fighters were "identifying and monitoring a Russian IL-20 reconnaissance aircraft in international airspace."
Interview highlights
A former diplomat says Russian drone incursion into Poland was intentional
This was the latest event after a series of incursions by Russian military aircraft into NATO airspace in September, leading to heightened tensions between NATO and Russia. On Friday, Estonia said three Russian MiG-31 fighter jets entered its airspace without permission and remained there for a total of 12 minutes. Estonian Prime Minister Kristen Michal invoked NATO's Article 4, which allows NATO members to hold consultations with the alliance when any state believes it is under threat. Estonia also summoned Moscow's chargé d'affaires in protest, but Russia's Ministry of Defense denied the allegation that it had violated Estonian airspace. President Trump was asked about the incident by reporters on Friday. "Well, I don't love it. I don't love it when that happens. Could be big trouble," Trump said. NATO's Article 4 was also triggered days earlier by Poland after more than a dozen Russian drones arrived in Polish airspace on Sept. 10, leading Poland to shoot down some of them. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk called the event "the closest we have been to open conflict since World War II." In another incident, on Sept. 14, Romania reported that a Russian drone had breached its airspace. Russia claimed without evidence that the incident was a provocation by Ukraine.
Sponsor Message
Hanno Pevkur, Estonia's minister of defense, said in an interview with Estonia's public broadcaster ERR that NATO had demonstrated that it can effectively respond and use force, if necessary, against violations by Russia. "This is exactly what Russia wants — to divert our attention away from helping Ukraine, and to focus on our own backyard. That has been one of Russia's strategic aims: To get the West to mind its own business while Russia deals with Ukraine. That is a key goal behind these kinds of provocations," Pevkur said.
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor