Introduction
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Harmonized Health Facility Assessment (HHFA)
Home/
Data/
Data collection tools/
Introduction
Introduction
The Harmonized Health Facility Assessment (HHFA) is a comprehensive health facility survey that assesses the availability of health facility services and the capacities of
facilities to provide services at required standards of quality.Availability and quality of health services are integral to strong primary health care and universal health coverage and contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals. HHFA data can support evidence-based decision-making in health sector reviews,
planning, management and policy making. Based on global service standards and developed through multi-stakeholder collaboration, the HHFA builds on the WHO Service Availability and Readiness Assessment (SARA) as well as other global health facility
survey tools and indicator lists. The HHFA is a key product of the Health Data Collaborative (HDC).The HHFA includes four modules: 1. Service availability, 2. Service readiness, 3. Quality of care, and 4. Management and finance.Countries can choose to implement all or only some of the modules. Core and additional questions allow further flexibility. HHFA implementation requires facility visits to collect data through key informant interviews, observation and/or record reviews.
The survey can be carried out as a representative sample of facilities or as a census of all facilities.
IntroductionQuick guideComprehensive guideData manager guideCSPro electronic data collection toolQuestionnairesIndicator inventoryData analysis platformTrainingHHFA global archive
The HHFA resource package
The HHFA resource package provides countries with a comprehensive set of downloadable guidance and tools for adapting, planning and implementing a HHFA. Click on the links below to access to the resources.
HHFA quick guideThe quick guide is a summarized version of the comprehensive guide, providing a rapid overview of the key HHFA concepts.
HHFA comprehensive guide The comprehensive guide describes the HHFA background, rationale, methods and tools, and provides step-by-step guidance for survey planning, implementation, data analysis, interpretation and communication.
HHFA questionnairesQuestionnaires are provided in “stand-alone” and “combined” formats. Stand-alone questionnaires are available for each module. Combined questionnaires integrate the questions from the Availability, Readiness and/or Management and
finance modules. Questionnaires can be adapted to the country context.
HHFA CSPro electronic data collection toolThe questionnaires are programmed into a CSPro electronic data collection tool that is used on tablets or mobile phones to collect data in facilities. The tool enables countries to select the questionnaires and questions they want to implement and to
adapt the tool to the country context.
HHFA data manager guideThe data manager guide explains how to configure and adapt the CSPro tool to the country context and provides guidance for survey data management and data cleaning processes.
HHFA indicator inventoryAn online platform displays all the HHFA indicators, including the survey questions and code needed to calculate each indicator. The inventory can also be downloaded as an Excel document. An indicator tabulation plan can be generated from the indicator
platform.
HHFA data analysis platformAfter export from the CSPro tool, the HHFA data can be uploaded to a comprehensive online data analysis platform that automatically calculates the HHFA indicators and produces standard tables, graphs and a report outline. The data analysis platform can
also be configured to country needs.
HHFA training resourcesOpenWHO eLearning courses include: HHFA introduction; Indicators, questionnaires and country adaptation; Data collection training of trainers, Data analysis platform; and Data review, interpretation and communication. Additional resources for country workshops can be downloaded through the eLearning courses. HHFA eLearning courses
HHFA feedback form The HHFA resources require regular updates based on evolving standards and lessons learned through country implementation. The feedback form provides an opportunity for anyone using the tools to help us improve the resource package.
HHFA global archiveHHFA and SARA survey reports will be available for download here. Survey metadata and microdata will be accessible in the future, where authorized by the country.
Publications
10 November 2022
Harmonized health facility assessment (‎HHFA)‎: quick guide
This short guide aims to provide a quick overview of the Harmonized Health Facility Assessment (HHFA).
It summarizes the key technical, planning and implementation...
Download
Read More
9 January 2023
Harmonized health facility assessment (‎HHFA)‎: comprehensive guide
The HHFA Comprehensive guide serves as the main reference document for planning and implementing a country HHFA. This guide will promote understanding...
Download
Read More
12 March 2024
Harmonized health facility assessment (‎HHFA)‎: data manager guide
The Harmonized Health Facility Assessment (HHFA) is a comprehensive, standardized health facility survey that provides objective information on the availability...
Download
Read More
Additional health facility survey resources
Service Availability and Readiness Assessment (SARA)Service Provision Assessment (SPA)Service Delivery Indicators (SDI)Data quality assurance
29 October 2019
Master Facility List Resource Package: guidance for countries wanting to strengthen their Master Facility...
CitationWorld Health Organization. (‎2019)‎. Master
facility list resource package: guidance for countries wanting to
strengthen their master...
Download
Read More
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO