I built a calendar-aware smart home with Home Assistant
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I built a calendar-aware smart home with Home Assistant
By
Joe Rice-Jones
Published 11 hours ago
Maker, meme-r, and unabashed geek, Joe has been writing about technology since starting his career in 2018 at KnowTechie. He's covered everything from Apple to apps and crowdfunding and loves getting to the bottom of complicated topics. In that time, he's also written for SlashGear and numerous corporate clients before finding his home at XDA in the spring of 2023.
He was the kid who took apart every toy to see how it worked, even if it didn't exactly go back together afterward. That's given him a solid background for explaining how complex systems work together, and he promises he's gotten better at the putting things back together stage since then.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
I've been connecting everything I can to my Home Assistant lately, from my BBQ smoker to a small fleet of robotic vacuums. It's excellent for reducing cognitive load, centralizing all your home's needs in one glorious dashboard that you can automate in many ways. But I realized I've been creating more scheduling issues by looking for things to add, when I should have been looking for existing scheduled events to make them better. After integrating
Google Calendar and some specific calendars for various series of events, my smart home is now calendar-aware and can run automations based on calendar events with particular keywords in them, reducing the number of things I need to do for regularly scheduled tasks, like work meetings. Just a few minutes was all I needed to save at least five minutes before every Google Meet event, and that's just the tip of the iceberg.
Integrating Google Calendar was the easy bit
Home Assistant makes it easy to build solid frameworks out
While Home Assistant can use either local or web calendars to trigger automations, my life is pretty much contained inside Google, so Google Calendar is where I started. I've even got calendars for the whole family, and for individual members, so that every event can be scheduled without looking like everything is overlapping on one messy dashboard. To get Google Calendar in Home Assistant requires two things. A client ID and client secret created in the Google Developers Console for the Google Calendar API, and the Google Calendar integration for Home Assistant. The tricky part is finding your way around the GDC, because it's a complicated mess, but the steps in the Home Assistant integration page are correct. I had some issues with setting up an OAuth Client, but creating a new one as a Web Application got things working. Then, I added the Google Calendar integration and put the OAuth Client ID and Client Secret into the pop-up. That gave me a new sidebar option in HA for the Calendar, and a button at the bottom to add new events. Now all I have to do is figure out precisely what sequences of events any given calendar event will trigger.
Credit: Source: Home Assistant
Home Assistant
See at Apple App Store
See at Google Play Store
See at Home Assistant
Expand
Collapse
Deciding who, what, and when to trigger from calendar events was not
This took some thinking about how to ensure the correct events were utilized
Now that Google Calendar is set up, we can use it as a trigger for all kinds of automation. If HASS.Agent is installed on your computer, you can use the calendar events to open programs or send notifications, or anything you can turn into a macro, like changing the ARGB lights in your PC to a different color or to flash, getting your attention about whatever the event is. Or you can use it for internal Home Assistant automations, using the same calendar triggers but to control other devices connected to your HA install. An example of a calendar trigger would be: automation: - alias: "Calendar notification" triggers: - trigger: calendar event: start entity_id: calendar.personal actions: - action: persistent_notification.create data: message: >- Event {{ trigger.calendar_event.summary }} @ {{ trigger.calendar_event.start }} This sends a notification with the title and start time of the event, and will allow multiple events starting at the same time. It's essential to know the limitations of this system, as the integration checks Google Calendar every 15 minutes, so that's the minimum time between events.
Ideas of what to trigger
The tricky part is deciding which calendar events are worth adding automation to. Maybe you
Video meeting automation: I have an automation triggered from keywords like meeting, call, Teams, Zoom, or conference that flashes my smart bulbs 15 minutes before the call so that I can get ready. It also turns off the volume on my Sonos system (if anything is playing), and turns on all the lighting in my office.
HVAC: I have another one that checks for any meetings or events that aren't at our home address, then checks for the presence of our smartphones before turning the HVAC to a more efficient setting based on the time of year. If either of our phones is still at home, the automation won't change the HVAC, so we stay comfortable.
Trash collection: I have a separate calendar that has our refuse, recycling, and bulk trash dates on it, plus any non-standard changes due to holidays. This gets sent to my phone the night before pickup day, as another layer of reminders to put the bins out.
Birthdays: I never miss a birthday now thanks to a birthday calendar for family and friends that reminds me in advance to get presents, cards, or just to wish them a special day.
Home maintenance: Things like smoke alarm tests, battery changes, water tank sediment draining, and more get their own calendar. This currently only notifies me of when they should be done, but I want to add a running checklist so that I have a record of doing each thing when the time has come.
I'm sure I could put a ton more things, but we both work from home, our schedules are fairly simple, and I don't want to add more complexity when unnecessary. I'm sure that as our family needs grow, I'll find more things to add, and see more ways of chaining different smart home devices together off the events calendar.
Making my smart home calendar-aware was eye-opening
Now my smart home is part of the notifications and feedback loop that I use to remember all the tasks that need to be done. And for tasks like those pesky video calls, having Home Assistant set up the environment for the call each time takes a ton of stress away from me, when I'm usually running around trying to get everything ready before the call starts. Having Home Assistant be calendar-aware makes it smarter and able to respond to my family's needs, once I've identified what those needs are and set up handy automations.
Smart Home
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
2 days ago
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with a Raspberry Pi instead of a mini PC
2 days ago
3 automation recipes that move files exactly where they belong
3 days ago
This free Chrome extension solves NotebookLM’s most annoying limitation
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
4 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This self-hosted collaborative markdown editor is our family’s new wiki
5 of my favorite SSH client for Windows
I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.