Robot umpires approved for MLB in 2026 as part of challenge system - ABC News
ABC NewsLiveVideoShowsShopInterest Successfully AddedWe'll notify you here with news aboutTurn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? OffOnStream onRobot umpires approved for MLB in 2026 as part of challenge systemMajor League Baseball’s 11-man competition committee has approved use of the Automated Ball/Strike System in the major leagues in 2026ByRONALD BLUM AP baseball writerSeptember 23, 2025, 1:55 PM3:05FILE - A Trackman device used for the Automated Ball-Strike System is posted on the balcony behind home plate before a spring training baseball game between the Kansas City Royals and the Los Angeles Dodgers, Saturday, Feb. 22, 2025, in Phoenix. (AP Photo/Ashley Landis, file)The Associated PressNEW YORK -- NEW YORK (AP) — Robot umpires are getting called up to the big leagues next season. Major League Baseball's 11-man competition committee on Tuesday approved use of the Automated Ball/Strike System in the major leagues in 2026.Human plate umpires will still call balls and strikes, but teams can challenge two calls per game and get additional appeals in extra innings. Challenges must be made by a pitcher, catcher or batter — signaled by tapping their helmet or cap — and a team retains its challenge if successful. Reviews will be shown as digital graphics on outfield videoboards.New York Yankees outfielder Austin Slater, one of four players on the competition committee, said three voted in favor after getting support from 22 of the 30 teams. All six management reps voted in favor. “I think with any sort of technology, there’s not 100% certainty of the accurateness of the system,” Slater said. “I think the same can be said of umpires. So I think it’s just coming to grips with the impact that technology is going to have and whether or not we were willing to live with that error that was associated with the system, even if the error is very, very miniscule.”Big league umpires call roughly 94% of pitches correctly, according to UmpScorecards.Adding the robot umps is likely to cut down on ejections. MLB said 61.5% of ejections among players, managers and coaches last year were related to balls and strikes, as were 60.3% this season through Sunday. The figures include ejections for derogatory comments, throwing equipment while protesting calls and inappropriate conduct.Yankees manager Aaron Boone, who leads the American League in ejections for the fifth straight year, called the adoption “inevitable.”“Throughout the year, I’ve been a little not totally on board with it or exactly how it’s going to be implemented but it’s going to be here and hopefully that’s a good thing,” he said. "A lot of the things that Major League Baseball has done I think have been really successful in the changes they’ve made and hopefully this is another one of them.”Guardians manager Stephen Vogt said players will have to adjust.“You can like it, dislike it, it doesn’t matter," Vogt said as Cleveland prepared to open a critical three-game series with Detroit. "It’s coming. It’s going to change the game. It’s going to change the game forever.”ABS, which utilizes Hawk-Eye cameras, has been tested in the minor leagues since 2019. The independent Atlantic League trialed the system at its 2019 All-Star Game and MLB installed the technology for that year's Arizona Fall League of top prospects. The ABS was tried at eight of nine ballparks of the Low-A Southeast League in 2021, then moved up to Triple-A in 2022.At Triple-A at the start of the 2023 season, half the games used the robots for ball/strike calls and half had a human making decisions subject to appeals by teams to the ABS.MLB switched Triple-A to an all-challenge system on June 26, 2024, then used the challenge system this year at 13 spring training ballparks hosting 19 teams for a total of 288 exhibition games. Teams won 52.2% of their ball/strike challenges (617 of 1,182).“I love it. I loved it in spring training,” Phillies manager Rob Thomson said. “Not all of the players, but most of the players, if you ask them, they really liked it too. I think it keeps everybody accountable. It keeps everybody on their toes.”At Triple-A this season, the average challenges per game increased to 4.2 from 3.9 through Sunday and the success rate dropped to 49.5% from 50.6%. Defenses were successful in 53.7% of challenges this year and offenses in 45%.Popular ReadsMissing elk hunters were killed by lightning that struck nearby tree: OfficialSep 23, 1:52 PMSpecial election winner in Arizona could be key vote to release Epstein filesSep 23, 11:53 PMWhat Jimmy Kimmel said as he returned to the air after show was preemptedSep 24, 12:18 AMIn the first test at the big league All-Star Game, four of five challenges of plate umpire Dan Iassogna’s calls were successful in July.Teams in Triple-A do not get additional challenges in extra innings. The proposal approved Tuesday included a provision granting teams one additional challenge each inning if they don't have challenges remaining.MLB has experimented with different shapes and interpretations of the strike zone with ABS, including versions that were three-dimensional. Currently, it calls strikes solely based on where the ball crosses the midpoint of the plate, 8.5 inches from the front and the back. The top of the strike zone is 53.5% of batter height and the bottom 27%.“Throughout this process we have worked on deploying the system in a way that’s acceptable to players,” Commissioner Rob Manfred said in a statement. “The strong preference from players for the challenge format over using the technology to call every pitch was a key factor in determining the system we are announcing today.”This will be MLB's first major rule change since sweeping adjustments in 2024. Those included a pitch clock, larger bases, and restrictions on defensive shifts and pitcher disengagements such as pickoff attempts.The challenge system introduces ABS without eliminating pitch framing, a subtle art where catchers use their body and glove to try making borderline pitches look like strikes. Framing has become a critical skill for big league catchers, and there was concern that full-blown ABS would make some strong defensive catchers obsolete.“Unless you have a really good eye ... only getting two (challenges), I think a lot of the borderline ones are going to stay the same,” Rangers catcher Kyle Higashioka said. “So it keeps some of the human element in in the game.”In addition to Slater, the other players on the competition committee are Arizona's Corbin Burnes and Zac Gallen and Seattle's Cal Raleigh, with the Chicago Cubs' Ian Happ at Detroit's Casey Mize as alternates. The union representatives make their decisions based on input from players on the 30 teams.Bill Miller is the umpire representative. The Major League Baseball Umpires Association declined to comment Tuesday, saying its members “are focused on the 2025 season and postseason.”___AP Baseball Writer Stephen Hawkins in Arlington, Texas, and AP freelance writers Larry Fleisher in New York, Anthony SanFilippo in Philadelphia and Tom Withers in Cleveland contributed to this report.___AP MLB: https://apnews.com/hub/MLBRelated TopicsMLBSponsored Content by TaboolaPopular ReadsMissing elk hunters were killed by lightning that struck nearby tree: OfficialSep 23, 1:52 PMSpecial election winner in Arizona could be key vote to release Epstein filesSep 23, 11:53 PMWhat Jimmy Kimmel said as he returned to the air after show was preemptedSep 24, 12:18 AMRyan Routh, would-be Trump assassin, tries to stab himself after being found guiltySep 23, 6:04 PMABC News Live24/7 coverage of breaking news and live eventsABC News NetworkPrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementTerms of UseDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationContact Us © 2025 ABC News