Sex and Love Quizzes and Articles
Reporting To You
X
{title}
{title}
Skip To ContentBuzzFeed HomepageSign InBuzzFeedQuizzesShoppingTrending NewsCelebrityBuzz ChatArcadeQuizzesShoppingArcade Celebrity Trending NewsBuzz Chat Browse links NewslettersThe best of the internet, delivered straight to your inbox!Pop CultureTV & MoviesCelebrityBest of the InternetAnimalsMusicRewindBooksLGBTQQuizzes & GamesArcadeNEW!LatestTrendingFoodLoveTriviaQuiz PartyShowdownShoppingLatestHomeFashionTechBeauty & Personal CarePetsSports & FitnessVideoLatestCocoa ButterMom In ProgressWorth ItUnsolvedMultiplayerPero LikeLifestyleTastyStyleTravelGoodful: WellnessNifty: DIYParentsFoodWeddingsSex And LoveCommunityMake a Quiz or Post!Featured PostsLeaderboardFrom Our PartnersSafe HavenBack to School PrepCollege CurationAboutAbout UsAdvertiseInvestor RelationsJobsEditionUSUKAustraliaCanadaDeutschlandIndiaJapanLatamUS residents can opt out of "sales" of personal data.Do Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationPrivacy SettingsPrivacy Settings
© 2025 BuzzFeed, Inc PressRSSPrivacyConsent PreferencesUser TermsAccessibility StatementAd ChoicesHelpContactSitemapBuzzFeed TastySearch, watch, and cook every single Tasty recipe and video ever — all in one place!BuzzFeed GoodfulSelf care and ideas to help you live a healthier, happier life.HuffPostNews, Politics, Culture, Life, Entertainment, and more. Stories that matter to you.BuzzFeedQuizzesShoppingTrending NewsCelebrityBuzz ChatArcadeQuizzesShoppingArcade Celebrity Trending NewsBuzz Chat
Sex & Love
Sex & Love
All
Tips & Advice
Sex Toys
Bodies & Wellness
Pop Culture
Quizzes
Older Adults Who Never Got Married Revealed The “Myths” About Being Single Later In Life
“I’m in my late 40s and have no regrets about not getting married. Before she passed, my mom told me that I should have gotten married and settled down — but it’s not a lifestyle that fits everyone’s life.”
Quiz
Trending
This Holiday Rom-Com Simulator Will Either End Up With You In Love, Or Alone
Eat your heart out, Hallmark Channel.
Andy Golder
• 5 hours ago
Women Opened Up About Their Struggles In Toxic Relationships, And Their Courage Deserves Recognition
Women, unfortunately, get the short end of the stick.
Kayla Yandoli
• 8 hours ago
Trending
"I Was Completely And Emotionally Drained": Current And Former Sex Workers Are Opening Up About Their Most Shocking Client Encounters
"She said she held it together while she was there, but bawled the whole drive home..."
Carley Suthers
Men Are Sharing The Things That Secretly Bother Them But Are Rarely Talked About, And I Suddenly Have A Tiny Bit More Empathy For Men
"It's very hard to find a woman who is content doing this."
Fabiana Buontempo
Adults Are Revealing The Hilariously Incorrect Sex Facts They Believed As Kids And I'm Literally Crying
"I thought when people said they had sex 'all night,' they genuinely meant it. Like, I thought people just did it for eight hours straight or something."
Alice Lahoda
Divorced Men Reveal The Final Straw In Their Marriages
When it's over, you know.
Brittany Wong
People Who Grew Up With Parents Who "Stayed Together For The Kids" Are Sharing How It Really Turned Out, And These Stories Are Eye-Opening
"My parents did. They are now 80 and still hate each other and are miserable."
Victoria Vouloumanos
People Are Revealing The Unforgivable Things Their Ex-Spouse Did That Led Them To Divorce After Being Married Less Than A Year
"I overheard a conversation my ex-husband was having with his friend. He said he only married me for my money and felt no love."
Ajani Bazile-Dutes
Wives Of 10+ Years Are Confessing What They Wish Their Partners Would Do To Keep The Spark Alive, And It's Actually Really Sad
"Umm, anything would be nice. Physical affection, compliments, planned dates, kissing, listening to me, talking to me about things deeper than his day, doing his share of the mental load..."
Jen Shiori Adams
"I Immediately Felt Sick To My Stomach": 24 "Normal" Habits And Behaviors That Made People Realize Their "Friend" Wasn't Really Their Friend
"If they do it once, they are gonna repeat it."
Megan Liscomb
People Were Completely Obsessed With These Celebrity Couples When They Got Engaged, And Maybe It Was All Because Of The Ring
Putting a ring on it is EVERYTHING in Hollywood.
Michele Bird
People Are Sharing The Professions That Make The Worst Spouses, And Some Of These I Didn't See Coming
Love might be blind, but it can't ignore a brutal schedule.
Brian Galindo
23 Of The Funniest Reasons People Broke Things Off With Their "Friends With Benefits"
"It was almost midnight, and I shouted, 'MY DUOLINGO!' and paused to grab my phone."
Jake Farrington
People Who Slept With Someone They Weren't Supposed To Are Revealing How It Went Down, And I'm Speechless
"We're still hooking up now. His wife is awful to him, so I love that he can find comfort in this when life gets rough."
Ajani Bazile-Dutes
19 Catfish Stories That Will Either Rattle You To Your Core, Or Make You Pee Your Pants Laughing
"I discovered my friend was a catfish when he became someone else's catfish-ee." It's like catfish Inception!"
Jake Farrington
Men Who Went On A First Date Bluntly Shared Why They Never Went On A Second, And Boy, My Brain Does Not Compute What I've Just Read
"She said she needed to stop at the drug store to pick up something... We walked to the pharmacy, where she picked up..."
Raven Ishak
The Internet Is Absolutely Melting Down Over This Guy Who Might Go To His Sister's Wedding Without His Wife
"She said the wedding would be ruined if my wife came. I was really surprised and sort of shocked when she told me that."
Michaela Bramwell
My Husband Cheated On Me — And I Stayed. Here's Why.
"When a stranger reached out proffering a photo album of incriminating screenshots ― a Tinder profile showcasing my husband’s smiling face, in which he claimed he was 'slightly married,' a series of graphic sexual text messages, and time logs of hourlong phone conversations ― I realized that these earlier claims weren’t exaggerated or relegated to a sensitive few."
Melissa Gabso
Married Women Are Sharing The Things Their Husbands Do That Make Them Feel Like They Won The Lottery, And It’s So Sweet And Wholesome I Think I Might Explode
"Every time I turned the shower on, he’d immediately go and pop a towel and fresh clothes in the dryer and listen for me to turn the shower off and bring me a warm towel and clothes to change into. He died eight years ago, and I still cry getting in and out of the shower."
Conshea Brown
25 Juicy Porn Sex Acts That Are Really, Really, Really, Really, Really, Really, Really, Really Effective
Let's get nasty.
Kayla Yandoli
Women Are Sharing How They "Accidentally" Found Out Their Husbands Were Cheating, And Holy Moly
"Got an email sent to my work email that said: 'Sorry, I didn’t know he was married.'"
Lauren Garafano
Dating In 2025 Is Hell On Earth, And If You Don't Believe Me, Prepare To Be Soooooooo Humbled
If you feel like giving up on dating...you're not alone.
Hannah Dobrogosz
3 Months Ago, I Was Homeless. Then I Joined OnlyFans — And My Life Changed.
"When I finish streaming, I’m usually smiling … not because I’m faking it, but because I’m proud."
Violet Coal
18 Women Are Sharing The Unbelievable Things They Did After Finding Out Their Partner Was Cheating
"My first girlfriend, after coming out, started dating the woman she cheated on me with the day after we broke up. A month-ish or so later, I slept with both of them, separately, making them cheat on each other with me."
Conshea Brown
People Are Confessing Their Wildest One-Night Stand Stories, And My Jaw Hit The Floor HARD
"After hooking up, she stole his car, picked up her boyfriend from jail, and left the state."
Ajani Bazile-Dutes
"It Will Probably Haunt Me For A Long Time": 16 Shocking Reasons Divorced People Secretly Regret Ending Their Marriage
"We divorced over 30 years ago, and although I eventually remarried and had children, my heart still aches for her."
Liz Richardson
Women Are Sharing The Signs That A Man Is Good In Bed, And They’re Not What You'd Think
"The kissing is the tell for me. Men who love kissing and don’t rush it see how it’s a sensual activity, and not just a button they have to press to get in your panties."
Julia Corrigan
20 Sex Stories That Are So, So, So Embarrassing, Like You Couldn't Waterboard These Out Of Me
Grateful to these people for sharing. Even more grateful that these things didn't happen to me.
Jake Farrington
"There's Nothing More Annoying": Men Are Revealing The Hardest Thing To Explain To Women, And Boy, There's A Lot Going On Here
"That the shower doesn't need to be that f*cking hot."
Raven Ishak
Older Women Who Never Got Married Are Revealing What It's Like To Be Single Later In Life
"I am 61 and have never been married or had children. My older single female friends are really happy, inspired people. The men…not so much. They're just angry."
Liz Richardson
The Internet Is Sharing Their Dirtiest Life Hacks, And Honestly I'm Both Shocked And Taking Notes
Why didn't I think of that...
Caroline Cahill
19 Formerly Married Men Are Revealing How They "Accidentally" Found Out Their Wives Were Cheating On Them, And Wow
"I caught my ex thanks to Pokémon Go, of all things."
Lauren Garafano
19 "Bachelor In Paradise" Couples And Whether Or Not They Are Still Together Now
Sometimes sparks fly, sometimes they fizzle.
Michele Bird
Women Are Sharing What Really Happened When Rich Men Flew Them Out After Sliding Into Their DMs, And Oooooof, Y'all Are Making Me Nervous
"He didn't want to be seen in public with me or take me on a 'nicer' date in his hometown."
Hannah Dobrogosz
A Divorced Woman Just Brought Up The Concept Of “Mankeeping” For Married Women, And The Responses Reveal A Dark And Frustrating Pattern
Women are tired. So, so tired.
Jenna Guillaume
People Are Sharing Sex Stories Where Their Partner Had To Tell Them "Actually, This Is Not Normal"
"Having sex when you don't really want to to keep the peace in your relationship. Imagine my shock when my now-husband asked, 'What's wrong?' And I finally told him I wasn't really feeling like it that day, but I didn't want him to get upset if I said no. He was appalled. He said to me, 'If you don't want to, I don't want to.'"
Jake Farrington
19 "Man-Child" Boyfriends And Husbands Who Finally Got Kicked To The Curb
"I had planned on marrying this dude! So glad I dodged that bullet."
Hannah Dobrogosz
41 First Date Flops That Were So Miserable And Bad, A Second Date Was Never, Ever, Ever Even On The Table
"He asked for our server's Snapchat in front of me. Then he cut the date short so he could go to the gym."
Hannah Dobrogosz
Women Are Revealing The Exact Moment They Clocked Their Own Internalized Misogyny, And I'm Cringing With Recognition
"I used to give dirty looks to women who were better looking than I was, until I realized I was just jealous — and that was such a dumb reason to dislike someone."
Victoria Vouloumanos
Women Are Sharing The Things That Men Think They Like, But Are Actually Huuuuuuge Turn-Offs
"Not understanding basic boundaries... He goes like, 'I know girls like it when it's forceful.' I think he thought being dominant and forceful were the same."
haein_jung
Grooms Are Revealing The "Unexpected" Reasons They Called Off Their Weddings And Never Looked Back
"I immediately broke off the engagement and walked away. There was no coming back from that."
Liz Richardson
22 Ways Sex In Real Life Is NOTHING Like Porn Or Movies — We Laugh Because It's Painfully True
"When my wife and I first got together, it seemed that every time we moved, I was on her hair. After a while, I learned how to work it, but nothing killed the mood like, 'Mmhhmm, yeah...ow! Ow! Ow! My hair!' You never see that in movies."
Jake Farrington
This Is What Harms Married People's Happiness The Most, Therapists Say
These are some of the biggest hazards to a strong and satisfying long-term relationship.
Kelsey Borresen
19 People Who Slept With Taken Men Or Women Are Explaining Why They Did It, And The Stories Are Sooooo Juicy
"It's not my job to keep them pure and faithful. If it wasn’t me, it probably would’ve been someone else. Just sex. We both understood that."
Lauren Garafano
People Who "Accidentally" Caught Their Spouses Cheating Are Exposing What Happened, And My Jaw Is On The Floor For Some Of These
"I opened one of the cabinets and found hundreds of computer printouts with online flirting, plans for hookups, and compliments on his tongue work."
Lauren Garafano
Experts Are Sharing The One Huge Reason That Straight Women Say They're Done Dating Men, And It Has A Name
"Sara, 21, recalled sitting on her bed while her boyfriend begged her to hear him out. He wasn’t remorseful for cheating; he just no longer wanted to sit with his shame."
Alice Lassman
Domestic Abuse Survivors Are Revealing The First Things Their Partner Did Early In The Relationship That Indicated They Were Abusive, And This Is So, So Important
"It starts off slow, and then all of a sudden, you feel responsible for their emotions."
Raven Ishak
Women Pay Me To Teach Them How To Give Great Head. (And Their Boyfriends Thank Me.)
"Over the past 20 years, I’ve taught women (and a few men) how to give world-class head while also becoming self-empowered and having a blast."
Bill McKinley
"I Didn't Find Out Until The Baby Was A Year Old": People Are Sharing How They Discovered Their Partners Were Cheating On Them, And I'm In Disbelief
"While I was tucking my kid in bed one night, she said, 'I don't want a new daddy; I love this daddy.' I dug around and found it all out."
Dannica Ramirez
Women Are Sharing The Infuriating Final Straws That Inspired Them To Dump Their Man-Child Partners For Good, And OMFG, I'm About To Start Breathing Fire
"I saw my future flash before my eyes, and it looked a lot like him sprawled on the couch with the house a mess."
Hannah Dobrogosz
23 Awkward Sex Truths That Have Me Wheezing Because Literally No One Tells You This Stuff Before You Do It
"When you're so close together that you're now basically stuck together with sweat and having to pull yourself apart after."
Lauren Garafano
"It Requires Infinitely More Trust Than Sex": People Are Revealing The Platonic Acts That They Find Incredibly Intimate, And I'm Curious If You Agree
"It happened to me recently, and I still can’t get over it."
Megan Liscomb
"Now, I Just Don't Give A F—k": I'm Currently On My Feet Applauding These 25 Single Women Who Are Sharing How They've Upped Their Dating Standards
"I stopped caring about 'tall, dark, and mysterious,' and started caring about 'emotionally available, has a steady job, and owns a plunger.'"
Kelley Greene
People Are Sharing The Most Embarrassing Thing That Happened To Them During Sex, And I'm Trying Not To Laugh Out Loud
"I gagged on the D and peed."
Dannica Ramirez
Women Are Calling Out The "Societal Standards" They Stopped Following After Years Of Doing Them, And I Love This Energy
"I just stopped some years ago, and the world didn't end."
Raven Ishak
27 Trulyyyy Horrible Dating Stories That Are So Catastrophic They Should Be Studied By Scientists
It's hard out there.
Kayla Yandoli
People Whose Partners Got VERY Rich While They Were Together Are Sharing How It Changed Things, And All I Can Say Is Wow
"I helped my boyfriend through law school. After he graduated, he became a very successful partner and broke up with me for a much prettier girl."
Victoria Vouloumanos
People Are Revealing The Pettiest Reason They Stopped Hooking Up With Someone, And Honestly, Some Of These Reasons Are Valid
And just like that, what felt so promising quickly turns into a total dealbreaker.
Brian Galindo
"My Dad Would Never Forgive My Husband": 16 Deep, Dark Secrets That People Will Never, EVER Tell Their Family Members
"My husband cheated on me while on a work trip when I was eight months pregnant with our first child..."
Dannica Ramirez
People Are Revealing "Overlooked" Signs That A Marriage Won't Last, And It's Shocking
"When there are subtle laughs and chuckles during a serious (heated) conversation, blowing off everything their partner feels as a 'them' problem. I saw this between my parents before they divorced."
Liz Richardson
Women Over 40 Are Admitting The Hilariously Specific Things They Need In A Partner, And I'm Honestly So Here For It
"If they don’t learn my coffee order within a few dates, they don’t care about learning about me."
Conshea Brown
People Who Slept With Someone They Weren't Supposed To Are Revealing How It Went Down, And I Can't Believe What I Read
"Well, I slept with my 'first cousin' at my grandmother’s funeral. But it’s okay because my mom and her sister were both adopted from an orphanage, so we aren’t actually blood-related."
Ajani Bazile-Dutes
People Who Had Sex With Their Ex's Sibling Revealed How It All Went Down, And Oh...My God
"My brother stole my girlfriend and married her. I had no interest in marrying her."
Lauren Garafano
"I Am In My Late 40s, And I Have Endured This My Entire Life": 11 "Truths" Women Believe Men Need To Hear About Women
"It is constant and draining, and all she wants is not to have to do this..."
Raven Ishak
27 People Are Sharing Their Long-Term Relationship Advice, And These Answers Are So Raw And Real
"Love is a choice you make every single day. Once you surrender that agency to 'fate,' you abandon the mutual effort that makes a relationship truly meaningful."
haein_jung
People Confessed Some Trulyyyyy Titillating Sex Secrets They Just Couldn't Hold In Any Longer
And I thought my sex life made people speechless...
Kayla Yandoli
Women Are Sharing The Things In Dating They Simply Won’t Put Up With Anymore, And Honestly, Good For Them
"Being treated like I was lucky to have them. Now, I know I’m the prize."
haein_jung
18 Devastating "Truth Bombs" That Completely Destroyed Relationships Forever
"He got so tangled up in his lies that he was lying about his lies."
Hannah Dobrogosz
Experts Are Sharing What It Means When Couples Constantly Post About Each Other On Social Media, And It Actually Makes A Lot Of Sense
When people felt more insecure about their partner’s feelings, they tended to make their relationships visible.
Brittany Wong
After 15 Years, Our Marriage Felt Stale. Then My Wife And I Discovered A Sexy Solution.
"No one ever talks about how awkward and uncomfortable it can be to suggest something new with someone you’ve been intimate with for over a decade..."
Offer Yehudai
29 Women Shared The Subtle "Red Flags" That Revealed Their Romantic Partners Were Misogynistic, And If These Resonate, Please For The Love Of God Break Up With Them, I Am Begging
"I tried talking to my ex about some issues that we face as women that men don’t, and he explained to me that none of that could be real, because he never experienced it. I looked at him and asked if he understood what he just said, and he was genuinely confused."
Angelica Martinez
20 People With Extramarital Affair Stories So Salacious, They Should All Be Turned Into Lifetime Movies Immediately
"I know she and I will always love each other and take time to be together when we can. We are great together, but we will never really be a couple."
Mychal Thompson
29 Wild Celeb Sex Confessions That Make Me Wish We All Knew Less About Each Other
Fran Drescher admitted that she has a "rotation" of friends with benefits.
Lauren Garafano
19 People Who Discovered Their Partner Was Actually In A Relationship Are Sharing How Everything Unraveled
"Turns out she was telling him she was going to hang out with her best friend when she was really coming to see me or go on dates with me."
Hannah Dobrogosz
21 Major Takeaways From People After Having Threesomes Or Other Group Sex
"Men, for all the talk they are, are actually quite shy and self-conscious when they have to perform in front of one of their friends."
Hannah Dobrogosz
21 People Revealed Why They Decided To Cheat On Their Partners And My Jaw Is On The Floor
"I was with her for nearly six years, but I knew I never really loved her."
Lauren Garafano
15 Behaviors People Secretly Changed Because They Were Quietly Planning To Leave Their Relationship, And This Was Enlightening
"You start wishing you didnt have feelings for the person anymore so you wouldn't do this..."
Raven Ishak
People Are Sharing The Pettiest Reasons They Dumped Someone, And It's Actually Pretty Funny
"I once broke up with a guy because I couldn't stand his laugh. And humor is my biggest turn-on! But his laugh was my biggest turn-off."
Ajani Bazile-Dutes
People Who Had Sex With Their Ex's Sibling Are Revealing What Happened, And Holy Crap
"I'm a twin, and my wife briefly dated my brother before me."
Lauren Garafano
"After That, I NEVER Used My Card Again Whilst Dating": People Are Revealing The Dating Safety Tips They Swear By
"I’ve had way too many guys refuse to meet at a public place for the first meeting. That’s an instant red flag and block. It’s a simple request, and if they can’t respect my wishes to meet in public, then they definitely won’t be respectful of me down the road on other things."
Angelica Martinez
17 Times Dating Taught People To Either Be Single For The Rest Of Their Lives, Or Buy An Engagement Ring
"Dating me was like a career accelerator."
Morgan Murrell
"It Always Ends In Misery": People Are Calling Out The Subtle Relationship Mistakes Many Of Us Don't Even Realize We're Making
"I think many people underestimate how much that matters."
Megan Liscomb
30 Things People Put In Their Dating Profiles That Are Instant Dealbreakers For A Lot Of Others
"It's a red flag when every single pic of the guy on his profile is of him wearing sunglasses. That gives me vibes of someone who has a lot to hide, doesn't want to present their true self, and is not very genuine when interacting."
Ajani Bazile-Dutes
People Are Sharing The Things That Suck About Being Married — And You Don't Realize Until After You've Tied The Knot
"I miss sleeping alone. My husband tosses and turns to the point where he pulls the pillows I'm sleeping on out from underneath my head."
Kayla Yandoli
27 Jaw-Dropping Confessions That People Really Should Have Kept To Themselves
"I can't believe they just told me that!"
Mike Spohr
31 Stories From People Who Dated Sex Workers, Adult Film Stars, And OnlyFans Creators
"So yeah, I get to say the first time I ever met my wife was filming her having sex with another guy."
Hannah Marder
27 Sexual Awakenings Inspired By TV And Movies
"Something about the ponytail and ear piercing had me obsessed for years."
Hannah Dobrogosz
Here's Why Gen Z Is So, So Disapproving Of Couples With Age Differences
Is an 18-year-old dating a 25-year-old problematic? Some Gen Zers think so.
Brittany Wong
40 People Shared The Signs That You're In The Right Relationship — Or A Disaster — And They Made Some Valid Points
"Big red flag: When they have no filter, and don't care about the opinions of others. They overshare, and don't understand boundaries."
Kayla Yandoli
Women Are Calling Out The "Toxic Femininity" Perpetuated By Other Women, And I'm So Glad We're Finally Talking About It
"The first thing that comes to mind is the whole 'I'm just a girl' thing."
Julia Corrigan
People Are Sharing The NSFW Things That Used To Turn Them On Until They Actually Tried Them, And It's A Wild Ride
"Food play. Chocolate sauce and cream get really sticky."
Jenna Guillaume
A Therapist Says These Are The Five Stages Of A Dying Marriage
When a marriage is in decline, it tends to follow a predictable pattern.
Kelsey Borresen
19 Times People Realized They Got A "Shut Up" Ring And Their Partner Didn't Actually Want To Get Married
"I gave him an ultimatum after six years of dating, and after, he said he still didn’t know if he wanted to marry me. He finally proposed, and he asked me how I felt. 'Happy!' I exclaimed. 'You?' I asked. He replied, 'This is a big commitment...' Not the answer you’d want during a proposal."
Liz Richardson
Women Are Revealing The Thoughtful Things Men Did That Made Them Feel Protected, And Every Guy Needs To Read This ASAP
"It was a kind reminder that some men are in fact sensitive to the discomfort and don't hesitate to reach out and keep you safe without being told."
Conshea Brown
Women Who Proposed To Their Boyfriends Are Sharing What Happened After They Got Down On One Knee
"When my parents first got together, my dad told my mum that if in six months she hadn't made a decision about being in a serious relationship with him, he was gone. So six months later, my mum comes back from work on a Friday, throws some rings at my dad, and tells him they're getting married on Sunday."
Kristen Harris
Folks Who Haven't Had Sex With Their Spouse In Years Are Sharing Their Stories, And Their Responses Aren't As Bleak As I Thought They Would Be
"It isn’t the need to orgasm that I miss, it’s the connection and validation."
haein_jung
"Not Everyone Is Going To Find Someone. Prepare Accordingly": Women Are Sharing The Hard Truths About Dating No One Really Talks About
"Dating doesn't always lead to a relationship, but it doesn't mean it was a failure or waste of time. Sometimes dating is just that, and that's fine."
Michele Bird
21 People Who Dated The "Bad Boy" Or "Bad Girl" As Teenagers Are Sharing How (Or If) That Person Changed As An Adult
"Now, he lives with his parents, owns five cats, and collects McDonald's Grimace memorabilia. He's also a teacher at our former school..."
Carley Suthers
"I Should Have Stuck With The Dependable-But-Boring AF Spouse That I Chose First": Divorced People Are Getting Real About Whether Or Not They Regret Divorcing Their Ex
"I miss the convenience and security..."
Krista Torres
Next page >