Charlie Kirk’s assassination galvanizes Republican Party in two key ways : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Charlie Kirk’s assassination galvanizes Republican Party in two key ways Some Republicans have used Charlie Kirk's killing as a call to spiritual revival. Others, including President Trump, have used it to escalate attacks on the left.
Analysis
Politics
After Charlie Kirk's murder, some Republicans talk revival as others seek retribution
September 22, 20255:00 AM ET
Stephen Fowler
President Trump speaks during the memorial service for political activist Charlie Kirk at State Farm Stadium on Sunday in Glendale, Ariz.
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Joe Raedle/Getty Images
For prominent Republicans, the two main reactions to the assassination of Charlie Kirk have been a resolve to continue his conservative political organizing work and, for some, a push to blame — in the words of President Trump — "radical-left lunatics." The contrasting views were most notably on display at the close of Kirk's memorial service in a stadium filled to capacity in Arizona on Sunday, where Kirk's widow, Erika, gave an emotional remembrance grounded in the faith of her husband, who "wanted to save young men, just like the one who took his life." "On the cross, our savior said: 'Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do,'" Kirk said. "That man — that young man — I forgive him. I forgive him because it's what Christ did. And it's what Charlie would do."
Sponsor Message
Kirk went on to say that "the answer to hate is not hate. The answer — we know from the Gospel — is love."
For most of the memorial, Kirk's friends, allies and supporters spoke about the growth of his conservative operation from an idea in 2012 into one of the most influential organizations in modern politics, emphasizing his personal character and a vision rooted in their shared faith for carrying on his work. While President Trump described Kirk as a "missionary with a noble spirit," he said he disagreed with his views on those with different opinions. "He did not hate his opponents, he wanted the best for them," Trump said. "That's where I disagreed with Charlie. I hate my opponent. I don't want the best for them." In the days since Kirk was shot and killed on the campus of Utah Valley University, Kirk's legacy as a youth organizer and evangelizer of conservative politics and conservative Christianity has taken on a new life, with tens of thousands of new requests to create chapters of his Turning Point group on high school and college campuses, the organization says. Erika Kirk is taking over as the leader of Turning Point, and prominent Republican figures like Vice President Vance and broadcaster Tucker Carlson have stepped in to host The Charlie Kirk Show, remembering their friend and vowing to advance his causes.
Sponsor Message
Some see Kirk's death as Democrats' fault Kirk's killing has also led to an escalation of rhetoric and action from the Trump administration and Republican lawmakers who have painted their ideological opponents as radical forces of evil who have harmed the country. On Kirk's podcast last week, Vance said political violence is "not a both-sides problem" and blamed the "incredibly destructive movement of left-wing extremism" for the attack allegedly carried out by a lone shooter. Deputy Chief of Staff Stephen Miller suggested that the federal government would "identify, disrupt, dismantle and destroy" left-wing networks that he blamed without evidence for fomenting violence, and Trump vowed to label the nebulous left-wing "antifa" ideological movement a "major terrorist organization."
Social media is shattering America's understanding of Charlie Kirk's death
On Sunday night, President Trump hailed Kirk as a "martyr," which others like onetime Trump adviser Steve Bannon have echoed. Pro-Trump influencer Chaya Raichik, who runs the "Libs of TikTok" social media account, wrote "THIS IS WAR." And lawmakers like Wisconsin GOP Rep. Derrick Van Orden compared Kirk's killing as a catalyst similar to Sept. 11 and that he would "not allow these leftist scumbags to take my country."
Prominent online voices on the right have called for people who have made social media posts criticizing Kirk or mocking his death to lose their jobs or face investigation, including the vice president telling people to "call them out and, hell, call their employer." The president and Federal Communications Chairman Brendan Carr are facing questions about freedom of speech protections after Carr threatened ABC over remarks made by late night host Jimmy Kimmel in a monologue last week about Kirk's killing. ABC took Kimmel's show off the air in a move some legal experts say is illegal "jawboning," when government officials pressure private companies to suppress speech.
Media
Jimmy Kimmel's suspension shows power of FCC's Brendan Carr
Beyond specific feelings of spiritual resolve or political retribution, Republicans have begun to sour on America's future. A new poll from The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research conducted Sept. 11-15 finds a sharp decline in Republican optimism in the direction of the country, especially among women and young conservatives. Overall, only half of those in the GOP say the country is heading in the right direction, a seismic shift eight months into Trump's return to office, as concerns about political violence, immigration and the economy weigh over Republican-controlled Washington.
President Trump
Charlie Kirk
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor