Shopping this October Prime Day? Here's how to use Amazon's tools to find the best deals | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Shopping this October Prime Day? Here's how to use Amazon's tools to find the best deals
Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale starts Oct. 7. Here are the tools you already have as a Prime member to make early holiday shopping a breeze.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 2:00 a.m. PT
Maria Diaz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days event returns Oct. 7-8, essentially the kick-off to the 2025 holiday shopping season. Prime shoppers can expect savings across various categories including beauty, electronics, seasonal essentials, must-have gifts, and toys, according to the e-commerce giant. You can also anticipate savings on brands like Samsung, LG, Sonos, and Dyson.Also: Worried about rising tech prices? Try these 5 easy ways to shop smarter right nowIf you're gearing up to shop on Prime Day in a couple weeks, make sure you know how to use Amazon's internal tools to make your experience easier and more seamless. Plus, these handy features are all free with a Prime membership, so no surprise charges are headed your way -- except maybe some holiday gifts. Shop early Prime Day deals5 free Prime tools to use this Prime Day RufusLast September, Amazon unveiled Rufus, its AI shopping assistant, to U.S. customers on desktop and in the Amazon app. Rufus is designed to use generative AI to power a conversational shopping experience. It aims to helps customers save time and make more informed purchase decisions by answering questions on various shopping needs and products. During your Prime Day prep, Rufus can help you source gifts for everyone on your list, plan meals, and find dozens of items such as indoor and outdoor decor, to help you celebrate the holiday season. Also: Amazon's AI shopping assistant Rufus rolls out to all U.S. customersI like using Rufus as a jumping-off point for my holiday shopping, checking out recommendations for broader categories to help narrow my search. I also enjoy using it to help with menial tasks like checking in on orders and deliveries. The AI summaries are a great place to start if you're researching a product you want to purchase in the coming weeks. They can help you better understand what you're looking for in an item or other concerns you may wish to investigate further.
The Rufus button via Amazon on desktop.  Screenshot by Kayla Solino/ZDNETLooking for Rufus? To find Rufus, make sure you've updated your Amazon Shopping app to the latest version and then tap the Rufus icon. It looks like some chat bubbles with a sort of sparkle on the navigation bar at the bottom of the screen. If you're on a desktop, Rufus is found by clicking the Rufus button in the top-left of the Amazon website's navigation bar2. Amazon LensAmazon Lens is not a new tool, but it is a cool one. Lens is a visual search tool that makes it easy to locate products. Live Lens, the latest iteration that launched in September, takes it one step further. You can scan products, find real-time matches in a carousel, and find insights and answers via Live Lens.
Watch Amazon Lens in action.  Maria Diaz/ZDNETLive Lens is beneficial if you're shopping both brick-and-mortar and online stores. You can scan a product in-store to see if Amazon is carrying it for a better deal or locate similar options. Also: This Amazon Lens upgrade lets you scan a product IRL and find it online in one clickRufus is also integrated into visual search tool, so you'll be offered suggestions and summaries without leaving the Lens Live camera view. Although the Lens tools have differences, they're both incredibly helpful if you're shopping for a large number of people this holiday season. To activate Live Lens, make sure you're updated to the latest version of Amazon on iOS or Android. Then find the camera icon in the search bar and tap it to launch Lens. Lastly, choose your search method: Live scan, take a photo, and upload an image. 3. Alexa+Alexa+ is Amazon's updated take on the popular Alexa digital assistant, which can help you plan your shopping. At the moment, Alexa+, formally unveiled earlier this year, is available via early access to those with an Echo Show 8, 15, or 21. It is also compatible with the Echo Show 5, 8, 10, 15, and 21. After the early access period ends, Alexa+ will be a free Prime benefit or available to non-Prime customers for $20 per month. Also: Everything you need to know about Alexa+, Amazon's new generative AI assistantIf you are an Alexa+ early access customer, you can use it to track deals on products in your wish list, cart, or save for later section. Plus, Alexa+ is smarter. It can carry fluid conversations, switch between topics, remember your questions, and perform continuously without needing "Alexa" before each request. It's like having your own personal shopper in the comfort of your home, and a great way to partially offload the mental work of holiday shopping. Alexa+ is only available via select early access, but you can sign up for notifications when Alexa+ becomes available to you. 4. ListsSanta loves a list, and so does Amazon. Lists allow you to organize and track all of your shopping, and Buy Again makes it easy to find items you've already purchased to track for repurchase. I love organizing lists for individuals I am shopping for, and I do the same for projects, events, and other tasks.
An Amazon wishlist.  Maria Diaz/ZDNETI recently began building a house, so Lists has become a highly used tool for sorting future purchases for areas like outdoor, kitchen, and living. To start a list, at the top right of your desktop screen, click Account & Lists > Create a list. On the mobile app, toggle to the icon that looks like a person, and click Lists at the top of the screen.5. Payment options This is a simple feature that will save you a ton of time. Make sure to update your payment options on your Amazon account to remove expired or unused cards and add current ones. Also, confirm your shipping address and update any supplemental information. Also: 3 money-saving tricks I use every time I shop online - and you should tooThis makes it easy to check out quickly if you're trying to snag a deal, but it also ensures you won't second-guess payment or shipping when you're in the thick of things. Plus, with Amazon Pay accepted as an option at other retailers, you may be able to save yourself time elsewhere. You can edit your payment options on Amazon by navigating to Account > Your Payments.FAQs
When is October Prime Day? Prime Day begins on Oct. 7 at 12:01 a.m. PDT and runs through Oct. 8 at 12:01 a.m. PDT, or about 3:00 a.m. EST if you're on the East Coast. What are the best early Prime Day deals? ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget dealsMore questions? Read our Prime Day guide to discover everything you need to know about Amazon's October sale event.
Show more
Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best early Amazon Prime Day Samsung deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
Best Amazon Prime Day Walmart deals 2025: I'm tracking over 25+ of my favorite discounts before October
Top Best Buy deals before Prime Day 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use