Meta Connect 2025 Live: New Ray-Bans Gen 2, Oakley Vanguards, Quest VR - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Tech
Meta Connect 2025 Live: New Ray-Bans Gen 2, Oakley Vanguards, Quest VR
Here's everything announced for Meta's smart glasses and Quest headsets.
David Lumb
See full bio
Scott Stein
See full bio
David Lumb
Scott Stein
Sept. 17, 2025
6:16 p.m. PT
Meta This year's Meta Connect 2025 kicked off on Wednesday, showcasing Meta's next slate of mixed reality devices and tech for its headsets.While last year's Meta Connect featured the debut of the Meta Quest 3S, a more affordable version of the Meta Quest 3 meant to be a cheap gateway to VR games and experiences (such as the upcoming Star Wars: Beyond Victory), this year was all about smart glasses. Meta showed off new versions of its Meta Ray-Bans spectacles, as well as a sporty version of its Oakley HSTN glasses and a new pair with its own AR display. The MR headset fans didn't go home empty-handed, as Meta had some new software tools to show off -- like the capability to scan a room and view it in 3D.Meta Ray-Bans Gen 2, With Better Battery and Camera, Go on Sale Now for $379Meta's Oakley Vanguard Sports Glasses Tried to Turn Me Into Xtreme Sports GuyI Wore Meta's New Ray-Ban Display Glasses and Neural Band. I Feel AugmentedMeta's Quest Headsets Can Scan Your Home Into VR. The Results Are Stunning
September 17, 2025 at 6:08 PM PDT
Wrapping up Meta Connect 2025 with a run
By
David Lumb
As Meta Connect 2025 wraps up, CEO Mark Zuckerberg and musician Diplo walk off the stage in their running gear for a nice post-showcase jog. Screenshot by Jeff Carlson/CNETAfter James Cameron left, Zuckerberg walked onstage to bid adieu to the Connect crowd -- while wearing a running outfit. But the Meta CEO never runs alone apparently, as musical guest Diplo accompanied him in his own jogging duds. Both donned their own pairs of the new Oakley Vanguard sunglasses and trotted out into the sunset with a bunch of other runners headed toward the afterparty.For us, that's a wrap on Meta Connect 2025 and all the smart glasses news we saw. See everyone at the next one (through our smart glasses, of course).
September 17, 2025 at 6:01 PM PDT
James Cameron showed up to say he sees 3D as the future of media
By
Jon Reed
Filmmaker James Cameron said he sees 3D as the future of media, with devices like the Meta Quest as the perfect vehicle. Screenshot by Jon Reed/CNETFilmmaker James Cameron joined the party after Mark Zuckerberg's keynote to talk about how the Meta Quest and other devices present a "whole new distribution model" for "theater-grade 3D basically on your head."Cameron said the lighting in movie theaters was nowhere near bright enough to properly show 3D films like his Avatar series. When he watched some of his own films through a Meta Quest 3, he saw it much more like how he had envisioned it. "To me, it's like being in my own private movie theater," he said.It isn't just movies: Cameron said he expects we'll be watching the news and sports in 3D too.
September 17, 2025 at 6:01 PM PDT
Hyperscape lets you scan entire rooms to walk through in a Quest headset
By
David Lumb
This is Gordon Ramsay's home, but a walkable 3D capture. Trust me, it looks cool in headset. MetaAt last year's Meta Connect, we saw Hyperscape -- fully scanned models of real-life rooms and areas. This year, Meta debuted Hyperscape Capture, a tool that lets Quest wearers scan the room they're in to review later -- talk about a vacation souvenir for those who want to remember their favorite hotel rooms. Hyperscape Capture is available for Meta Quest 3 and Quest 3S owners and uses Gaussian splats -- a technique for 3D scanning -- to scan still images. As CNET's Scott Stein described, they were "more spatial than Apple's own spatial photos" that Apple's Vision Pro headsets can capture. While users can only review Hyperscape Captures themselves for now, Meta's working on letting them share it with others to experience whenever they don an MR headset.
September 17, 2025 at 5:50 PM PDT
Horizon TV brings shows and movies to Quest headsets
By
David Lumb
The interface for Meta's Horizon TV streaming platform from within a Meta Quest headset. Screenshot by Jeff Carlson/CNETMeta's next multimedia effort is Horizon TV, a platform to watch movies and shows while wearing Meta Quest mixed reality headsets. It looks like what Apple was doing with its Vision Pro headsets -- virtual screens to watch media from within MR -- but using Meta's far more affordable devices.
September 17, 2025 at 5:48 PM PDT
Meta's dabbling in generative agentic AI for VR
By
Scott Stein
Meta / CNETMeta Connect has been mostly about glasses, but now Zuckerberg's sharing some VR love. Meta Horizon Studio, a PC-based game development platform, is getting agentic AI. I saw demos of this in action, but it looks weirdly open-ended for me. It allows chat-based alteration of environments and game details based on prompts with a chat interface. But it doesn't work in headset, not yet.But Meta's also launching a room-scanning 3D tool called Hyperscape Capture that wowed me in a demo. That's the most exciting VR news I saw at this show.
September 17, 2025 at 5:36 PM PDT
Some tech fails during Meta Connect
By
David Lumb
No presentation is perfect, but there were a few demonstrations that have gone awry already -- and we're only halfway through Meta Connect 2025.
@cnetdotcom Sometimes even tech CEOs need a little IT support #metaconnect #metaraybandisplay #metaglasses #techfail ♬ original sound - CNET
September 17, 2025 at 5:32 PM PDT
Meta's Connect conference has been all about glasses
By
Scott Stein
Meta's new glasses are a package with the neural band: They're a set. MetaSo far, Meta's developer conference has been entirely glasses focused, with not a VR headset in sight. Three new sets of smart glasses are on the way: second-gen Ray-Bans, wraparound Oakley Vanguard sports glasses, and display-enabled Ray-Ban Display glasses with a neural gesture band.It's clear that Meta's goal is AI and AR integrating on glasses ASAP, but it does raise questions on where the VR stuff fits in the picture. Right now, VR and smart glasses continue to operate on extremely different planes of existence for Meta, and it makes me wonder whether Meta's claim that VR and glasses will live hand in hand will truly come to pass.
September 17, 2025 at 5:31 PM PDT
Meta Ray-Ban Display: Sleek specs with an AR display
By
David Lumb
I test-drove Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses and the neural band, but my vision doesn't work with them. I needed extra inserts (seen here, which aren't how supported prescriptions will look). Scott Stein/CNETHere it is: The Meta Ray-Ban Display, which as the name implies, has a small AR display in the bottom right corner. This functions like a small smartwatch-size collection of apps you can rotate through using the neural wristband controls (as first featured on the Orion concept glasses). On the Meta Connect stage, Zuckerberg showed off (some) of what you can do with these new specks. With the screen, you can "put subtitles on the world," as the Meta CEO put it, with the glasses running a live transcription of speech in front of you. You can also take previews of photos from the glasses camera. Meta Ray-Ban Display will be available Sept. 30, cost $800 in a bundle with the glasses and the wristband, and come in two colors: black and sand.
September 17, 2025 at 5:26 PM PDT
Live AI got stage fright during the Ray-Ban demo
By
Jon Reed
Mark Zuckerberg, on the left, talks with Jack Mancuso, on the right, as Mancuso tries to demonstrate the Live AI feature on the new Meta Ray-Bans. Screenshot by Jon Reed/CNETLet's hope Jack Mancuso doesn't need AI to cook everything for the Meta Connect afterparty. To demo the Live AI feature on the Meta Ray-Bans, Mark Zuckerberg threw it to Mancuso, otherwise known as Chef Cuso, who was getting ready to prepare a steak sauce in a kitchen somewhere. Mancuso asked the AI for help, it started giving a long, boring explanation, so he interrupted to say, "What do I do first?" That threw the AI off, as it skipped a step and started the next step with "You've already combined the base ingredients..." which, nothing had been combined.Mancuso tried again, and it started that same step again. He and Zuckerberg blamed it on "the Wi-Fi." Zuckerberg said Live AI can run for about an hour right now, but the goal is that you could use it all day. "We're not there yet," he said.
September 17, 2025 at 5:21 PM PDT
Oakley Vanguard are sporty wraparound AI sunglasses
By
David Lumb
Meta's wraparound Oakley Vanguard glasses, which pair with Garmin watches, are like nothing I normally wear. Then again, I don't tend to snowboard or race bikes. Scott Stein/CNETEarlier this year, Meta launched AI-powered smart glasses in partnership with Oakley, the $499 Oakley HSTN glasses that have a slightly different look than the Meta Ray-Bans. Now there's a new sport-ready version with its own tweaks: the wraparound Oakley Vanguard glasses, which start shipping Oct. 21. The Oakley Vanguard have the same $499 price but meant for outdoor action, with water resistance, a centered camera with wider 122-degree field of view, better battery (up to 9 hours, Meta says), audio piped in from the ear stems and more.
September 17, 2025 at 5:14 PM PDT
Updated Meta Ray-Bans are coming for $379
By
David Lumb
The Gen 2 Meta Ray-Bans look the same, but have boosted battery and camera inside. I'm setting up my pair. Scott Stein/CNETUpdated versions of Meta Ray-Bans are going on sale for $379, and they're available now. What do you get in the Meta Ray-Bans Gen 2 for an $80 price hike above the original glasses, which debuted two years ago? Double battery life and better cameras. Check out all the details here.
September 17, 2025 at 5:10 PM PDT
No Latin on your shirt this time, Mark?
By
David Lumb
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg at Meta Connect 2024 -- note the shirt. Bloomberg/Getty ImagesLast year, Zuckerberg took the stage with a shirt that said "AUT ZUCK AUT NIHIL," which was Latin for (roughly translated) All Zuck or All Nothing. This year, the Meta CEO is wearing a plain black shirt, keeping the focus on the glasses.
September 17, 2025 at 5:06 PM PDT
And we're live! Zuckerberg takes the stage
By
David Lumb
Screenshot by David Lumb/CNETMeta CEO Mark Zuckerberg walks up to the stage wearing a pair of unspecified smart glasses -- "More on those later" -- though viewers got a POV livestreamed view of Zuckerberg's walk up.
September 17, 2025 at 5:02 PM PDT
Adam Mosseri, head of Instagram, is here
By
Scott Stein
Scott Stein/CNET
September 17, 2025 at 4:50 PM PDT
The inside of The Museum at MPK 21
By
Scott Stein
Scott Stein/CNETPeople are starting to sit down as we hit the 10-minutes-and-counting mark before Meta Connect 2025 officially kicks off.
September 17, 2025 at 4:43 PM PDT
Here at Meta HQ in Menlo Park, California
By
Scott Stein
CNET's Scott Stein (left) and Faith Chihil (right) prepare for Meta Connect 2025 on Meta's campus. Faith Chihil/CNETMyself and CNET Social Producer Faith Chihil are here at Facebook HQ waiting for Meta Connect 2025 to begin. We're going to head into the Museum at MPK 21 on Meta's campus where the event is being held.
September 17, 2025 at 4:20 PM PDT
Code name Hypernova? We could hear about Meta's next smart glasses
By
David Lumb
Three pairs of Meta Ray-Ban glasses. Ray-Ban/CNETNo, it's not the next version of the Meta Ray-Bans. Supposedly, Meta has been working on a pair of smart glasses, code name Hypernova, which have an AR display in the right lens. That sounds similar to Google's Android XR tech, which we saw at Google I/O back in May, but those were internally built concept devices. Hypernova, on the other hand, could soon be headed to market -- and may be revealed at Meta Connect.A Bloomberg report published last month has some early details on Hypernova, including a potential price of $800. That's far above the $300 price tag for the Meta Ray-Bans, and for good reason: The AR display will supposedly show mini apps and alerts. You'll also be able to control the screen through the same neural input wristband used in Meta's Orion glasses. We still don't know what Hypernova looks like or whether it'll be sleek like the Meta Ray-Bans or have a bulkier build to accommodate the AR screen. Per the report, Meta is trimming the price down from $1,000 and accepting lower margins to assist adoption. We hope to hear more about the glasses on the Meta Connect stage.
September 17, 2025 at 12:06 PM PDT
The future of AR is smart glasses, and AI is onboard assisting everything
By
David Lumb
Tharon Green, CNETI usually make it around 10 minutes into a tech event before I see someone wearing a pair of Ray-Ban Meta Glasses. Yet even outside enthusiast circles, I'm starting to see them pop up in public. Their increasing presence suggests the design works for people, and they align with the rise of generative AI, especially with AI assistants.While the Ray-Ban Meta Glasses have rudimentary voice controls, other mixed-reality solutions are exploring the use of onboard AI to comment on and analyze what wearers are looking at. At Google I/O earlier this year, we got to try out some of this Android XR tech. Having Gemini AI engage with whatever is in your line of sight makes the tech feel imminent, not impossible. As phone owners start using virtual assistants more, they'll be more open to using them in other contexts, like with smart glasses. Soon enough, tech executives predict, consumers won't even have to bother navigating their phone or glasses to get facts. They'll just ask their devices, and AI assistants will surface the answers."Apps will start to mean less and less," Alex Katouzian, Qualcomm's senior vice president and general manager of mobile, computer and XR, told me at the company's Snapdragon Summit last year. We've heard a lot about Project Orion's innovations in neural displays, and we'll see if Meta has more to say about how its smart glasses will use AI.
September 17, 2025 at 9:10 AM PDT
What's Orion about? Meta's plans for smart glasses
By
Scott Stein
Meta's Orion concept smart glasses. Celso Bugatti, CNETLast year, I tried Meta's future vision for AR glasses: a standalone pair called Project Orion that also had a neural input wristband using surface-based electromyography sensor technology (sEMG). Those glasses were a glimpse at Meta's ideal for future hardware. At this week's Meta Connect, we're likely to see an actual step toward that, in a form you can actually buy.There appear to be leaked videos of the next product, a display-enabled pair of Ray-Bans that feature the same gesture sEMG wristband I tried a year ago. The glasses are going to be expensive, but they may also run a new wave of apps that work with gestures and that single color display. Maps, photos, live translation and (maybe) fitness are likely to be shown off.Meta's already had success selling its Ray-Ban smart glasses, and now Oakley-branded glasses have hit stores this summer. Partner EssilorLuxottica could announce new brands and designs at Connect.While what I saw with Orion -- eye tracking, 3D games and experiences that seemed to live in the room around me -- won't be coming right now, Meta's next-gen Ray-Bans look like they're starting to solve some of the challenges this year. Will their price and likely battery life limits make sense? We'll find out.
September 16, 2025 at 11:50 PM PDT
What's coming with Meta Quest headsets?
By
Scott Stein
The Quest 3 (right) is more expensive than the Quest 3S (left), but the Quest 3 also has better lenses, a higher-resolution display and more storage. Scott Stein/CNETMeta has been the top player in VR for years now, but Mark Zuckerberg's visible pivot to AI-powered smart glasses has made me wonder if Meta's focus will continue to be VR apps and hardware. The divide between glasses and VR seems wide (and weird) right now. All indications ahead of Meta Connect are pointing entirely to the glasses side of the equation.That said, a year after the budget-focused Quest 3S debut, we could see some VR news debuting at Meta's big event.One rumor is about a pro-targeted Asus ROG-made VR headset running Horizon OS (the Quest's operating system). This would be the first third-party piece of hardware running Meta's OS, but Meta already said partners like Asus would be part of the equation over a year ago. We're still waiting. Meta did release a limited edition Xbox-branded Quest 3S earlier this year, which could be a sign of further moves too.A pro headset would also help offer a competitive answer to Apple's Vision Pro (which may have a new version soon) and Samsung/Google's imminent Moohan mixed reality headset, debuting Android XR, which should be coming this fall.We could see some new games announced, too. I'm also waiting for more AI features to come to VR.
September 16, 2025 at 8:54 PM PDT
How to watch Meta Connect 2025's keynote
By
David Lumb
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg shows off the Meta Quest 3S and Meta Quest 3 mixed reality headset prices at Meta Connect 2024. Bloomberg/Getty ImagesMeta Connect 2025 kicks off with a keynote from company CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday, Sept. 17, starting at 5 p.m. PT / 8 p.m. ET. Viewers can register and watch on Meta's website. The keynote is expected to have all the big news up front, along with a preview of what's to come for Meta, its devices and what's in store for 2026.The show continues through Thursday, Sept. 18, with a full agenda. The day starts with a developer keynote at 10 a.m. PT / 1 p.m. ET and will continue with sessions covering Meta Horizons, generative AI, developer toolkits and more.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.