Primate gets a major tease before 2026 horror movie season
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The buzzy new horror movie just premiered at the 2025 Fantastic Fest
3 cute, extremely gory stories from the set of Primate
By
Tasha Robinson
Published 6 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your Polygon account
Photo: Paramount Pictures
Paramount Pictures’ upcoming animal-attack horror movie Primate got its first public screening on Sept. 18 as the opening film of Fantastic Fest, Austin’s annual film festival dedicated to horror, extreme cinema, and genre movies. Primate is exactly the kind of movie Fantastic Fest was built for. It’s self-aware and just the slightest bit campy, but startlingly gory, and coming from a director, Johannes Roberts (47 Meters Down, Resident Evil: Welcome to Raccoon City) who committed to boundary-pushing violence. Primate stars Johnny Sequoyah (Dexter: New Blood) as Lucy, a young woman returning from college to her family home in Hawaii, where her Deaf father (Oscar-winning CODA star Troy Kotsur) and younger sister live with a pet chimpanzee, Ben. When Ben contracts rabies and becomes unpredictable and violent, Lucy and her friends struggle to survive as Ben attacks and mutilates them one by one. After the screening, Roberts, Sequoyah, and Kotsur spoke to the audience and told three great stories ahead of a planned January release.
1
Yes, it’s Cujo with a chimp instead of a dog
Photo: Rick Kern/Getty Images for Paramount Pictures
Roberts is entirely open about the idea for Primate coming from Stephen King’s 1981 novel and 1983 movie adaptation Cujo, about a mother and child trying to survive when their rabid Saint Bernard attacks them. “I'm a massive, massive Stephen King fan, and a massive fan of Cujo,” Roberts said. He explained that watching his mother’s pet dog circling the family swimming pool inspired the movie, where Lucy and her friends take refuge in a swimming pool, knowing that Ben can’t swim, and that his hydrophobia will keep him away from the water. “It just seemed like a really, really unpleasant idea,” Roberts said. “A dog, you kind of feel a sympathy with. But chimpanzees? I just think they're scary. […] Dogs are one thing, but chimpanzees are little fucking shits.” The chimp effects in the movie are mostly practical, Roberts said: Ben is played by an actor, Miguel Torres Umba, and the filmmaking team used prosthetics and puppetry to make him into a convincing, frightening animal.
“We did build all these animatronics, sculpts and stuff — there's like a million different things we used there. If any of you have seen a behind-the-scenes of Cujo, seen all the different varieties of things that happened on that, [it’s] that kind of thing. I could go on for ages about how the different crazy things we bought, but for me, the big thing was he had to have a personality. […] I wanted, in a sense, almost Freddy Krueger.”
2
The difference between drama and horror
Rick Kern/Getty Images for Paramount Pictures
Speaking through a translator, Kotsur talked about how he approached horror differently from his dramatic roles: “When you're acting in a drama, you really have to prepare and have that feeling with what's going on,” he said. “And with horror, it's almost better when you don't know what's going on until you actually see it. […] You have to have an authentic reaction.” With that in mind, he asked Roberts to conceal one grotesque prop from him. In the movie, Troy’s character enters a particularly dangerous situation without realizing what’s going on, because he can’t hear Lucy screaming a warning. He doesn’t realize the danger until he finds one of Ben’s victims — the most horrifically mutilated of the lot. “Right before [shooting] that, I told everyone, ‘I don't want to actually see [the corpse prop ahead of time],’” he said. “‘I’d prefer to be surprised. I want the camera to shoot my raw reaction.’ So when it was time to shoot, and they called ‘Action!’ they actually brought out this dead body. it really freaked me out. So what you see on screen was my actual first reaction.” Asked about his favorite moment from the shoot, Kotsur said it actually came immediately afterward. “I had a lot of blood on me throughout this production,” he said. “And I was sitting down in a restaurant after production. A waiter screamed at me, and said, ‘What's wrong? You've got blood all over your hands!’ I thought I had already washed all of the fake blood off, and of course I was fine, but there was blood on my hands throughout that entire shoot. So that was my favorite part, was seeing that waiter's reaction.”
3
Scrapping the script
Photo: Rick Kern/Getty Images for Paramount Pictures
Early in Primate, audiences will have a familiar horror-movie feeling that they know which characters are being marked for death, and which ones are likely to survive. And they would have been right, according to the original script — but Roberts says he and producers Walter Hamada and John Hodges wound up rewriting everything at the last minute. “I started this 15 years ago. The script was done, and we are there, [in the] studio and everything, maybe literally a week before filming,” Roberts said. “And suddenly […] it's like, This fucker shouldn't live.” The decision, Roberts suggests, was based on the idea that the character in question tries something risky to fight back against Ben, and the audience needed to know why that wasn’t going to be possible, why the surviving characters didn’t have an easy way out. “So a week before filming, we just rewrote the entire script and killed [that character]. I love it.” A different character death in the movie hit him harder, he said. “Even now, I watch it and I'm uncomfortable for all the wrong reasons. And that kind of thing is really great. [This particular death] is horrible — it felt horrible when we were doing it. It felt like doing a snuff movie.”
That said, Roberts underlined that he found the entire shooting process fun. “What I love about this movie is that the group of filmmakers that came together just wanted to make a movie that plays like this,” he said.
Primate will arrive in theaters on Jan. 6, 2026.
Horror
Feature
events
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 17, 2025
The weird, heartbreaking FPS powered by science, not combat
Sep 18, 2025
The Dragon Prince fans are funding a spinoff series starring Liam O’Brien
Sep 18, 2025
Daredevil: Born Again officially confirmed for season 3
Sep 18, 2025
Vampire: The Masquerade — Bloodlines 2 feels like Assassin's Creed stapled to Disco Elysium
More from our brands
Gator Lake Review: Florida's Version Of Cocaine Bear Gets The Movie Treatment & It's Somehow More Uninteresting
Every Sony Pictures Film Releasing in 2025, From '28 Years Later' to 'Karate Kid: Legends, and More
Everything We Know About Primitive War
The Best Horror Movies Hitting Theaters and Streaming in January 2025
2025 Fall Movie Preview: 43 Movies You Need To See in Theaters This Fall
The 24 Best Hidden Gem Movies on Netflix Right Now
Audiences Love Primitive War Because It Does One Thing Way Better Than Jurassic World
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
Marvel Zombies wastes the MCU's most promising superhero team
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.