Superman HBO Max release date announced — and it's way sooner than we thought
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The film is soaring onto home screens barely 70 days after its premiere
James Gunn's Superman is coming to HBO Max this week
By
Isaac Rouse
Published 1 day ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Superman
Related
Star War Outlaws on Switch 2 settles it: Nintendo is in its port era now
4 days ago
The stunning brilliance of Silksong's Hornet hover
5 days ago
The Super Mario Galaxy Movie might actually confirm important Princess Peach lore
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Warner Bros. Discover
Just 70 days after its theatrical debut, James Gunn and David Corenswet’s Superman is officially landing on HBO Max this week. Corenswet confirmed the news on Instagram with a selfie of his TV showing the film on the streamer’s homepage, playfully tagging co-star Sara Sampaio with a nod to her character Eve Teschmacher, while Gunn amplified the announcement on X, revealing the movie arrives Friday, Sept. 19. Warner Bros. confirmed the news soon afterward in an official press release, teasing a full DCU takeover of HBO Max to celebrate the streaming release.
To mark Superman’s homecoming, HBO Max is rolling out a special themed interface packed with interactive features. Fans will see Daily Planet–inspired homepage art, a Fortress of Solitude hub curating Superman-related content, and hidden portals across the homepage that transport users into Lex Luthor’s Pocket Dimension, where personalized title recommendations await. Superman smashed through several milestones this summer, including the biggest opening for a Man of Steel film ever, and even beating Barbie in joining the Two Million Watched Letterboxd club in just 45 days. Although some may be split on its depiction of Superman or even its ending, Superman has created a solid first step in DC's new universe, and Peacemaker season 2 serves as a good follow up. We already have confirmation of a Man of Tomorrow follow-up film starring Corenswet's Superman and Nicholas Hoult's Lex Luthor seemingly teaming up together against an even greater threat. (It's Braniac, right?) However, Gunn has already confirmed that it will be a standalone film and not Superman 2. Man of Tomorrow is set to start filming next year and release in theaters on July 9, 2027. In the meantime, you can watch Superman on HBO Max starting this Friday, Sept. 19.
News
Entertainment
DC
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
Life is Strange's TV adaptation needs one crucial thing to capture the game's heart
3 days ago
25 years later, the most action-packed Kids WB show still holds up
3 days ago
What dragons would Mason Thames and Nico Parker have IRL?
5 days ago
The Nintendo Switch 2's year-one game lineup keeps getting stranger
More from our brands
Look Up: Here's What You Need to Know About 'Superman,' James Gunn's First DCU Movie
Everything We Know About James Gunn's Superman From the Trailer
Everything We Know About James Gunn’s Superman So Far
James Gunn’s Complete DCU Timeline (So Far)
James Gunn Reveals the Plot of the 'Superman' Sequel — And It's Exactly What Fans Thought
James Gunn's DCU Future Has Hollywood Feeling Shakily Confident
James Gunn’s ‘Man of Tomorrow’ Looks Like It’s Finally Going To Give Fans What They’ve Always Wanted on the Big Screen
Most Popular
As Steal A Brainrot takes over Fortnite, fans worry about the platform's future
Steam, Discord, and Twitch execs called to testify before Congress over 'radicalization' of users
Aztec Batman stretches the limits of the Dark Knight past his breaking point
James Gunn says Green Lantern could beat Superman in a DCU showdown
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
Geralt's 'blood-soaked' new adventure revealed in The Witcher: Blood Stone first look
See More
Trending Now
28 years later, this award-winning Star Wars manga is getting a gorgeous new edition
Critical Role reveals Campaign 4 characters, and they're as hot and weird as you imagined
We finally know when House of the Dragon season 3 will premiere
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.