Hotly anticipated US vaccine meeting ends with confusion — and a few decisions
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
20 September 2025
Hotly anticipated US vaccine meeting ends with confusion — and a few decisions
Vaccine advisers chosen by US health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr vote to restrict one childhood vaccine, but delay their decision on another.
By
Mariana Lenharo0 &
Heidi Ledford
Mariana Lenharo
Mariana Lenharo is a news reporter for Nature based in New York City.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Heidi Ledford
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
A US vaccine advisory panel decided Friday not to require prescriptions for COVID-19 vaccinations Credit: Spencer Platt/GettyAn influential panel of US vaccine advisers stopped short of recommending COVID-19 vaccines to the public, advising instead that people should make their own decisions in consultation with a health care provider. But some vaccine experts who spoke to Nature say that the decision should preserve both access to the vaccines and health-insurance programmes’ coverage of the shots.The panel, the US Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), narrowly voted against requiring a prescription for the vaccines. The ACIP’s findings help to determine which vaccinations are paid for by both government programmes and private health insurance companies, which fund health care for millions of US residents.Who is on RFK Jr’s new vaccine panel — and what will they do?All 12 ACIP members were appointed by US health secretary and long-time anti-vaccine activist Robert F. Kennedy Jr, who named five of the nominees only a few days ago. Many have made statements against COVID-19 vaccination or vaccine mandates. Kennedy fired the 17 previous members of the ACIP in June. “The ACIP is meant to provide concrete recommendations on vaccine policy, and today's votes on the informed consent process on COVID-19 … were extraordinarily vague,” said Sean O’Leary, an infectious disease paediatrician at the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), in a news conference following the ACIP meeting.Confusion reignsThe panel’s decisions on COVID-19 vaccines capped two days of confusion and abrupt reversals by the panelists. The panel was scheduled to issue guidance Thursday on hepatitis B vaccination for newborn babies. But panelists delayed the decision until today and then decided today to delay the decision indefinitely, citing the need for more deliberation. “There's enough ambiguity here and enough remaining discussion about safety, effectiveness and timing that I believe that a vote today is premature”, said panel member Robert Malone, a physician and scientist.How to stop mother-to-child transmission of hepatitis BPanel members also voted today to reverse a decision they made yesterday on a childhood vaccine against measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV). Panelists voted Thursday to recommend that a US government programme called Vaccines for Children, which provides free vaccinations to many US children, should continue to provide the MMRV vaccine for children under the age of 4; on Friday they voted that it should not. “It was a bit chaotic both yesterday and today,” says William Schaffner, an infectious disease specialist at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tennessee, and a former member of the ACIP. “They’re all still getting their sea legs.”Vaccine choicesOn Thursday, panelists also voted against the general usage of the MMRV vaccine in children under the age of 4 years — a decision separate from their vote on the use of the MMRV vaccine in the Vaccines for Children programme.Since 2009, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended that children receive their first dose of varicella (the virus that causes chicken pox) vaccine separately from their first dose of the combined measles, mumps and rubella vaccine. The recommendation is based on a link between the MMRV vaccine and a slightly higher risk of fever-related seizures in children between one and two years of age.Under the old guidelines, families could still opt for the single MMRV shot — for example, if they wanted to reduce the number of medical visits for their child. But the panel’s recommendation means that families will no longer have that choice, assuming the panel’s recommendations are approved by the acting CDC director. ACIP member Cody Meissner, a paediatrics researcher at the Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine in Lebanon, New Hampshire, opposed the decision. “What we're saying is we don't trust parents to make a decision,” he said. “Some parents don't want to administer two doses of a vaccine if they can receive one and get the same degree of coverage. And I prefer that families have the option to make a selection.” COVID-19 clarityThe committee did not vote on whether COVID-19 vaccines should be covered by the Vaccines for Children programme, a decision that typically follows all ACIP vaccine recommendation votes. “I was worried that they were going to forget about that and they did, further demonstrating the lack of familiarity with the process of the folks on this committee,” said O'Leary.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03054-z
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
RFK Jr demanded a vaccine study be retracted — the journal said no
Learn COVID pandemic lessons — before it’s too late
Can giant surveys of scientists fight misinformation on COVID, climate change and more?
mRNA COVID vaccines saved lives and won a Nobel — what’s next for the technology?
The lightning-fast quest for COVID vaccines — and what it means for other diseases
Subjects
Vaccines
SARS-CoV-2
Public health
Politics
Epidemiology
Latest on:
Vaccines
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
News 17 SEP 25
Childhood vaccines up for review in the US: what’s at stake
News 12 SEP 25
Your risk of dying from chronic disease has dropped — if you live in these countries
News 10 SEP 25
SARS-CoV-2
Cancelling mRNA studies is the highest irresponsibility
Editorial 15 AUG 25
‘Sleeping’ cancer cells in the lungs can be roused by COVID and flu
News 30 JUL 25
Respiratory viral infections awaken metastatic breast cancer cells in lungs
Article 30 JUL 25
Public health
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
How billions of hacked mosquitoes and a vaccine could beat the deadly dengue virus
News Feature 16 SEP 25
Protests are infectious: mapping rural unrest in Revolutionary France
News & Views 09 SEP 25
Jobs
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
Related Articles
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
RFK Jr demanded a vaccine study be retracted — the journal said no
Learn COVID pandemic lessons — before it’s too late
Can giant surveys of scientists fight misinformation on COVID, climate change and more?
mRNA COVID vaccines saved lives and won a Nobel — what’s next for the technology?
The lightning-fast quest for COVID vaccines — and what it means for other diseases
Subjects
Vaccines
SARS-CoV-2
Public health
Politics
Epidemiology
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited