Nvidia, Wayve in Talks Over $500 Million Investment in Self-Driving Car Startup | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
Global News Select
Nvidia, Wayve in Talks Over $500 Million Investment in Self-Driving Car Startup
Nvidia, Wayve in Talks Over $500 Million Investment in Self-Driving Car Startup
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 19, 2025, 11:43:00 AM
By Mauro Orru
Nvidia is holding discussions with Wayve Technologies over a potential $500 million investment in the self-driving car startup, a move that could further expand their collaboration in autonomous vehicles.
The companies signed a letter of intent to evaluate the funding which, if it materializes, would come as part of Wayve's next funding round, further cementing a partnership that dates back to 2018.
London-based Wayve has bet on Nvidia technology to power its artificial-intelligence models. Its AI training and fleet-learning infrastructure is built on Microsoft Azure, which relies on Nvidia hardware.
The startup develops software known as Embodied AI that allows cars to interact with, comprehend and learn from human behavior in real-world environments, effectively equipping vehicles with a robot brain that can adapt to unexpected situations.
The company said its upcoming platform would be built on Nvidia's Drive AGX Thor, a kit for the design, testing and deployment of autonomous vehicles that is used by the likes of China's BYD, Xiaomi and Sweden's Volvo Car, according to Nvidia.
Nvidia has already invested in Wayve, which last year raised $1.05 billion from investors such as Japan's SoftBank Group, Microsoft and Nvidia itself.
Alex Kendall, Wayve's co-founder and chief executive, said continued support from a giant like Nvidia underscores confidence in its tech.
In June, Uber Technologies and Wayve agreed to launch public-road trials of fully autonomous vehicles in London once all permits and approvals from local authorities are in place.
The companies said at the time they had picked the U.K. capital because of its significantly different road layouts and traffic laws compared with U.S. locations, where most testing had been conducted. A more complex driving environment would allow the companies to better develop the technology needed to deploy self-driving cars at scale.
Write to Mauro Orru at mauro.orru@wsj.com
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
September 19, 2025 07:43 ET (11:43 GMT)
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
How Healthy Is the US Economy? Here’s What the Top Economic Indicators Say While recession fears have cooled, here are some signals worth watching.
Margaret Giles Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued technology stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
David Sekera, CFA, Susan Dziubinski, and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility