A Breakdown of 2025 Target-Date Strategies | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Target-Date 2025 Funds Have Exceeded Expectations
Plan Sponsors and Investors Upped Conversions to CITs From Mutual Funds
Investors Prefer Lower-Cost Options
Asset-Allocation Glide Paths Have Become More Aggressive and Similar Over Time
Why Understanding Target-Date Funds Matters
Home
Financial Advisors
A Breakdown of Target-Date Fund Strategies in 2025
A Breakdown of Target-Date Fund Strategies in 2025
Clients who invested in a target-date fund for the past 15 years and collect Social Security should be set for retirement.
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA
Sep 15, 2025
Share
Investors continue to invest their retirement savings in target-date funds. Between inflows and market appreciation, assets have grown more than 20% annualized over the past 15 years.A deeper understanding of target-date strategies empowers asset managers to conduct better competitive analysis and deliver more differentiated offerings. Our 2025 Target-Date Fund Landscape report analyzes flows, fees, asset composition, top picks based on the Morningstar Medalist Rating, and more.Target-Date 2025 Funds Have Exceeded ExpectationsThe trust put into target-date funds has been largely theoretical—especially given the few investment offerings and certainly none with sufficiently long, multidecade track records that could demonstrate real-life success. Even so, these investments have thrived. Combined with the expected income from Social Security, an investor retiring in 2025 who had steadily invested in the 2025 fund over the past 15 years should have savings that adequately support them throughout retirement at an income level similar to what they had in their working years.
37 Target-Date 2025 Funds Have at Least 15 Years of Track Record Through 2024
The actual returns produced by this group of target-date funds have outpaced expectations from the target-date investing models commonly used around 2010.
Source: Morningstar Direct, author's calculations, and surveyed data. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Plan Sponsors and Investors Upped Conversions to CITs From Mutual FundsIn the past decade, target-date collective investment trusts have been steadily gaining market share over their mutual fund counterparts. They also became the most-used vehicle in mid-2024, accounting for 52% of assets at the end of the year.This trend may not be shocking: Plan sponsors, for example, often choose to stay with a given target-date investment strategy but move retirement plan assets from a mutual fund vehicle to a CIT investment vehicle. While CITs don’t enjoy the same level of transparency and data availability as mutual funds, they usually come with lower fees.
Mutual Fund to CIT Conversions
Asset managers reported $39.8 billion in target-date fund conversions from mutual funds to CITs last year.
Source: Morningstar Direct and surveyed data. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Investors Prefer Lower-Cost OptionsTarget-date mutual fund portfolios that primarily hold index funds have lower costs than those with more actively managed exposure. Specifically, their average expense ratio is 53 basis points lower than active-based portfolios and 32 basis points lower than blended portfolios. These significant cost savings help explain why index-based target-date strategies have become increasingly favored.Blended portfolios—which combine active and passive management strategies—are growing in popularity as well. However, they still represent only a small portion of the overall target-date market, comprising just 5% of assets compared with 53% for passive series and 42% for active series.
Average and Asset-Weighted Fees by Portfolio Construction
In all three categories, the asset-weighted expense ratios are lower than the simple averages, which indicates that investors consistently prefer lower-cost options.
Source: Morningstar Direct, author’s calculations. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Asset-Allocation Glide Paths Have Become More Aggressive and Similar Over TimeThe difference between the most and least aggressive target-date asset-allocation glide paths has narrowed, as offerings have converged and become more alike. While change was minimal from 2010 to 2015, the gap narrowed from 2015 to 2020, and the five years through the end of 2024 yielded a small narrowing. Overall, the range has widened at the end of the glide path owing to equity allocations staying higher for longer. With equity allocations rising, some more conservative target-date offerings may have become less appealing. Target-date funds are supposed to be built for the average person, so a very differentiated offering may have a tougher time surviving.
Average Glide Path Ranges Through Time
The gap between the highest and lowest average equity allocation at each point along the asset-allocation glide path has narrowed over the past 15 years.
Source: Morningstar Direct, author’s calculations. Data as of Dec. 31, 2024. Why Understanding Target-Date Funds MattersRetirement planning looks different for every investor. When asset managers are informed about the industry landscape and popular retirement vehicles like target-date strategies, it can be easier to stay competitive and provide comprehensive options.
Correction: Between inflows and market appreciation, assets have grown more than 20% annualized over the past 15 years, not 30%.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Financial Advisors
View All
The Hidden Costs of Passive Investing Index funds and systematic strategies face trading frictions that quietly erode investor returns.
Larry Swedroe Sep 25, 2025
Why the Bond Market Is Fertile Ground for Active Management Its structure poses inherent challenges for passive investing.
Eric Jacobson Aug 28, 2025
Global Defense Market Trends: How Geopolitical Shifts Are Shaping Opportunities in the Sector
Rising global defense budgets and innovations in military tech and AI are creating investment opportunities advisors shouldn’t overlook.
Loredana Muharremi Aug 27, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Director, Multi-Asset Alternatives, Manager Research
More from Author
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA, is director of multi-asset and alternative strategies for Morningstar.
Managed-Futures Funds Look to Rebound. Can They Help Diversify Your Portfolio?
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 18, 2025
A Breakdown of Target-Date Fund Strategies in 2025
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 15, 2025
The Best Target-Date Funds: Morningstar’s Top-Rated Strategies for Your Retirement
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Jun 18, 2025
Morningstar Awards for Investing Excellence: Outstanding Allocation Portfolio Manager Nominees
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Jun 16, 2025
Target-Date Funds Have Delivered
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Apr 30, 2025
These Women Portfolio Managers Have Made a Lot of Money for Investors
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Mar 5, 2025
Watch Out for Rising Fees at These Funds
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Feb 11, 2025
Target-Date Funds for Retirement Income: A Closer Look
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Jan 21, 2025
Why We Upgraded This Income Fund
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Dec 5, 2024
A Closer Look at US Thrift Savings Plan TSP Funds in 2024
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Nov 12, 2024
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility