Gen X's Retirement 'Blind Spot' Derails Financial Plans: Report | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Money & Finance
Half of Gen X Has Financial 'Blind Spot' That Wrecks Retirement
The "sandwich generation" might not be prepared to retire well.
By
Amanda Breen
Edited by
Jessica Thomas
Sep 22, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Just 54% of Gen X savers said they're on track for retirement, per BlackRock.
Gen Xers said they'd need $1.57 million to retire comfortably, according to Northwestern Mutual.
As the oldest members of Gen X continue to turn 60 this year, the so-called "sandwich generation" is getting closer to the typical age for retirement (62, on average).Unfortunately, many Gen X professionals lack the financial resources to retire well.Just 54% of Gen X savers said they're on track for retirement, the lowest percentage of any generation, according to a BlackRock report.Related: 25% of Boomers Face a Bleak Retirement — Are You Making the Same Mistakes?An annual research study from Northwestern Mutual casts the spotlight on some of Gen X's most pressing retirement issues as the group approaches its golden years.
First, Gen Xers said they'd need $1.57 million to retire comfortably, or $310,000 more than the "magic number" national average, according to the research.More than half (56%) of Gen Xers thought they'd likely outlive their savings, while just 40% of Boomers and beyond felt the same, per the report.Related: The National Average Salary Is About $65,000. Here's What Americans Are Saving for Retirement — How Do Your Stats Compare?Across all generations, Gen X was the least likely to report the expectation of an inheritance.Additionally, Gen X respondents were more concerned than millennials or Boomers about paying off their mortgage: 25% compared to 24% and 18%, respectively.Gen X also reported less understanding of some critical factors that could impact their retirement plans. For example, they had a looser grasp on how inflation (53%) and taxes (49%) could affect their financial plans, compared to 66% and 62% of Boomers.Related: Retirees Will Likely Outlive Their Savings in 5 States, Falling Short By Up to $448,000. Here's Where They Have Better Odds.What's more, 50% of Gen X admitted to a "common blindspot" when it comes to managing their finances: They said they'd prioritized building wealth without doing enough to protect their assets. Just 35% of Boomers felt the same.
"Growth without protection can leave people vulnerable," Jeff Sippel, chief strategy officer at Northwestern Mutual, said. "Especially as you get older, safeguarding what you've built is just as critical as continuing to build. A holistic plan should account for both."
As the oldest members of Gen X continue to turn 60 this year, the so-called "sandwich generation" is getting closer to the typical age for retirement (62, on average).Unfortunately, many Gen X professionals lack the financial resources to retire well.Just 54% of Gen X savers said they're on track for retirement, the lowest percentage of any generation, according to a BlackRock report.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Amanda Breen
Entrepreneur Staff
Senior Features Writer
Amanda Breen is a senior features writer at Entrepreneur.com. She is a graduate of Barnard College and received an MFA in writing at Columbia University, where she was a news fellow for the School of the Arts.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Growing a Business
Why Do Some People Succeed Instantly While Others Take Years? These 3 Things Explain It
We all love to hear the stories of people who started a business and became an overnight success, but the reality is very different for most.
By
Cynthia Kay
Business News
A Data Breach Reportedly Affecting 18 Million Customers Hits Jeep, Chrysler, and Dodge Parent Company
The automaker Stellantis announced on Sunday that it had uncovered "unauthorized access" to a third-party service platform in North America.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business News
A 27-Year-Old Toy Company Is Growing Faster Than Microsoft: 'Really Emotional, Memorable Experience'
And no, it's not Labubu. Here's why Build-A-Bear Workshop's stock has grown by more than 2,000% over the past five years.
By
Sherin Shibu
Social Media
How To Start a Youtube Channel: Step-by-Step Guide
YouTube can be a valuable way to grow your audience. If you're ready to create content, read more about starting a business YouTube Channel.
By
Jason R. Rich
Business News
A Major Airline Is Furloughing One-Third of Its Flight Attendants
Spirit Airlines is placing 1,800 flight attendants on furlough.
By
Erin Davis
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC