Donald Trump Forcing Jimmy Kimmel Off the Air Crosses a Line - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Media
Let's be clear: The Trump administration forcing Jimmy Kimmel off the air is bad. Very bad.
By
Peter Kafka
Chief Correspondent covering media and technology
It was a different world in 2016: Donald Trump visited Jimmy Kimmel's show on ABC.
Randy Holmes/Disney General Entertainment Content via Getty Images
2025-09-18T13:33:56Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The Trump administration told Disney to punish Jimmy Kimmel, and Disney did.
That's the kind of thing that we think happens in other countries, not the US.
Reminder: We're just eight months into the second Trump presidency. Where do we go from here?
It's very bad.
There's no other way to put it.It's very bad when American regulators call on American media companies to shut down a TV show they don't like. And it's very bad when American media companies follow those demands.
Which, of course, is what happened on Wednesday. Disney suspended Jimmy Kimmel's late-night show hours after Brendan Carr, Donald Trump's pick to head the Federal Communications Commission, told Disney to "take action, frankly, on Kimmel" because Kimmel had made a joke about Trump supporters and Charlie Kirk.To get this part out of the way: It's certainly within Disney CEO Bob Iger's rights to decide that he didn't like Kimmel's comments and discipline him in some way. It's also within the rights of broadcast station owners to decide they don't want to carry Kimmel. Which is what both Nexstar Media Group and Sinclair, which collectively own dozens of ABC affiliates, announced before Disney said it was taking Kimmel off the air.What is not right is a government regulator urging both Disney and the broadcast station owners to do that — and threatening to make life difficult for them if they didn't.
The Jimmy Kimmel fallout is ramping up. Get caught up here:Here's what Jimmy Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk on his late-night show that got him pulled off the airThere's a $6.2 billion deal looming over Jimmy Kimmel's suspensionLate-night TV is under threat from Trump and a precarious business modelThese are the demands ABC-affiliate Sinclair is making to air Jimmy Kimmel again
"We can do this the easy way or the hard way," Carr said in an interview with right-wing podcaster Benny Johnson on Wednesday. After Kimmel's suspension, Carr sent me a statement praising Nexstar in particular. Then he went on Fox News, where he complained about late-night hosts in general: "They went from being court jesters that would make fun of everybody in power to being court clerics and enforcing a very narrow political ideology."
FCC Chairman Brendan Carr is pressuring media companies to do what Donald Trump wants.
Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, Inc via Getty Images
I don't really think we need to belabor this point, but imagine the world where a Democratic president's administration did the same thing: You'd hear, quite rightly, a riot of complaints from the right (and hopefully everyone) about First Amendment violations, government censorship, and the death of free speech. Maybe they'd compare it to Saudi Arabia forcing Netflix to take down a TV show that criticized its crown prince.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
It's that simple. And that bad.
Carr, by the way, always notes that his agency only regulates broadcast media — which means he doesn't have anything to say about cable channels, like the one Fox News operates. And he doesn't regulate internet companies — so he doesn't have anything to say about Johnson's YouTube show.But the way things are headed, I'm not sure those distinctions are going to matter.Trump, unrestrainedThat's because the Trump administration has made it quite clear that it wants institutions of every stripe — colleges, law firms, media companies, giant tech companies — to operate according to Trump's desires. Sometimes it tries to justify those decisions with legal arguments, but oftentimes Trump simply makes it clear that this is what he wants.
Which is what he did after Kimmel's silencing on Wednesday, calling on Comcast's NBC to shut down Jimmy Fallon's and Seth Meyers' late-night shows as well.That's the kind of thing Trump has called for many times in the past — including in his first presidency. But up until his reelection last fall, he never flexed the muscles to make it happen. Now he has people around him willing to act on his demands, and is learning that he can often get his way."You have a lot of hate in your heart. Maybe they will come after ABC," Trump told ABC News reporter Jonathan Karl earlier this week — noting that last year, after Trump was elected but before he was inaugurated, ABC's parent company Disney paid Trump $16 million to settle a defamation suit.
That's a case Disney almost certainly would have fought in any other circumstance. But if it was meant to make peace with the new administration, it didn't work.Here let's point out that not every Trump target has folded. For instance: Gannett, the publisher that owns The Des Moines Register, and pollster Ann Selzer are continuing to fight a spurious suit Trump filed last year. The New York Times says it will fight an equally dubious suit Trump filed against it this week.But we're just eight months into the second Trump presidency, and he's already crossed lines that would have been hard to imagine before he came back to the White House. It's hard not to imagine things will get worse.
Recommended video
Policy
Donald Trump
Politics
More
Disney
ABC
Regulation
TV
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account