The Fed Cuts Interest Rates for the First Time This Year - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Economy
The Fed cuts interest rates by 25 basis points after disappointing job growth — and mounting political pressure
By
Allie Kelly
Chair Jerome Powell announced The Fed's latest interest rate decision.
Win McNamee/Getty Images
2025-09-17T18:00:24Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The Federal Reserve announced a quarter-point interest rate cut, the first of 2025.
The decision follows slowing job growth and rising inflation, challenging the Fed's dual mandate.
Criticism from investors and political pressure influenced the Fed's decision to cut rates.
America is getting a highly-anticipated interest rate change — the first cut of the year.
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell announced Wednesday that the central bank will slice rates by a quarter percentage point. The call aligns with expectations: CME FedWatch projected a near-100% chance of a September policy shift in the days before the meeting.The Federal Open Market Committee cited slowing job growth as a key reason for the cut, despite inflation heating up once more. The Fed's goal is to keep employment and price increases in balance, a dual mission that has been difficult in recent months.
"Over the course of this year, we've kept our policy at a restrictive level. And we were able to do that because the labor market was in a strong position with strong job creation," Chair Jerome Powell said Wednesday. "I can no longer say that."Powell said the central bank's decisions to hold rates steady for the previous five meetings this year was largely due to uncertainty about President Donald Trump's trade plans. He added at the press conference that "we were right to wait to see how tariffs and inflation and the labor market evolved," but "the marked slowing in the both supply of and demand for workers is unusual," and calls for a less restrictive policy position.Borrowers hope Wednesday's rate change will provide relief as many economic indicators hit a slump. The consumer price index is at its highest rate since January, the US added far fewer jobs than expected this summer, consumer sentiment is dipping, and job vacancies can't keep up with the number of Americans looking for work. Powell said the latest revisions gave the Fed "very different picture of the risks of the labor market" than they had earlier this year. Though not all is doom and gloom: GDP is recovering from an early-year plateau and unemployment is still historically low.
The Fed's economic projections released Wednesday penciled in two more normal-sized rate cuts for the year, with one member aiming to cut rates down by another 1.25% — far more than any other voting members. Before the announcement, FedWatch indicated that market participants thought there was a roughly 65% chance of three cuts by the end of 2025, one for each of the remaining meetings this year, including September's.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Powell has been under pressure to cut ratesPowell's pattern of keeping rates steady has been divisive, prompting criticism from investors, fellow Fed leaders, and the White House.Two Fed Governors — Michelle Bowman and Christopher Waller — dissented to July's hold call, citing "signs of less dynamism and slowing economic growth." It was a departure from the Federal Open Market Committee's typical unanimous decision-making.
Trump has also been vocal about his desire for an interest rate cut. In a September 15 Truth Social post, Trump wrote that "Too Late" Powell "MUST CUT INTEREST RATES, NOW, AND BIGGER THAN HE HAD IN MIND."Alongside putting pressure on Powell, the president has called on Fed Governor Lisa Cook to resign, alleging that she committed mortgage fraud. A September 13 Reuters report found documents showing her second property was listed as a vacation home, not a primary residence, contrary to the allegations. Cook remains in her seat, and Powell declined to comment on the case.Stephen Miran, chair of the White House's Council of Economic Advisors and Trump appointee, was narrowly confirmed as a new Fed governor by the Senate on Monday. He will replace Adriana Kugler, who resigned in August.
Miran dissented to Wednesday's call, preferring a half-percentage-point cut. It was his first meeting as a voting member of the Fed.These leadership changes could give the White House more sway over monetary policy in the long run, though Powell said disagreements among committee members is "understandable and natural in the current situation."It's unlikely that a single rate cut will have an immediate impact on consumers. Economists have told Business Insider that Americans may have to wait for multiple cuts before they see any substantial change in mortgage rates, auto loans, savings, or credit.
Powell has emphasized that the Fed's rate decisions will continue to be based on in-the-moment economic data."The Committee remains united in pursuing our dual mandate goals. We are strongly committed to maintaining our independence," Powell said Wednesday. "It's deeply in our culture to do our job based on the incoming data and never consider anything else."
Recommended video
Markets
Interest Rates
Federal Reserve
More
Jerome Powell
Trump
Inflation
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account