China targets brain computer interface race with new standard — groundwork could lead to breakthroughs as soon as 2027 | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Artificial Intelligence
China forms AI alliances to cut U.S. tech reliance
Tech Industry
The White House eyes chip tracking to curb AI hardware smuggling to China amid enforcement gaps
GPUs
Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market
Artificial Intelligence
Huawei releases new tool to get Chinese firms around crushing HBM export blacklist
GPUs
China advances toward tech independence with new homegrown 6nm gaming and AI GPUs
Wearable Tech
Alterego demoes ‘world’s first near-telepathic wearable' that enables 'typing at the speed of thought'
Artificial Intelligence
China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks
Artificial Intelligence
China is converting farmland into data centers as part of $37 billion effort to centralize AI compute power
Tech Industry
OpenAI CEO Sam Altman says that export controls alone won’t hold back China's AI ambitions
Artificial Intelligence
Top China silicon figure calls on country to stop using Nvidia GPUs for AI
Artificial Intelligence
Chinese social media firms comply with strict AI labelling law
GPUs
Nvidia reportedly shows China-specific B30 chips with 80% of the performance of the standard Blackwell GPU to the U.S. government
Semiconductors
China could be the world's top semiconductor foundry hub by 2030
GPUs
China raises security concerns over Nvidia's H20 Chips
Artificial Intelligence
China bans its biggest tech companies from acquiring Nvidia chips, says report
Peripherals
Wearable Tech
China targets brain computer interface race with new standard — groundwork could lead to breakthroughs as soon as 2027
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
18 September 2025
It will take effect from January 1, 2026
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Getty / Yuichiro Chino)
China appears to be moving fast to establish itself as a brain computer interface (BCI) leader. The nation's latest advance is the release of a medical device industry standard, the ‘Medical Device Terminology Using Brain-Computer Interface Technology,’ reports IT Home (machine translation).While many BCI headlines revolve around the Elon Musk-backed Neuralink system, increasingly, we are seeing breakthrough advances from China. Earlier this year, we reported on a tetraplegic patient skillfully playing racing games, and another subject enjoying complex PC games such as Black Myth: Wukong and Honor of Kings.For a while now, China has let it be known that it will try to coordinate its broad range of BCI research and development talents and commercial enterprises for the benefit of its industry on a wider scale. Earlier this month, we reported on a significant milestone towards this goal, with a state-backed blitz coordinating ministries, planners, and regulatory bodies, and laying out 17 steps from R&D to commercialization.
You may like
China forms AI alliances to cut U.S. tech reliance
The White House eyes chip tracking to curb AI hardware smuggling to China amid enforcement gaps
Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market
Returning to our headline news, and another piece of the jigsaw puzzle has been slotted into place. According to the source, China’s equivalent of the FDA will implement the new BCI standard from January 1, 2026.An excerpt from the official release shows that the new standard, number YY/T 1987 – 2025, concerns “Medical devices using brain computer interface technology.” As with computing, setting a standard in any field can be a vital advantage to early adopters in the market. Standards setters can earn a range of advantages, and widespread use and adoption of useful early standards can establish an entity (company, country) as a clear leader.The long walk from 'what if' to 'what is'There’s still a way to go, from planning to execution of this broad strategy. And, of course, the acceptance of China-established standards outside the country. However, should everything fall into place, China predicts most technical hurdles to be cleared by 2027. Moreover, it expects to incubate two to three leading BCI enterprises with global reach by 2030.In the real world, we know there can be a technological or performance gulf between China's claims and China's results. So it seems healthy to throw a year or two onto the stated projections to account for that, and the typical extra distance between inspiration and implementation. Having healthy BCI competition from China could make such devices more accessible to patients in the rest of the world.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See all comments (1)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
China forms AI alliances to cut U.S. tech reliance
The White House eyes chip tracking to curb AI hardware smuggling to China amid enforcement gaps
Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market
Huawei releases new tool to get Chinese firms around crushing HBM export blacklist
China advances toward tech independence with new homegrown 6nm gaming and AI GPUs
Alterego demoes ‘world’s first near-telepathic wearable' that enables 'typing at the speed of thought'
Latest in Wearable Tech
Wearable finger mouse designed to deliver precision with no flat surface required
Alterego demoes ‘world’s first near-telepathic wearable' that enables 'typing at the speed of thought'
New portable cassette player comes loaded with modern features like Bluetooth, USB-C, and a rechargeable battery
AI-powered Catlog smart collar now notifies you if your cat feels stressed
Xreal One Pro Review: Segment-leading AR glasses with 6DoF support — but high price limits appeal
China launches first-ever invasive brain-computer interface clinical trial
Latest in News
China's latest GPU arrives with claims of CUDA compatibility and RT support
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
jackt
Do they test it on prisoners ?
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.