Kim Bussing, Author at Taste of Home
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Kim Bussing
Tucson, AZ
School: University of Arizona
Expertise: Baking; beer, wine & cocktails; product testing; cleaning & organizing; home decor; health & wellness; food news; grocery shopping; restaurants; travel
Follow:
Kim Bussing
10 years of experience covering food and drink with an emphasis on wine and cocktails
Written numerous guides about gift baskets and care packages for all occasions, interviewing gift experts and relationship experts to find the perfect present
Written numerous holiday guides on food, wine, Advent calendars, and more
Creative consultant for hospitality and food companies including a vegan meal delivery company and a small cookie bakery
Former editor at Queensland Magazines
Writer for Taste of Home, Clean Plates, Modern Farmer, Reader's Digest and Seattle Refined
Experience
Kim is a writer and creative strategist with more than a decade of experience publishing content about food and drink. She has written about food and wine for top brands, including Hilton, Marriott and KitchenAid. Kim also writes about health and wellness topics, home decor and baking. For Taste of Home, she’s tackled all kinds of recipes, plus articles about canned wines, cocktail kits, wine Advent calendars and much more. Kim’s passion is bringing together nutrition and joy in every meal, and she’s always on the hunt for the perfect gluten-free cinnamon roll. Her first series, The Princess Swap, is forthcoming from Penguin Random House in 2025.
Education
Georgetown University, bachelor's degrees in English, psychology and business administration
University of Arizona, master's in fiction
Taste of Home Editorial Policies
Taste of Home, a Trusted Media Brand, has been a reliable source for recipes, cooking tips and entertaining advice for more than 30 years. Every month, our content inspires well over 20 million home cooks to get creative in the kitchen. Each one of our 40 thousand recipes has gone through a rigorous testing and approval process to ensure we’re sharing the very best. Every snack, ingredient and product we recommend is tested by our team of culinary experts and professional product testers—the best of the best earn our Test Kitchen-Preferred seal of approval. Learn more about Taste of Home and our Test Kitchen and editorial teams.
Articles & Recipes
14 Recipes for Food to Eat When Power Is Out No electricity? No problem! From major storms to local blackouts, the inconvenience of a power outage doesn't have to leave you feeling, well, powerless. These recipes will provide plenty of food to eat when power is out.
OXO Coffee Grinder Review: Powerful and Perfect for Small Spaces Meet the coffee grinder that was named our best space-saving option. The OXO coffee grinder is sleek and sturdy, and packs a caffeinated punch without taking up much room on the counter.
Krups Coffee Grinder Review: The Quietest Option We Tested "Coffee grinder" and "silent" don't usually appear in the same sentence, but the Krups coffee grinder was by far the quietest option we tested.
More Articles
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box