This Apple Watch setting keeps me from annoying my partner during work sprints | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
This Apple Watch setting keeps me from annoying my partner during work sprints
Constant timers help me work faster, but they bother my partner, so I turned noisy alerts into private wrist taps. Here's how.
Written by
David Gewirtz, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 6:19 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysApple Watch timer boosts productivity but annoys partners.Silent mode mutes alerts while preserving wrist haptics.Haptics keep reminders private, and household peace intact.I love me some timers. One of the secrets to how I manage my day is that I set timers for everything.I set them for appointments, sure. But I also set them to remind me when to get started on a phase of work. I set them to remind me when to eat a meal. I set them to remind me when to take my medicine. I set them to wake me up from naps. I even set them to limit how much time I dig around on Facebook or doom scroll on the Drudge Report as a break from work.
Sometimes I use Alexa to set alarms on one of my Amazon devices, but those can (and do) disturb my wife. So instead of using Alexa, I've taken to using the Timers and Alarms apps on my Apple Watch.Also: I tested the Apple Watch Series 11 for a week - here's my buying advice nowThese have the benefit of going off on my wrist. Don't underestimate that value. Setting alarms or timers on Alexa tends to limit the notification to the room in which the Alexa device resides. But alarms and timers on the Apple Watch follow me everywhere, even into that room.
But here's the thing that took me a little while to fully grok. Even though the alarm is on my wrist, my wife could still hear it if she was in the same room. It got particularly annoying when we were both in our office/family room and she was on a Zoom call, and I had a timer going off every 10 minutes to help me push through some work speed run or another.
Yes, I do things like set my timer for 15 minutes and try to write five paragraphs in that time. I set the timer for 10 minutes and answer as many emails as I can in 10 minutes. I set the timer for 20 minutes and see how many to-do items I can knock off in that time.
My wife is a saint.
Also: I tested the Apple Watch Ultra 3 to figure out who should upgrade - here's my adviceBut even the astonishing patience and tolerance that she exhibits to me has limits. My tenacious timer tactic can get tedious for my timeless teammate.
Silent mode
Fortunately, there's a setting for that. Just press the side button on your watch (the long one, not the digital crown). Then tap the bell icon and make sure it has a line through it.
Screenshot by David Gewirtz/ZDNETThis mutes all alerts, notifications, and sound effects. Whenever you're concerned about bothering your partner, turn on Silent mode.
There is an important caveat to this. Basically, your watch won't be silent if it's charging. Alarms and timers will sound when charging, even if you have your watch set to Silent mode.
Also: Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it downBut the real trick is to turn on haptics. Haptics (the little tap-tap, buzz-buzz on your wrist) will still trigger when the watch is on your wrist, even if you're in Silent mode.
Turn on your haptics
To do this, go to Settings on your Watch and scroll down to Sounds & Haptics. Tap it.
Screenshot by David Gewirtz/ZDNETTap the Haptics button.
Screenshot by David Gewirtz/ZDNETYou can get by with Haptics set on Default. That works well, but I like it set on Prominent because it's a little bit more noticeable when it taps on my wrist.
Screenshot by David Gewirtz/ZDNETAs long as you don't set Haptics to Off, this tactic works.
My approach
I leave Silent mode on all the time. When I take my watch off, I always put it on the charger, so I can hear any alerts and notifications. And when it's on my wrist, I get taps that get my attention without disturbing my spouse.
Also: This new AirPods Pro feature makes me question why I still wear an Apple WatchDomestic tranquility. Silencing all those timers does indeed provide for a more perfect union.
What about you? Do you rely on timers and alarms throughout the day? Have you tried using your Apple Watch (or another wearable) instead of devices like Alexa or your phone? Do you prefer haptics or sound when it comes to alerts? And most importantly, how do you balance your need for reminders with keeping peace at home? Let us know in the comments below.
You can follow my day-to-day project updates on social media. Be sure to subscribe to my weekly update newsletter, and follow me on Twitter/X at @DavidGewirtz, on Facebook at Facebook.com/DavidGewirtz, on Instagram at Instagram.com/DavidGewirtz, on Bluesky at @DavidGewirtz.com, and on YouTube at YouTube.com/DavidGewirtzTV.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I compared the two best smartwatches on the market - here's how Apple Watch Series 11 wins
This new AirPods Pro feature makes me question why I still wear an Apple Watch
Own a Samsung smartwatch? This 30-second fix will keep it running like new
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use