Are You Making These 5 Common Portfolio Mistakes? | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Portfolio Sprawl
A Redundant Individual-Stock Portfolio
Also-Ran Mutual Funds
Asset Allocation Not Informed by the Plan
Suboptimal Asset Location
Home
Portfolios
Are You Making These 5 Common Portfolio Mistakes?
Are You Making These 5 Common Portfolio Mistakes?
Identifying problems in real-world portfolios—and how to fix them.
Christine Benz
Sep 24, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Microsoft Corp
(MSFT)
Amazon.com Inc
(AMZN)
Apple Inc
(AAPL)
Some investors may subtract from their take-home returns with poorly timed purchases and sales, but I’ve generally observed that investors get a lot more right than they get wrong. They do their homework, and they populate their portfolios with low-cost mutual funds and exchange-traded funds. They tend to be pretty hands-off, and if they delve into niche investments, they usually limit them to a small share of their portfolios. Of course, I wouldn’t rule out that Morningstar.com readers are more sophisticated than most investors, but I’d push back on the idea of the individual investors as dumb-money performance-chasers. It’s not just a caricature; I think it’s wrong.At the same time, there are some issues that I’ve seen again and again in investors’ portfolios. Here are some of the most common ones.Portfolio SprawlThis is by far the biggest issue that I observe: too many accounts, too many holdings, too much redundancy. The unwieldy-portfolio problem isn’t just the domain of those who have been investing a long time and have amassed a lot of assets; I also see it with more-modest portfolios. (For the latter group, the armchair psychologist in me can’t help but wonder if holding a lot of securities—even if the amounts invested in them are quite small—provides people with a feeling of wealth.) Tax-deferred retirement accounts are the most common source of account duplication, thanks to the fact that most people have multiple employers in their lifetimes, so IRAs and 401(k)s stack up. Those can readily be collapsed into a single IRA (or one Roth and one traditional IRA, if Roth accounts are in the mix). For portfolios with more holdings than are truly necessary, I often find myself leaning on index funds as a simple way to clean everything up while achieving diversification and the desired asset-class exposures. (My Minimalist portfolios depict sensible asset-allocation mixes for retired and younger investors.) For smaller accounts—for example, the orphan spousal IRA with $15,000 in it—I often look to internally diversified all-in-one funds such as target-date or lifecycle funds.A Redundant Individual-Stock PortfolioA subproblem I often see in cases of portfolio sprawl is a basket of large-cap individual stocks that all but duplicates what’s already in the mutual funds or ETFs in the portfolio. Mega-cap stocks like Apple AAPL, Amazon.com AMZN, and Microsoft MSFT are common holdings, and they’re also big positions in most US stock funds; those three take up about 17% of the S&P 500 and a bit less of total market indexes today. I suppose that some investors might have good reason to double down on the market’s biggest names, but I mostly see extra risk (the most highly valued stocks in the market usually don’t trade cheaply) and oversight responsibilities associated with monitoring the individual stocks. For those reasons, the “afterthought stock portfolio” usually goes on the cutting-room floor when I do makeovers.Less common these days are the “individual investor/financial advisor as portfolio manager” portfolios—baskets of enough individual securities to populate a whole mutual fund. I know that plenty of longtime Morningstar.com readers build bespoke portfolios in this fashion, aiming to forgo the management fees that accompany funds and perhaps take advantage of the small investor’s biggest advantage: patience. But if you go this route, make sure you’re willing to put in the time to keep tabs on your holdings, and that you have a plan in place in case you’re no longer able to handle the management responsibilities. Also, do an honest accounting of your performance, comparing your long-run results to an inexpensive index mutual fund that’s focused on the same part of the market. (Everyone—not just individual-stock investors—should be using a custom benchmark to assess what value they’re adding with security selection.) Also-Ran Mutual FundsI mentioned earlier that investors generally do a good job of being hands-off with their investments, and that kind of patience usually redounds to the benefit of their long-run returns. But I’ve also observed cases when investors were too patient and hands-off: They purchased mutual funds and set up their portfolios a number of years ago and apparently never looked at or touched them again. The telltale signs are when a fund has had multiple manager changes, extended runs of poor returns, and huge asset outflows—sometimes all at once—and yet it still sits in the portfolio. I’m not talking about short-term underperformance, which can actually be a buying opportunity if the underlying management team and strategy remain solid; I’m talking about lemons that earn Negative Morningstar Medalist Ratings. The lesson is that even very hands-off investors should take a look at their portfolios once in a while to assess their overall asset allocations, make sure the savings or spending plan is on track, and yes, prune losers.Asset Allocation Not Informed by the PlanAnother issue that I see frequently—but one that’s a bit harder to fix—is when a portfolio’s asset allocation doesn’t connect with the investor’s actual plans. The most frequent example is when an individual is getting close to or in retirement, yet the portfolio doesn’t contain enough safe(r) assets to address the anticipated portfolio spending. Many such investors have enjoyed wonderful gains in stocks for decades, so they’re hesitant to derisk their portfolios in favor of assets with lower return potential. (And let’s be honest, bonds haven’t made a great case for themselves over the past few years.)But sequence risk is a big issue for the soon-to-retire and newly retired, in that overspending from a portfolio that’s simultaneously declining reduces the probability that the assets will last through the whole of someone’s retirement time horizon. That’s why I like the idea of aligning the portfolio with anticipated spending needs, creating a runway of safe assets that the retiree could “spend through” if a bear market for stocks materialized early on in their retirements. That’s the Bucket approach to retirement portfolio construction that I often write and talk about, where I organize the portfolio from very safe (cash) assets for short-term spending needs to bonds for intermediate-term expenditures to volatile equity assets for long-term growth and inflation protection. In a similar vein, Morningstar’s Role in Portfolio Framework can help you think about your holdings through the lens of the purpose they serve in your portfolio. Suboptimal Asset LocationIn addition to issues with asset allocation, I also frequently spot asset location problems. That means that investors have housed tax-efficient assets (say, municipal bonds) in tax-sheltered accounts and, more commonly, tax-inefficient assets in taxable ones. The obvious example in the latter category is when investors store high-income-producing assets, especially those whose income is taxed at ordinary income tax rates, like high-yield bonds and REITs, in their taxable accounts.It’s simple enough to adjust tax-sheltered accounts on an as-needed basis, because there are no tax consequences for any changes as long as the assets stay inside the account. Addressing asset-location problems with taxable accounts can be more tricky, though. That’s because the tax-inefficient assets may have appreciated since purchase, so switching to a more tax-efficient mix may trigger a tax bill in and of itself. Before embarking on any sales from a taxable account—to address tax issues or fix any other trouble spots—it’s important to gauge the current and future tax implications of doing so.
Editor’s Note: A version of this article previously appeared on June 23, 2023.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Portfolios
View All
How to Use Cash in a Portfolio A look at the pros and cons of the safest asset class, plus our favorite options.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Should Your 60/40 Portfolio Go Global? Plus: 4 top-rated global 60/40 funds to consider.
Jason Kephart and Susan Dziubinski Sep 18, 2025
How to Use Large-Cap Stocks in a Portfolio
A look at the benefits and risks of these investments, plus our favorite options.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA and Margaret Giles Sep 15, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Christine Benz Director
More from Author
Christine Benz is director of personal finance and retirement planning for Morningstar. She is also the author of How to Retire: 20 Lessons for a Happy, Successful, and Wealthy Retirement. Email Christine at christine.benz@morningstar.com. She reads all of the emails she receives but doesn't always have time to send a personal response.
Are You Making These 5 Common Portfolio Mistakes?
Christine Benz Sep 24, 2025
Dana Anspach and Fritz Gilbert: ‘This Is What a Joyful Retirement Could Feel Like’
Christine Benz Sep 23, 2025
How to Calibrate Your Target Savings Rate
Christine Benz Sep 22, 2025
What Interest Rate Cuts Mean for Your Retirement Portfolio
Christine Benz Sep 18, 2025
Why Index Funds and ETFs Are Good for Retirees
Christine Benz Sep 17, 2025
Larry Jacobson: ‘The Good Things in Our Life Are What Get in the Way of Great Things’
Christine Benz Sep 16, 2025
Cage Match: Traditional Index Funds vs. ETFs
Christine Benz Sep 14, 2025
FAQs on RMDs: What Retirees Need to Know
Christine Benz Sep 11, 2025
Are Target-Date Funds Good Investments?
Christine Benz Sep 10, 2025
Scott Bondurant: Why Mean Reversion Means Your Portfolio Should Have More Stocks
Christine Benz Sep 9, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility