EPA Administrator Zeldin Visits Delaware, Washington, Arizona and Idaho, Advancing Agricultural Innovation, Environmental Protection and American Energy Dominance | US EPA
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know
Here’s how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
JavaScript appears to be disabled on this computer. Please click here to see any active alerts.
Menu
Search
Search
Primary navigation
Environmental Topics
Environmental TopicsAirBed BugsChemicals, Toxics, and Pesticide Emergency ResponseEnvironmental Information by Location HealthLand, Waste, and CleanupLeadMoldRadonResearchScience TopicsWater TopicsA-Z Topic Index
Laws & Regulations
Laws & RegulationsBy Business SectorBy TopicComplianceEnforcementGuidanceLaws and Executive OrdersRegulations
Report a Violation
Report a ViolationEnvironmental ViolationsFraud, Waste or Abuse
About EPA
About EPAOur Mission and What We DoHeadquarters OfficesRegional OfficesLabs and Research CentersPlanning, Budget, and ResultsOrganization ChartEPA History
Breadcrumb
Home
News Releases
EPA Administrator Zeldin Visits Delaware, Washington, Arizona and Idaho, Advancing Agricultural Innovation, Environmental Protection and American Energy Dominance
September 23, 2025
Contact Information
EPA Press Office
(press@epa.gov)
WASHINGTON – U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lee Zeldin visited Delaware, Washington, Arizona and Idaho this week, meeting with state, tribal, and local partners, farmers and other stakeholders about environmental and agricultural challenges, as well as energy and other economic opportunities, impacting the states.On Wednesday, September 17, 2025, Administrator Zeldin began his Delaware visit at Perdue Farms in Georgetown. Zeldin toured a wastewater facility and a chicken house. As one of the largest chicken producers in the United States, Perdue operates processing facilities that supply fresh and processed chicken, turkey, pork, and pet food products to retail, foodservice, industrial, and export markets across all 50 states. The visit came on the heels of EPA’s recent announcement of significant regulatory relief for meat and poultry processors and measures designed to help keep food prices affordable for American families while maintaining essential environmental protections.
Administrator Zeldin concluded his time in Delaware at FMC Stine Research Facility in Newark, FMC Corporation's global research and development headquarters. He toured the greenhouse and molecular laboratory where scientists test and develop innovative crop protection products. Following the recent release of the MAHA Strategy, Administrator Zeldin affirmed his commitment to accelerate innovative and vetted crop-protection products to enhance America’s leading agricultural system. EPA remains steadfast in its commitment to maintaining the gold standard of science across all regulatory programs, ensuring that America's farmers have access to the tools they need while protecting human health and the environment.
On Friday, September 19, 2025, Administrator Zeldin visited Taylor Shellfish Farms on Puget Sound, the largest producer of farmed shellfish in the United States. The family-owned and operated business provided an in-depth look at sustainable shellfish farming operations and processing facilities. The visit underscored how shellfish farming serves as both a thriving economic activity and an essential cultural tradition that is a major contributor to Pacific Northwest communities.
Administrator Zeldin concluded his time in Washington at Skokomish Estuary, where he met with Skokomish Tribal representatives to learn about one of Puget Sound's most comprehensive restoration projects. The large-scale collaborative effort between Tribal, local, state, and federal governments has successfully restored critical habitat for fish, shellfish, and wildlife, demonstrating the power of cooperative federalism in environmental stewardship.
On Sunday, September 21, 2025, Administrator Zeldin joined tens of thousands of proud, patriotic, and faithful Americans in Glendale, Arizona, at a memorial service for Charlie Kirk.
On Monday, September 22, 2025, Administrator Zeldin attended a groundbreaking ceremony at Idaho National Laboratory for the Oklo Aurora Powerhouse. This project demonstrates federal policy, labs, and private sector innovation coming together to strengthen America’s grid by unleashing domestic energy to support everything from defense to industry to critical data infrastructure. In February, Administrator Zeldin announced EPA's Powering the Great American Comeback initiative, five pillars focused on executing President Trump’s vision for EPA. Many of those pillars were at the center of the groundbreaking event. Projects like the Oklo Aurora Powerhouse will serve as the model for scaling clean, reliable nuclear power to meet America's growing energy, data, and defense needs.
Related Links
Headquarters
Read other EPA News Releases about Administrator
Read other EPA News Releases about Agriculture
Contact Us about News Releases
Contact Us about News Releases to ask a question, provide feedback, or report a problem.
Last updated on September 23, 2025
Assistance
Spanish
Arabic
Chinese (simplified)
Chinese (traditional)
French
Haitian Creole
Korean
Portuguese
Russian
Tagalog
Vietnamese
Discover.
Accessibility Statement
Budget & Performance
Contracting
EPA www Web Snapshot
Grants
No FEAR Act Data
Plain Writing
Privacy
Privacy and Security Notice
Connect.
Data
Inspector General
Jobs
Newsroom
Regulations.gov
Subscribe
USA.gov
White House
Ask.
Contact EPA
EPA Disclaimers
Hotlines
FOIA Requests
Frequent Questions
Site Feedback
Follow.