Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Home Internet
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers for 2025
Even the best Wi-Fi routers will struggle with larger spaces. That's where a decent mesh system can make the difference.
Our Experts
Written by
Ry Crist
Article updated on June 11, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking. Expertise Smart home technology | Wireless connectivity Credentials 10 years product testing experience with the CNET Home team
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Editor's note: We think you should be aware that TP-Link routers are under investigation by the US government over security concerns and could be banned in the US this year, according to multiple news reports. The TP-Link Deco W7200 was previously named our best overall choice. While our evaluation of the hardware hasn't changed, out of extreme caution for our readers, we decided to pause it as our top recommendation until we learn more. Read CNET's reporting for more information. Our Picks
Best overall Eero 6 Plus
Jump to details
$240 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget mesh system TP-Link Deco W7200
Jump to details
$169 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best performance Asus ROG Rapture GT6
Jump to details
$300 at Amazon
Jump to details
A solid Wi-Fi 5 system (but don't spend more than $200) Nest Wifi
Jump to details
$47 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best value Netgear Orbi AC1200
Jump to details
$121 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 0 more
Featured Deal What is this?
Up to $200 off TP-Link networking devices TP-Link Networking Devices
See at Best Buy
Table of Contents
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers for 2025
What is the best mesh Wi-Fi system overall?
Best mesh Wi-Fi routers
What is a mesh router?
When do you need a mesh Wi-Fi system?
Mesh routers: Testing their speed and performance
Other mesh routers we've tested
How to choose a mesh Wi-Fi router
The bottom line on mesh routers
Mesh Wi-Fi router FAQs
What is the best mesh Wi-Fi system overall?The best mesh router overall is the Eero 6 Plus. It's a two-piece mesh system that checks many boxes: support for Wi-Fi 6, fast performance and a price tag of $225. Those specs translate to the Eero 6 Plus producing fast, consistent speeds and range in our testing.We've still got lots of routers and mesh systems we'd like to try out, the majority of which use Wi-Fi 6 technology. We've also seen plenty of new systems that support Wi-Fi 7, which promises to make even better use of that 6GHz band for smoother, faster connections. A few of those systems, including the Netgear Orbi 970 series and the Eero Max 7, are already relatively affordable (more on those a little further down the post).Shop around and you'll find mesh routers from Eero, Netgear Orbi, Linksys, Nest and others that support Wi-Fi 6E, which means they can also access bandwidth in the 6GHz band.Expect regular updates to this post as new Wi-Fi mesh routers make their way to market. For now, here are our picks for the top-tested systems you should consider if you're shopping for the best mesh Wi-Fi system options available now.Best mesh Wi-Fi routers
CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
CNET
Best overall
Eero 6 Plus
Eero was an early pioneer of the mesh networking approach, and in 2019, it got scooped up by Amazon. Then, in 2020, we got two new versions of the Eero mesh router: the Eero 6 and Eero Pro 6, both of which added support for Wi-Fi 6.I liked the Eero Pro 6 as an upgrade pick, but the standard Eero 6 wasn't quite strong enough for me to recommend it. Flash forward to the release of the Eero 6 Plus. With a list price of $300 for a three-pack, it offers the same strong pitch as the Eero 6, a relatively affordable and easy-to-use three-piece Wi-Fi 6 mesh setup, complete with a built-in Zigbee radio for connecting things like lights and locks with your network. Best of all, with a faster AX3000 design (up from AX1800 with the Eero 6) and support for full-width, 160MHz channels (up from 80MHz), the performance is significantly improved.In my at-home tests, the Eero 6 Plus returned average download speeds that were in the top 10 of the 30 or so mesh routers I've reviewed here, and none of the systems that outperformed it offer as good a value. Its upload speeds were strong as well, and it works great with previous-gen, Wi-Fi 5 client devices, too; that's important because gadgets like those still comprise the majority of Wi-Fi devices in our homes. With three mesh devices for $300 and a range of up to 4,500 square feet, it's an excellent pick for large homes, where that additional extender will come in handy.  ... Show more
Get it now
$240 at Amazon
$300 at B&H Photo-Video
$298 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Wi-Fi Standard
Wi-Fi 6Speed Rating
AX3000Range
Up to 1,500 sq. ft.Wireless Networking Security
WPA2, WPA3Bands
Dual-Band (2.4 and 5GHz)
Learn more
Eero 6 Plus review
Add to compare
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
Best budget mesh system
TP-Link Deco W7200
Pros
Excellent value for tri-band mesh router
Cons
Only available in a two-pack
For a mesh router upgrade that really feels like an upgrade, you'll want to look for these things: Wi-Fi 6 support and a tri-band design with the usual 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands. You'll also want a second 5GHz band that the system can use as a dedicated backhaul connection for wireless transmissions between the main router and the satellites. The problem is that tri-band Wi-Fi 6 mesh routers like that are typically expensive. Not too long ago, I commended Asus and Eero for bringing the cost of a two-piece system like that down to around $400.Now, TP-Link is doing even better and selling the Deco W7200 mesh router, a tri-band Wi-Fi 6 system that costs $108 for a two-pack. That's an excellent value, and the even better part is that it performs like a champ, with fast, stable speeds and decent range. In addition, the setup process is about as easy as it gets, with satellite extenders that automatically join the mesh as soon as you plug them in.All of that makes the Deco W7200 an outstanding value and one of the first mesh routers I'd point people to if they asked for a recommendation. Just know that it's been in and out of stock this year on Walmart's website, so it might not be immediately available in your area. If it isn't, you could also consider the TP-Link Deco XE75, a similar system that adds Wi-Fi 6E support for $170 for a two-pack. The TP-Link Deco X90, a Wi-Fi 6 mesh system, outperformed the W7200 in my tests and adds in a multi-gig Ethernet jack for high-speed internet plans. It typically sells for $250 for a two-pack, but you can currently find it on sale for $220.  ... Show more
Get it now
$169 at Amazon
$168 at Walmart
$250 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Wi-Fi Standard
Wi-Fi 6Speed Rating
AX3600Range
Up to 5,500 sq. ft. (two devices)Wireless Networking Security
WPA2, WPA3Bands
Tri-Band (2.4 and two 5GHz)
Learn more
TP-Link Deco W7200 review
Add to compare
Ry Crist/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ry Crist/CNET
Best performance
Asus ROG Rapture GT6
Looking for the fastest mesh router on the list? Look no further; it's the Asus ROG Rapture GT6, a Wi-Fi 6 mesh gaming router that costs $400 for a two-pack. In our controlled speed tests on a gigabit network, the GT6 finished with an overall average download speed across all distances of 809Mbps, along with an equally impressive average upload speed of 785Mbps. Nothing else we've tested has delivered speeds as fast as that, not even fancy Wi-Fi 6E systems that cost even more.The key factor setting this mesh router apart (aside from the admittedly gamer-centric design) is the fact that it supports UNII-4 spectra at 5.9GHz, which means that it can tap into some additional bandwidth on the 5GHz band to move your Wi-Fi traffic through a total of three full-width 160MHz channels. As a result, you'll experience faster speeds that do a better job of holding up at range.Beyond that, the GT6 features an excellent suite of features that won't cost you an additional subscription fee, including VPN access, a quality of service engine for prioritizing specific types of web traffic over others, an optional Instant Guard app that can pipe your web traffic back through your home network like a VPN whenever you're on a public Wi-Fi network, a mobile gaming boost mode, parental controls, threat scans and more. Yes, that dot matrix-style ROG logo on the front of each device is also fully configurable to shine in any color you like. The system also features multi-gig Ethernet WAN ports on each device that can accept incoming wired speeds as high as 2.5Gbps, which makes it a very good pick for a multi-gig internet plan.The GT6 isn't cheap, and its ostentatious design (available in black or white) may not be for everyone. Still, it's a justifiable splurge if you're looking for elite Wi-Fi performance at home and a no-brainer upgrade pick if you ever catch the system on sale.  ... Show more
Get it now
$300 at Amazon
$480 at Walmart
Learn more
Asus ROG Rapture GT6 review
Google
Photo Gallery 1/1
Google
A solid Wi-Fi 5 system (but don't spend more than $200)
Nest Wifi
Pros
The Google Nest Wifi is an excellent mesh router system with impressive top speeds, strong performance at range, easy-to-use features and stable band steering. The range-extending Nest Wifi Points come in your choice of three colors and double as Google Assistant smart speakers.
Cons
Similar mesh systems with comparable coverage can be had for less than half as much. Unlike the range extenders, the Nest Wifi Router only comes in white, and it only includes a single spare Ethernet jack.
Several years ago, Google Wifi became a breakout hit thanks to its easy setup and its ability to spread a fast, reliable Wi-Fi connection throughout your home for all of your connected devices. Then, there was Nest Wifi, a second-gen follow-up that adds in faster internet speeds and a better-looking design, plus Google Assistant smart speakers built into each satellite extender. It was an immediate standout in our tests and our top-recommended mesh router prior to the arrival of Wi-Fi 6.There's now a third-gen follow-up called Nest Wifi Pro that adds support for Wi-Fi 6E. That system failed to wow us, and in the meantime, the second-gen Nest Wifi is still a solid mesh router that frequently costs a lot less than before.On average, the Nest Wifi notched the fastest top speeds that I saw in my tests from any Wi-Fi 5 mesh router (and faster speeds than some of the Wi-Fi 6 systems I've tested, too). It also aced our mesh tests, never once dropping my connection as I moved about my home running speed tests. I never caught it routing my connection through the extender when connecting directly to the router was faster, either, which is a common pitfall for mesh connections.Make no mistake, the lack of Wi-Fi 6 support means that the second-gen Nest Wifi is a somewhat dated system at this point, but it does include support for modern features like WPA3 security, device grouping and prioritization, and 4x4 MU-MIMO connections that offer faster aggregate speeds for devices like the MacBook Pro that can use multiple Wi-Fi antennas at once. It's also fully backward-compatible with previous-gen Google Wifi setups, which is a smart touch. All of it is easy to set up, easy to use and easy to rely on. Among dual-band mesh routers, I'd much rather have a top-of-the-line Wi-Fi 5 system than an entry-level Wi-Fi 6 system, and even among the new competition, the Nest Wifi mesh router fits that bill.  ... Show more
Get it now
$47 at Amazon
$49 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Wi-Fi Standard
Wi-Fi 5Speed Rating
AC2200Range
Up to 2,200 sq. ft.Wireless Networking Security
WPA3Bands
Dual-Band (2.4 and 5GHz)
Learn more
Nest Wifi review
Add to compare
Netgear
Photo Gallery 1/1
Netgear
Best value
Netgear Orbi AC1200
Pros
Outstanding value
Surprisingly strong signal strength from the router
Supports Google Assistant and Alexa voice controls
Cons
No dedicated Wi-Fi backhaul band to pass data between router and extender
No Ethernet ports on the extenders, and no USB ports anywhere
A less reliable mesh connection than Nest or Eero
The AC1200 version of Netgear Orbi is a smaller, simpler version of the popular mesh system. It doesn't offer blazing-fast speeds, but the performance is consistent and it costs a lot less than other, fancier Orbi builds.Netgear brought the cost down by sticking with Wi-Fi 5, ditching the built-in Alexa speaker that comes with the Orbi Voice and skipping the tri-band approach and the dedicated 5GHz backhaul band that other Orbi systems use to connect each device in the mesh. I wonder if Netgear missed an opportunity by not branding this system as "Orbi Lite."It all makes for a less robust mesh system than other Orbi setups, but I hardly noticed in my tests. Among the Wi-Fi 5 systems I've tested, the dual-band Netgear Orbi actually notched the fastest top speeds at close range, it kept up with the Nest and Eero in our real-world speed tests and it offered excellent signal strength in the large-size CNET Smart Home. Netgear's app isn't as clean or intuitive as Nest's or Eero's, and the network didn't seem quite as steady as those two as it steered me from band to band in my tests, but those are quibbles at this price. If you just want something affordable -- perhaps to tide you over until you're ready to make the upgrade to Wi-Fi 6 or Wi-Fi 6E -- the most budget-friendly Netgear Orbi definitely deserves your consideration. We've regularly seen the three-piece system selling for under $100 over the past year or two, so try to score it at that price if you can.  ... Show more
Get it now
$121 at Amazon
$91 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Wi-Fi Standard
Wi-Fi 5Speed Rating
AC1200Range
Up to 4,500 sq. ft. (with two satellites)Wireless Networking Security
WPA2Bands
Dual-Band (2.4 and 5GHz)
Learn more
Netgear Orbi AC1200 review
Add to compareWhat is a mesh router?
A mesh router is a network of Wi-Fi routers" target="_self that work together to extend a wireless internet connection throughout your home. In most cases, these are identical routers you place around your house for optimal coverage. These all exist on the same network, so your devices will automatically use the strongest signal available. Typically, mesh systems include two or three routers total. How many you need will depend on the size of your home and the kind of barriers your Wi-Fi signal has to travel through" target="_self. For most homes, two devices will do just fine, but you might opt for three if you need high speeds in both a basement and second-floor office, for example. When do you need a mesh Wi-Fi system?
Mesh Wi-Fi systems are ideal for larger homes with multiple stories. A single router will struggle to travel through walls and floors, so the further you get from the router, the more it will struggle to do basic tasks like streaming video.With multiple devices spread throughout your home, a mesh router is like a team of routers that can relay your wireless traffic back to the modem better than a traditional router. They're particularly good fits for large or multistory homes where your Wi-Fi network has a lot of ground that it needs to cover -- and walls to travel through -- but they can also help boost speeds at range in small- or medium-size homes. And in 2025, there are lots of new, next-gen options on the market, so it's a good time to make the switch.Some of the most consistent mesh router performance we've seen in our tests comes from systems from Eero" target="_blank, which popularized mesh networking before being bought by Amazon in 2019, as well as the latest setups from the TP-Link Deco" target="_blank, Asus ZenWiFi, Netgear Orbi and Google Nest product lines. Mesh systems regularly sold for as much as $500 a few years ago, but now these manufacturers offer multipoint mesh router systems -- including the main router and the additional satellite extenders -- for closer to $200. Though we'd recommend aiming a bit higher, you can even find basic, entry-level mesh systems for as little as $40 per device that can provide a strong Wi-Fi signal throughout your entire home. Mesh routers: Testing their speed and performance
Router manufacturers make big claims about top speeds, many of which can be misleading or at least confusing when you're shopping for a new one. That's why we put every router we review through our own, independent speed tests in a real-world test environment. For much of the past few years of working from home, that test environment has been my house, but in 2025, CNET has been working to relocate those tests to our test lab, where we can do more to control for variables in the environment.Specifically, we've set up a five-room, 1,300-square-foot test space for home networking tests, with incoming gigabit internet speeds (940Mbps downloads, 880Mbps uploads). It's not as big as the multi-bedroom, multistory homes where mesh routers really shine, but it's still enough space to see a separation between the top mesh systems on the market.To get there, we set each mesh system up in the same locations within the environment, and then we started running Wi-Fi speed tests across each of the five rooms. That includes tests during morning, afternoon and evening hours, and tests to a variety of client devices, including both Wi-Fi 6 and Wi-Fi 6E devices. For half of my tests, I start by connecting in the same room as the router and then work away from it -- for the other half, I start by connecting at the farthest point from the router and then work towards it. In the end, I average it all together to get a good, comprehensive look at how each system performs.
Ry Crist/CNETYou can see those results for yourself in the bar graph above, which shows the overall average Wi-Fi 6 upload and download speeds for each system we've tested. We're still working to retest the top-rated systems from previous years alongside new systems as they come out, so you can expect regular updates to this post whenever I've got new data to share.If you're living with a slow ISP connection and you don't need Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E, or a fancy tri-band build, then there's nothing wrong with skipping those upgrades and going with something simpler to save some money. I've tested a number of bargain picks like that in recent years. Among them, the AC1200 version of the Netgear Orbi" target="_blank — available in a three-pack for $129 — is my top recommendation, with the right balance of performance and value.If you want to get dirt cheap, you could opt for something like the Vilo" target="_blank system, which costs around $40 per device, plus shipping. It's the slowest mesh router I've ever tested, which wasn't surprising, but it was still functional and able to maintain workable average download speeds at range. Other mesh routers we've tested
We test lots of routers at CNET HQ -- mesh and otherwise -- so we're constantly updating our rundowns of the top systems on the market. I'll note any new mesh systems we test here as we go, along with a quick summary of my takeaways. Please note that this list includes several systems that were tested at my home instead of our latest test setup.Arris Surfboard Max AX6600: Another high-powered Wi-Fi 6 system with an upright, cylindrical design, the Surfboard Max Pro was able to deliver fast speeds to other Wi-Fi 6 devices in my tests, but the performance was inconsistent with earlier-gen Wi-Fi 5 devices. I also didn't like the Ethernet" target="_self jacks on the bottom of the device, which force you to bend your cables to the extreme in order to plug the router in.Asus ZenWifi XD5: The ZenWifi XD6 is close to the Eero 6 Plus in both specs and price and at $248 for a three-pack, it's one of the more affordable Wi-Fi 6 devices you'll find. Its performance was less consistent across the home. In the garage, I only got 284Mbps upload speeds with the XD5 compared to 494Mbps in the living room, while the Eero 6 Plus returned 706 and 486Mbps for the same price.Asus ZenWifi XD6" target="_blank: The middle child from the Asus family of Wi-Fi 6 mesh routers, the ZenWifi XD6 is a dual-band mesh system. It won't give you the tri-band build of the ZenWifi XT8, nor will you get that system's multi-gig Ethernet jack. Still, the system performed as well as any dual-band mesh router I had ever tested when I first reviewed it, so it isn't a bad pick by any stretch. Available for around $200, it's a reasonable price for a high-performance system.Asus ZenWifi XT8: One of the most powerful ZenWifi systems, the tri-band XT8 performed well in our speed tests, and was among the first mesh routers to include multi-gig Ethernet WAN ports on each device. Available in a two-pack for $260, the former CNET Innovation Award winner is a reasonable upgrade pick, but it isn't quite as good a value as the TP-Link Deco W7200 or the Eero 6 Plus.
The Asus ZenWifi AX Mini costs less than other ZenWifi systems that support Wi-Fi 6, but performance was scattered in our speed tests. Ry Crist/CNETAsus ZenWifi AX Mini" target="_blank: Also known as the ZenWifi XD4, the ZenWifi AX Mini is a pint-sized smaller sibling to the larger and more powerful ZenWifi XD6 and XT8 systems recommended above. Performance was scattered in my tests, with annoying speed drop-offs whenever I'd connect at a distance, so it isn't as recommendable as other ZenWifi offerings.Eero 6" target="_blank: Amazon's first Wi-Fi 6 mesh router, the Eero 6 hit the market back in 2020, but it didn't blow us away during our tests. Eero systems that followed it did a lot better in my speed tests and they offer the same smart home perks, like built-in radios for Zigbee and Thread.
The Eero Pro 6E is a great pick for gigabit networks, but most homes would be just fine sticking with the less expensive Eero 6 Plus. Ry Crist/CNETEero Pro 6E" target="_blank: The Eero Pro 6E did an excellent job in our speed tests, finishing toward the top in just about every category while also delivering a noticeable speed bump to Wi-Fi 6E devices that can connect over the 6GHz band. The smaller-sized Eero 6 Plus is the better value for most households, but if you're a Wi-Fi 6E power user with gigabit speeds at home, then upgrading to the Eero Pro 6E merits strong consideration.Eero Max 7: It's Amazon's newest, largest and priciest Eero mesh system, and it adds in support for Wi-Fi 7, the new Wi-Fi standard that promises to build upon Wi-Fi 6E's foray into the 6GHz band. In our initial speed tests, the Max 7 was capable of hitting blazing-fast speeds, but it didn't sustain those highs throughout testing. In fact, on multiple occasions when I'd connect from the test floor's garage, the farthest room from the main router, the system would connect me through the extender on the 2.4GHz band, which caused speeds (and the Max 7's overall position on my leaderboard) to plummet. Worse, the system kept me on 2.4GHz even after I'd returned to the same room as the router. What's more, when we reran our tests with a fancy Wi-Fi 7 test device, speeds were actually slower than what we saw on a Wi-Fi 6 or Wi-Fi 6E device. I'll continue testing this system to see if the mesh improves, but for now, it's not a splurge that I'd recommend.Linksys Velop MX2000: Available in a two-pack for $133, the Linksys Velop MX2000, also known as the Velop Atlas 6, is decent enough as baseline Wi-Fi 6 mesh routers go, but you'll find better value and faster speeds if you shop around.
The Nest Wifi Pro is one of the newest Wi-Fi 6E routers on the market. There's a lot to like about it, but the average speeds were underwhelming among Wi-Fi 6E systems. Ry Crist/CNETNest Wifi Pro" target="_blank: The Nest Wifi Pro mesh router reworks the original Nest Wifi pitch" target="_blank by ditching the built-in Google Assistant smart speakers and adding in access to the 6GHz band via Wi-Fi 6E support. With a built-in Thread radio and robust smart home controls via the Google Home app, it's a decent pick for smart home enthusiasts, and it was as stable a performer as I've seen in my speed tests. Still, those speeds were a bit lackluster, and the system also lacked backward compatibility with previous Nest Wifi and Google Wifi hardware. At $400 for a three-pack, it's a bit expensive for such middle-of-the-road performance.Netgear Orbi AX6000: Originally released as the Netgear Orbi 850 series, and recently updated to the 860 Series, both generations of Netgear's flagship AX6000 mesh router offer strong performance, but I wasn't as impressed with the system's speeds on a gigabit network, where several systems that cost less have managed to outperform it in my tests. Even so, this is one of the most consistent mesh routers I've tested, with reliable speeds from test to test. If that type of steady performance is what you're after, then it belongs high on your list.Netgear Orbi AXE11000" target="_blank: The AXE11000 version of the popular Netgear Orbi router is a high-powered Wi-Fi 6E tank that leads all other routers I've tested in terms of its speeds to Wi-Fi 6E devices. It's a strong performer over plain ol' Wi-Fi 6 too, but not nearly as dominant as you might expect given that it costs over $798 for a three-pack.
Ry Crist/CNETNetgear Orbi 970 series: Netgear's newest flagship, the 970 series is a tower-shaped Orbi system that adds support for Wi-Fi 7, the new Wi-Fi standard that promises to build upon Wi-Fi 6E's expansion into the 6GHz band. The system was just as speedy as expected when I tested it out, but not quite as fast with Wi-Fi 6 devices as the top-performing Asus ROG Rapture GT6. As for Wi-Fi 7 devices, we didn't see notably better performance than Wi-Fi 6 in our initial tests, but it's still very early for the standard. We'll know a lot more once we've had a chance to test additional Wi-Fi 7 setups out, so stay tuned for updates on that front in the coming year. In the meantime, this extremely expensive system is almost certainly overkill for most households.TP-Link Deco X4300 Pro: The Deco X4300 Pro is an impressive system that features some of the best Wi-Fi 6 speeds we've seen, plus multi-gig Ethernet jacks on each device. The Deco W7200 still seems like the better value for most homes, but if you're looking for a step up from that system, put the X4300 Pro on your radar.TP-Link Deco X55 Pro: The X55 Pro shares a lot of similarities with the Eero 6 Plus -- support for Wi-Fi 6, far-reaching range, gigabit Ethernet jacks -- but I lean toward Eero's mesh system for its features like built-in Zigbee radio. The Eero 6 Plus also returned slightly faster speeds in testing. At $190, the X55 Pro is a solid value for a three-piece mesh system, but I'd put it more in "good, not great" territory.TP-Link XE75" target="_blank: TP-Link's first Wi-Fi 6E mesh router, the XE75 did a decent job in our initial tests, though the system's average upload speeds were lower than I'd expected. It's a clear value pick and currently available in a two-pack for $170, so give it a look if you're curious about Wi-Fi 6E but fearful about overspending. I'll update this page once we've retested it in our lab, so stay tuned for that.TP-Link Deco X90" target="_blank: With a multi-gig WAN port and a faster speed rating, the Deco X90 is a midrange upgrade pick over the Deco W7200, and it costs $220 for a two-pack. It performed well in my tests, but not enough that I'd recommend paying $80 more than the Deco W7200 for it.Vilo" target="_blank: The Vilo mesh router was one of the most affordable mesh routers I had ever tested back in 2021 when devices were available for about $20 each. These days, you can snag it for a little less than $40 per mesh device, but you shouldn't expect high speeds from a low-cost Wi-Fi 5 system like this one. In fact, it rang in with the slowest average uploads and downloads among any system I tested it against. Still, it got the job done, so if you just need something dirt cheap, speeds be damned, give it a look.
It isn't a top performer or a value pick, but the Amplifi Alien is a great-looking Wi-Fi 6 mesh router that lets you create a VPN-style connection to your home network when you're traveling, which is a nice, unique feature. Chris Monroe/CNET How to choose a mesh Wi-Fi router
Performance and value are probably the first things you'll look for as you shop for a mesh router, but there are other factors worth taking into consideration as well. Take features, for instance. Mesh routers typically don't come with many unique bells and whistles, but there are some standouts. The Amplifi Alien mesh router from Ubiquiti is a good example. Apart from a unique-looking build, it features touchscreen controls on the front of each device, along with a feature called Teleport that lets you establish a VPN-style connection to your home network when you're traveling. That's a useful trick that lets you make use of your home network's security capabilities when you're connecting to a public Wi-Fi network.Speaking of security, if you're buying a new router, then it's worth looking for one that supports the latest encryption standards. Most of the new models released in the last year or two support WPA3" target="_blank for a stronger defense against things like brute-force hacking attempts; I'd want a model like that if it were me making the upgrade.
Enlarge Image
Most mesh routers are a cinch to set up, with companion apps that walk you through the process in a matter of minutes. Just plug everything in and follow the instructions. Screenshots by Ry Crist/CNETAs for setup, don't worry too much about it, if at all. Just about every new router, mesh or otherwise, will come with a convenient companion app that'll walk you through the setup process in a matter of minutes. From there, you'll have simplified network controls just a few taps away, allowing you to turn a guest network on and off, manage parental controls or change your network password. Just keep in mind that router apps like these will often glean lots of data from your networking habits for marketing and ad-targeting purposes. If you're privacy-minded, it might be worth checking the app's privacy policy to see if you can opt out of data collection altogether.There are a number of other factors that we take into consideration whenever we test a mesh router. Latency" target="_self is a good example. I run each of my speed tests on the same server, which gives me a good, comparative look at how quickly each one is able to send and receive data. Most of the mesh routers I'm testing these days do just fine, with average latency usually coming in between 15ms and 20ms per ping, but some systems will see latency spikes when they're routing your connection through a satellite extender. That means connecting to a mesh system at range might not be the best bet for gamers, or for anyone else particularly concerned with latency.Something else to think about as you shop is data security and privacy. WPA3" target="_blank is the newest encryption standard for web traffic, and most of the newest mesh routers on the market offer it. If you're buying a new router of any kind at this point, that's a standard worth prioritizing. The bottom line on mesh routers
If your Wi-Fi is struggling to reach every room in your house, a mesh Wi-Fi system is the best solution for extending the connection. The best model for most homes is the Eero 6 Plus, a three-piece system that has consistently returned fast speeds in our tests and retails for $300. If you want something powerful that can make the most of a gigabit internet connection, then I'd point you toward the Asus ROG Rapture GT6, which remains the fastest mesh system we've tested here in recent months. At $400 for a two-piece setup, it isn't cheap, but it outperformed fancy Wi-Fi 6E and Wi-Fi 7 systems that cost hundreds more. Mesh Wi-Fi router FAQs
Why should I choose a mesh router instead of a regular router?
With multiple devices working together to spread a strong, usable connection across a larger space, a mesh router is usually better than a single, stand-alone router, especially in medium to large homes. In a home or apartment that's smaller than 1,500 square feet or so, a mesh router might be more hardware than you need.Still, even small homes have dead zones, and mesh routers will help address problem spots like that better than regular routers. My home is 1,300 square feet and is a good example. With an average, single-point router like the one provided by my ISP, my 300Mbps fiber speeds typically plummet to double or even single digits in the back rooms farthest from the router. With a mesh router, I can still hit triple-digit speeds in those back rooms, which are about as fast as when I'm connecting closer to the router.
...Read more
Does mesh Wi-Fi replace your router?
Yes; a mesh router will replace your existing router. To set one up, you'll need to connect one of the devices in the system to your modem using an Ethernet cable, just like your current router. From there, you'll plug in the other mesh devices in the system elsewhere in your home, so they can start boosting the signal and relaying your traffic back to the modem-connected device whenever you're connecting from more than a few rooms away.
...Read more
What's the difference between a mesh Wi-Fi system and a Wi-Fi extender?
While both aim to spread your Wi-Fi connection around your home more completely than a basic router, a mesh Wi-Fi system is more effective at doing it. Mesh systems are complete replacements for your Wi-Fi router, while an extender simply re-broadcasts your existing Wi-Fi signal in another part of the home. Your devices won't automatically switch between the two Wi-Fi broadcasts, so you'll have to manually switch every time you want to use the Wi-Fi upstairs. With a mesh system, your devices will automatically connect to the closest node.
...Read more
How long do mesh routers last?
A good router, mesh or otherwise, should last at least five years, if not longer. The key thing is to watch for regular firmware updates from the manufacturer to keep your network security up to date. If your router isn't receiving those, then it's probably a good idea to start looking for a new one.The other thing to watch for is technological improvements to Wi-Fi itself, which might make it worthwhile to upgrade to a model that's newer and more advanced. Wi-Fi typically gets a big update once every several years.
...Read more
Do you lose speed with mesh Wi-Fi?
Just like with a regular router, your mesh Wi-Fi speeds will dip as you move farther away from whichever device in the setup is wired to your modem. That said, the satellite extenders will help boost speeds at range by providing a more reliable connection back to the modem-connected router. The end effect is that your speeds should be more consistent throughout your home, with fewer (if any) dead zones where coverage drops out altogether.
...Read more
What are the disadvantages of a mesh network?
Mesh routers are good for offering consistent speeds throughout your entire home, and the best of the bunch is capable of hitting gigabit speeds. Single-point, stand-alone routers usually cost less than mesh routers with comparable specs, so they'll typically offer better top speeds for the price.Mesh routers often have fewer ports than single-point routers, too. Some lack USB jacks, and others limit you to only one or two spare Ethernet ports for wired connections to media streamers, smart home bridges and other common peripherals. Some mesh routers feature no additional ports whatsoever on the satellite extenders.You might also experience a slight increase in latency when the system is routing your connection through one of the satellite extenders. In my tests, it usually translates to a small but noticeable bump of a few extra milliseconds per ping.
...Read more
About the Author
Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs Ry Crist Former Senior Editor / Reviews - Labs
Originally hailing from Troy, Ohio, Ry Crist is a writer, a text-based adventure connoisseur, a lover of terrible movies and an enthusiastic yet mediocre cook. A CNET editor from 2013 to 2024, Ry's beats included smart home tech, lighting, appliances, broadband and home networking.
Read full bio
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.