28 Best Gifts for Gamers for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Gift Guide Tech Gaming
28 Best Gifts for Gamers for 2025
CNET's gamers (like me!) have put tons of gaming gear through the grinder. These are my go-to holiday gifts.
Article updated on Mar 10, 2025
Lori Grunin Senior Editor / Advice I've been reviewing hardware and software, devising testing methodology and handed out buying advice for what seems like forever; I'm currently absorbed by computers and gaming hardware, but previously spent many years concentrating on cameras. I've also volunteered with a cat rescue for over 15 years doing adoptions, designing marketing materials, managing volunteers and, of course, photographing cats. Expertise Photography | PCs and laptops | Gaming and gaming accessories
See full bio
Written by Lori Grunin
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Best gaming consoles and VR
Consoles
Sony PlayStation 5 For popular exclusive games like Astro Bot, the PS5 is the way to go (although many of these games eventually make it to PCs much later on). The PS5's big advantage is its modernized, redesigned controller, which gives better haptic feedback. The PS Plus subscription service offers a big, Netflix-like catalog of monthly games, although mostly older ones. The model without a DVD drive (aka the Digital Edition) costs $50 less than the model that includes one; if your recipient wants to play older games or just likes physical copies, they can always attach a drive later.Read our PS5 review and slim PS5 hands-on.
$499 at Amazon
$500 at Best Buy
Close
Consoles
Xbox Series S The smaller, cheaper Series S version of the Xbox plays all the same games as its bigger, pricier brother the Xbox Series X, but does so at 1440p resolution, which lies somewhere between traditional HD and 4K. More importantly, it's great for downloading and playing the huge catalog of Xbox Game Pass games or for free-to-play online games like Fortnite. There's a black model with twice the storage, the Xbox Series S 1TB, for about $50 more, but it's not necessary unless you specifically want to gift the black one or you know your gamer keeps having to delete games because storage is tight. If you want to give the white model, you can always spring for a plug-in drive to go with it.Read our Xbox Series S and Series S 1TB reviews.
$380 at Best Buy
Close
Meta Quest 3S VR headset The Editors' Choice-winning Meta Quest 3S is currently XR-pro Scott Stein's pick for the best entry-level VR headset. Replacing the Quest 2, it's got improved graphics over that model, and is compatible with Quest 3 games and uses the same controllers as it. Its primary drawback compared to the Quest 3 is the lower quality displays, which remain the same as the Quest 2's. The Quest 3 is still a better headset, but the 3S' $300 price tag makes it a more attractive gift option than the $500 Quest 3 and a nice choice for first-time VR players.Read our Meta Quest 3S review.
$300 at Meta
Close
Nintendo
Nintendo Switch 2 handheld game console It's not worth it for a giftee who already owns a Switch, but for first timers the $449 Switch 2 is almost a no-brainer. Almost all existing Switch games play on it and many older games are playing better on it than the older model; it's got the biggest, highest resolution screen to date and more power, among other things. Read our Nintendo Switch 2 review.
$449 at Amazon
Close
Valve Steam Deck OLED I've got a hoard of gaming laptops, a powerful desktop and more, but the Steam Deck OLED is still my go-to gaming device. It's not for everyone -- really just gamers who have large libraries of games from the popular Steam store and whose games are listed as at least playable on the Steam Deck, if not on the Great on Deck list.The more expensive OLED version is worth the extra cost over the older LCD model -- it starts at $549 versus $399 -- for the bigger, better screen, twice as much storage, faster Wi-Fi and longer battery life. But make sure that your giftee wants one, because once it's opened it can't be returned.Read our OLED Steam Deck review.
$649 at Steam
Close
Analogue Pocket For anyone with a pile of old Game Boy games, the Analogue Pocket is a Game Boy revival dream come true. The Pocket plays Game Boy, Game Boy Color and Game Boy Advance cartridges, as well as other retro handheld games, like the Sega Game Gear, with separately sold adapters. A sharp color screen and a battery with USB-C recharging mean games look and play fantastically. A separately sold dock can play games on a TV screen too. Read our Analogue Pocket review.
$220 at Analogue
Close
Virtual Reality Headsets
PlayStation VR 2 Scott Stein says of the PSVR 2, "While the PSVR 2 does need to be tethered, it's quite possibly the best luxury home VR experience that exists right now." That was two years ago, but it's still the only game in town for PlayStation VR gaming. It's got OLED screens, excellent haptic controllers and works with Coke-bottle glasses. All in all, a great addition to anyone's PS5 setup.Read our PSVR 2 review.
$399 at Amazon
$350 at Target
$350 at Best Buy
Close
Even more console recommendationsMeta Quest 3: With better displays than the cheaper 3S in exchange for the higher $500 price tag, the Quest 3 is a better option for more experienced VR players who can appreciate the better graphics. Nintendo Switch OLED: The display is smaller than the newer Switch 2, but the screen on the $375 OLED model has better contrast, which makes graphics pop. Switch 2-specific games that take advantage of its higher-resolution screen and increased power are still pretty thin, so it might be worth saving about $75, depending upon your giftee.Lenovo Legion Go S with SteamOS: An alternative to the Steam Deck -- it runs SteamOS and can play all the same games -- this SteamOS variant of the Legion Go S has a slightly larger screen that I've found makes a huge difference over the Steam Deck OLED for my aging eyes. But even though it's my preferred Steam device, the cheap model is more expensive than the Deck at $650, and the more powerful version is a whopping $900, which makes it hard to recommend over that unless you've got deep holiday pockets.ModRetro Chromatic: Fanboy (and reporter) Imad Khan recommends the $200 Chromatic for its nostalgia value; it tries to replicate the Game Boy experience, not just be a device that can play the games like the Analogue Pocket. It also comes in a rainbow of color options.Best gaming controllers
Gaming Controllers
Xbox Wireless controller This is the controller that comes bundled with the latest Xbox consoles, so it's pretty basic -- no customization or fancy features. But if the person you're gifting to has an Xbox and likes to play side-by-side with friends, or if they just don't like sharing a controller (raises hand) and need a spare, it's nice to go with a matching model (or pick another of our favorite Xbox controllers). Plus, they know it will fit in any dual charger they already have.
$60 at Amazon
$59 at Walmart
$65 at Best Buy
Close
Gaming Controllers
8Bitdo Ultimate 2 Bluetooth According to controller reviewer Jason Cockerham, the Ultimate 2 Bluetooth is the top choice for gaming on the Switch and worth the relatively high $70 price -- any of them. The buttons feel solid, it's comfortable to hold and there are tons of customization options. It's got two-stage Hall Effect triggers and TMR joysticks for better durability and performance over the first generation, along with a multitude of beyond-basic controls. Since it's Bluetooth, it can work with any device, not just the Switch.
$70 at Amazon
Close
Backbone Pro Game controllers that snap onto your phone can be a pain -- even if they attach easily, they make using your phone even briefly in portrait mode difficult -- but they're the slickest, most natural-feeling way to use a controller with your phone. The popular Backbone One is the original, but the follow-up Backbone Pro combines the company's sophisticated software with a design that fixes the biggest issue with the One: the tiny grips that get uncomfortable after a while. It's bigger, but I think it's a reasonable trade-off.Models are available for Android and USB-C iPhones. It's really expensive for its class, though, at $170.Read our Backbone Pro review.
$170 at Backbone
Close
Misc
Razer Kishi V3 Pro Like the Backbone Pro, the $150 V3 Pro snaps onto a phone and connects via USB-C and has bigger grips than you typically find on an on-phone controller for more comfortable long sessions. The V3 Pro is slightly bigger, though, to accommodate attaching to small tablets.Read our Razer Kishi V3 Pro review.
$150 at Amazon
Close
More controllers we likeByowave Proteus: It's expensive -- $360 -- but the Proteus is a very modular controller intended for gamers who can't use a standard controller. Reviewer Sean Booker says he thinks other gamers would have fun with it as well, swapping the modules around (they can be hot swapped) and creating custom configurations you can't get anywhere else. At the moment it's backordered (estimated to ship in November), but it's unique enough that if the idea piques your interest and your budget  can accommodate it, it's worth checking out.CRKD Neo S: The CRKD Neo S is a fun, portable budget gaming controller that is much more impressive than its $50 asking price, though there are some trade-offs. Victrix Pro KO Leverless Fight Stick: Fight-game fan Imad Khan recommends this controller, saying he's "highly impressed" by it, though it's expensive at $280.Best gaming headsets
Bluetooth Headsets
HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless This midpriced headset is solid all around and extremely comfortable, but it stands out from the crowd for excellent battery life -- which can be crucial for hardcore gamers, so they don't have to deal with wires.Read our  HyperX Cloud Alpha Wireless review.
$140 at Walmart
$143 at Amazon
$143 at Best Buy
Close
Logitech G522 Lightspeed I've been using the midpriced G522 for months as my go-to headset at my PC. It's comfortable -- actually, a little loose on my head but that's par for my course -- sounds great, delivers reasonable battery life, has excellent software and doesn't skimp on the RGB lighting like many other wireless models.
$160 at Best Buy
$160 at Logitech
Close
Misc
HyperX Cloud Stinger 2 This remains one of the most comfortable gaming headsets under $100 you'll ever clamp over your ears. For $40, it delivers solid sound and has a flip-to-mute mic.Read our HyperX Cloud Stinger 2 review.
$40 at Amazon
$40 at Best Buy
Close
Headphones
SteelSeries Arctis Nova 5X If you're looking to spend less than $150, the Arctis Nova 5X is currently the model hanging on my hook. The 2.4GHz dongle works with any device that has a USB-C port, It's got Bluetooth and 2.4GHz connection (not simultaneous, though), it comes with a case and has decent battery life; But they stand out for the mobile app which lets you control a lot, including
equalizer presets when used on consoles and EQ on Bluetooth. There's a Nova 5P model for PlayStation or plain-old Nova 5 for PC (they lack the Xbox support) which are basically the same but without features specific to the Xbox.If you're willing to pay a bit more -- anywhere from $114 to $160 -- the Arctis Nova 7 is better, if only because it allows for simultaneous Bluetooth and 2.4GHz. I prefer the dual connections because it can pass through notifications from my phone as well as ringing.Read our SteelSeries Arctis Nova 5X review.
$133 at Best Buy
$133 at Amazon
Close
Best keyboards, mice and more
Keyboards
Logitech G515 Lightspeed TKL Priced around $130 -- some variations are more or less -- the G515 is one of my favorite low-profile keyboards for mainstream gaming and everyday use. I'm even typing on it now. It's very quiet with no wobble and a soft landing, comes with either tactile or linear switches, can connect via Bluetooth and USB as well as a 2.4GHz dongle, is very responsive and wakes up fast, and has sturdy doubleshot PBT keycaps with standard stems. It's even withstood several drops, which wasn't true of my last low-profile fave. Plus, TKL models are smaller than full keyboards, ditching the number pad, so they take up significantly less desk space. A new variation of this keyboard design, the G515 Rapid TKL, is pricier at $170 but uses magnetic switches with the ability to customize actuation and reset points. I haven't tested it yet, but might be more of a hit with the hardcore action gamers on your gift list.
$130 at Amazon
$130 at Best Buy
Close
Mice
Razer Cobra Pro In addition to being a good gaming mouse, this model is noticeably narrower and shorter than Razer's other mice but has a full set of features; plus, it can connect via Bluetooth as well as the 2.4GHz dongle and wired, which makes it a good everyday mouse. It's also a middleweight-- not an ultralight, as most smaller gaming mice tend to be but which can be a little too light for gamers who aren't action diehards.
$130 at Best Buy
$108 at Amazon
$121 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Turtle Beach Vulcan 2 Mini Air Another wireless TKL keyboard, the $108 Vulkan 2 Mini Air is an excellent choice for gamers who like linear optical switches (there aren't any other options) in a full-height design. It stands out for a ton of customization options for its price, and it has three Bluetooth connections (in addition to the 2.4GHz dongle), which I happen to love and miss in the Logitech G515. He didn't like it because he types a lot, as all reviewers do, and optical switches take a lot of getting used for for that. In my experience, if the software lets you control repeat rate (which it does), that helps a lot with everyday use.Read our Vulcan 2 Mini Air review.
$108 at Best Buy
Close
RedMagic Astra Calling it the "best gaming tablet you can buy," the reviewer -- who plays a lot on the devices -- likes this 9-inch Android tablet for its travel-friendly design, 165Hz OLED screen, fast performance and plethora of gaming features. (Battery life, not so much.) It starts at $549, but since there's no way to add storage, if you're buying for someone who likes to keep a lot of games installed (Guilty!), you may need to opt for the higher-capacity $699 model.Read our RedMagic Astra review.
$449 at RedMagic
Close
Get CNET Cheapskate Subscribe to our daily spotlight on the best tech deals on the web - from phones to gadgets and more.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group! Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time. Message and data rates may apply. Recurring messages subscription. Available in USA and Canada.
More Gift Guides
28 Best Travel Tech Gifts in 2025: Must-Have Gadgets for the Traveler in Your Life
By
Jennifer Krazit
28 Best Gifts Under $200 to Buy in 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
By
Natalia Lusinski
24 of the Best Gifts Under $150 for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
24 Best Luxury Gifts That Are Worth the Splurge
By
Jennifer Krazit
The Best Places to Order Flowers Online
By
David Watsky
Our Favorite Back-to-School Picks for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
The Best Student Discounts, Deals and Freebies for 2025
By
Charlotte Maracina
40 Best Toys for Kids in 2025: Our Editors Found the Hottest Gift Ideas for All Ages
By
Aaron Pruner
My Favorite Smartwatch Isn't the Latest Model but It Does Everything I Need
By
Corinne Reichert
Best Back-to-School Tech Gear and Gadgets in 2025
By
David Carnoy
Best Amazon Prime Day Back-to-School Deals: Shop Laptops, Notebooks, Backpacks and More
By
Desiree DeNunzio
It's Prime Day. Here's How You Can Get a $250 Amazon Gift Card Right Now
By
Courtney Johnston
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Last-Minute Father's Day Gifts for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Gifts Available on Amazon for 2025: From $10 to $250
By
James Bricknell
32 Best Father's Day Gifts for 2025: Unique Gift Ideas for Every Dad
By
David Carnoy
Best Father's Day Gifts You Can Find on Amazon in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Personalized Gifts to Show Your Dad Love on Father's Day in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Best Father's Day Gift Ideas for DIY Dads in 2025
By
James Bricknell
20 Best Father's Day Gifts for New Dads and Soon-to-Be Dads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Tariffs Are Up in the Air, but I Don't Regret Upgrading to the PlayStation 5
By
Evan Zimmer
26 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts for Every Kind of Mom in 2025
By
David Watsky
Over 80 of the Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025: Lightsabers, Legos and Much, Much More
By
Russell Holly
Best Graduation Gifts for College Grads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.