Reviving the past and designing the future: Books in brief
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
book reviews
article
BOOK REVIEW
19 September 2025
Reviving the past and designing the future: Books in brief
Andrew Robinson reviews five of the best science picks.
By
Andrew Robinson0
Andrew Robinson
Andrew Robinson is a writer based in London and author of Earthshock (1993), The Story of Measurement (2007) and Einstein in Oxford (2024).
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
To Have or To Hold Sophie Pavelle Bloomsbury (2025)In the title of her engaging and eloquent book about symbiosis, science communicator Sophie Pavelle evokes traditional Christian marriage vows. But ‘and’ becomes ‘or’ — alluding to the fact that symbiotic relationships in nature can be “darker, far more shocking and much more scandalous than you could imagine”. They are often “parasitic relationships” in which members of one species decline and those of another survive by exploiting their bond. Pavelle describes eight symbiotic sets of organisms from the British Isles.Sex Is a SpectrumAgustín Fuentes Princeton Univ. Press (2025)An Atlantic fish, the bluehead wrasse (Thalassoma bifasciatum), kicks off this fascinating book about sex. Females produce eggs and males make sperm. But if the group’s largest male gets killed, a female takes over by rapidly altering its reproductive organs, thus becoming the main sperm producer. “On the face of it, sex is a paradox,” writes anthropologist Agustín Fuentes. “Wouldn’t life be easier if organisms just kept copying themselves to reproduce?” Among humans, he argues, women and men overlap more than is generally thought.Being VictorianJamie Camplin Unicorn (2025)The Victorian period (1837–1901) ended in colonial oppression. But “in a unique moment in world history, the arts, science and religious belief often came joyously together before falling deeply apart”, writes Jamie Camplin in his finely composed fusion of events, ideas and personalities of an era that still fascinates the world. It saw the coinage of the word scientist by William Whewell, a linguist, historian of science, mathematician, mineralogist, philosopher and theologian who resisted becoming too specialized in any one field.Dinner with King TutSam Kean Little, Brown (2025)
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03050-3
Subjects
Arts
Culture
Latest on:
Arts
The parable of the doors
Futures 17 SEP 25
Maintenance
Futures 12 SEP 25
The earth will not consume our bones
Futures 10 SEP 25
Culture
The parable of the doors
Futures 17 SEP 25
Maintenance
Futures 12 SEP 25
The earth will not consume our bones
Futures 10 SEP 25
Jobs
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
Subjects
Arts
Culture
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited