Take 42% off this Asus mechanical gaming keyboard with an OLED screen
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Take 42% off this Asus mechanical gaming keyboard with an OLED screen
Credit: ASUS
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 2 days ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Source: Asus
ASUS ROG Azoth Wireless Mechanical Keyboard
$158
$275
Save $117
Wireless
Yes
Backlight
RGB lighting
Media Controls
Physical Dial
Wired operation
USB-C
Dimensions
12.83 x 5.25 x 1.57 in (326 x 136 x 40mm)
The ROG Azoth is one of the best mechanical keyboards you can buy right now. It's a bit on the expensive side, but it gets all the essentials right in addition to some novelty features. The best part is that right now, you can score a steep discount, knocking 42% off retail.
$158 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
There are just way too many choices in 2025 when it comes to mechanical keyboards. While it used to be pretty niche, you can now expect full lineups from major brands, and even find cheap and affordable options from companies that are lesser known. So, as you can imagine, it makes it pretty hard for one product to stand out, unless you're adding some features that are less common. That's exactly the route that Asus took with its ROG Azoth mechanical keyboard, featuring an OLED screen and three-way control knob. This mechanical keyboard delivers on every level with its quality and comfort. And while it normally carries a high price at $275, it can now be had for far less thanks to a steep 42% discount that knocks it down to $158. It's a substantial discount that makes it worth taking a look at.
Everything you need and more
Credit: ASUS
This is 75% keyboard with a solid build. You get the usual features you'd want from a top-end mechanical keyboard, like hot swappable mechanical switches, impressive build quality, gasket mount with dampening foam, doubleshot PBT keycaps, and more.
But what puts this keyboard above some others is the OLED screen that can display vital information about your PC like thermals, settings for the keyboard, or it can become a small entertainment piece with custom animations. There's even a three-way control knob that makes it easy to navigate and select options from the screen. In addition, you get three ways to connect, using wired, Bluetooth, or a 2.4Ghz signal. The latter will be the best option if you're looking to go wireless but still maintain impressive performance.
There's three-way adjustment when it comes to the height, and compatibility with Windows and macOS. This keyboard delivers on all levels, and is an absolute joy to type on straight out of the box. While it can be an expensive investment, we think that it's worth the cost if you're someone that types a lot.
Keyboards & Mice
ASUS
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
3 days ago
My new note-taking system uses AI, a plain text editor, and a single folder
2 days ago
4 Zotero plugins that are my productivity secret weapon
3 days ago
4 reasons port isolation is the best switch security feature you're not using
3 days ago
6 reasons why most users should undervolt instead of overclock
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
27 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
4 problems with Borderlands 3 that Borderlands 4 fixes
I swapped Trello for Focalboard on my NAS, and it's so much better
I recommend people use these apps when moving from Windows to Linux
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.