Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference mini PC looks like a coaster — some designs are cooled by Frore AirJets | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Ultrabooks and Ultraportables
Microsoft's Surface Laptop and other Snapdragon notebooks see discounts for Prime Day — up to 36% off four Arm-based laptops with superb battery life
CPUs
Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 shows up in Geekbench with a score of 3,831
Mini PCs
‘World’s smallest Intel Core Ultra-powered Mini PC’ crown claimed by fanless Aaeon PICO-MTU4-SEMI
CPUs
AMD unleashes the power of mobile Fire Range chips on a desktop PC motherboard
Tablets
AMD's beastly Ryzen AI Max+ 395 chip to power 14-inch OLED gaming 2-in-1
CPUs
Intel's rumored 'Nova Lake-AX' allegedly packs insane specs but might never launch
CPUs
Qualcomm CEO says Intel ‘not an option’ for chip production — yet
Ultrabooks and Ultraportables
Tiny GPD MicroPC 2 smashes crowdfunding goal
PC Building
Shuttle intros semi-ruggedized barebone Intel Arrow Lake-S mini PC
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's first desktop PC chip lands this month — Asus leads with Ascend GX10 Grace Blackwell desktop platform
Mini PCs
Mini-PC production line video shows a combination of machine automation and human efforts to make PCs
CPUs
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon
Handheld Gaming
Modder builds gaming handheld powered by an RTX 4090 laptop GPU and Intel i9-14900HX
CPUs
Intel's Nova Lake mobile specs leaks out, top end HX variant to feature 28 CPU cores and 4 Xe cores
GPUs
Nvidia N1X SoC leaks with the same number of CUDA cores as an RTX 5070
Desktops
Mini PCs
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference mini PC looks like a coaster — some designs are cooled by Frore AirJets
News
By
Hassam Nasir
Contributions from
Matt Safford
published
25 September 2025
No sign these will be sold.
Comments (5)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Tom's Hardware)
At Qualcomm's Snapdragon Summit, the company unveiled its Snapdragon X2 Elite processors for PCs. They serve as the follow-up to last year's X Elite series, which served as a kickstart for Windows on Arm and made an attempt to rival Apple's M-series. Qualcomm's reference designs on display at the summit included laptops, tablets, and some fascinating mini PCs, including a circular puck and a small square that docks into a monitor.Pictured above is a reference design mini PC built around the Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme, an 18-core powerhouse capable of boosting up to 5 GHz (across two cores) with support for 228 GB/s of memory bandwidth. It's a tier above even the X2 Elite, which begs the question: how is it so thin? We know that some of Qualcomm's concepts were cooled by Frore AirJets, so it's possible solid state cooling played a role.The completely circular design is unlike anything we've seen before — it's like if someone took a trash-can Mac Pro and squashed it down to look like a coaster. It even appears like a modern Apple computer from the bottom, and has suitably similar I/O in the form of two USB-C ports, a headphone jack, and a barrel jack connection for power. The device also seems to be milled from aluminum, with a Snapdragon red finish.
You may like
Microsoft's Surface Laptop and other Snapdragon notebooks see discounts for Prime Day — up to 36% off four Arm-based laptops with superb battery life
Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 shows up in Geekbench with a score of 3,831
‘World’s smallest Intel Core Ultra-powered Mini PC’ crown claimed by fanless Aaeon PICO-MTU4-SEMI
(Image credit: Future)Qualcomm also showed a square unit compressed down to be almost as thin as a USB-C port. This one's a bit different because it's intentionally squared to fit in as part of a modular all-in-one system. The mini PC slides into a base, connected to a large monitor, which it subsequently powers.It feels like an upgrade to all-in-one computers that have existed for decades, but this one looks like you could swap out the computing parts.Speaking of which, the company did tell PC Mag that it's working with at least three OEMs in Taiwan. That means it's possible there might be some interest in adapting these reference designs down the line.
(Image credit: Frore Systems)As for the Frore AirJet cooling, it uses ultrasonic waves instead of fans to push/pull air. AirJet is the only way a system can be "actively" cooled without the need for conventional setups, so it makes perfect sense in this case. This isn't even the first time
AirJet has been used to cool a commercial mini PC, though. Frore unveiled its AirJet Mini G2 earlier this year, so perhaps that's what's inside these Qualcomm reference designs.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button.
TOPICS
Qualcomm
See all comments (5)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
With contributions fromMatt Safford
Read more
Microsoft's Surface Laptop and other Snapdragon notebooks see discounts for Prime Day — up to 36% off four Arm-based laptops with superb battery life
Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 shows up in Geekbench with a score of 3,831
‘World’s smallest Intel Core Ultra-powered Mini PC’ crown claimed by fanless Aaeon PICO-MTU4-SEMI
AMD unleashes the power of mobile Fire Range chips on a desktop PC motherboard
AMD's beastly Ryzen AI Max+ 395 chip to power 14-inch OLED gaming 2-in-1
Intel's rumored 'Nova Lake-AX' allegedly packs insane specs but might never launch
Latest in Mini PCs
This upcoming Thunderbolt 5 eGPU dock lets you mount an entire mini-PC on the side
‘World’s smallest Intel Core Ultra-powered Mini PC’ crown claimed by fanless Aaeon PICO-MTU4-SEMI
Mini-PC production line video shows a combination of machine automation and human efforts to make PCs
Mini PC 'violently' smashed with a sledgehammer, dragged behind a motorbike, and spun in a washing machine
Custom PC company stuffs a NUC inside a GPU
Would you buy this? $44 PC promises "powerful performance" and "striking visuals"
Latest in News
HighPoint's adapter enables GPUDirect storage — up to 64 GB/s from drive to GPU, bypassing the CPU
Elon Musk's Grok AI to be used by US government at a price of 42 cents per agency
ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
5 Comments
Comment from the forums
Notton
The Disc looks like a Frisbee now, but once you plug in a bunch of cables and dongles it's going to look like a freakish starfish.
With that said, more Frore please.
Reply
bit_user
I was hoping to see Thin mini-ITX, which seems to have some enduring popularity in Asia. I quite like the form factor, but active cooling can be a challenge.
Here's an example of a modern ARM SoC on a Thin mini-ITX board:
https://www.cnx-software.com/2024/12/18/radxa-orion-o6-mini-itx-motherboard-is-powered-by-cix-p1-12-core-armv9-soc-with-a-30-tops-ai-accelerator/
Although it has an ATX power connector, it can also be powered via one of the USB-C ports. So, you needn't use a case with an internal PSU or even a pico-PSU.
Reply
ekio
The 10cm square that you can plug to a screen is a great concept.
You could bring your own pc and swap when needed.
If they make the plugging design standard (like a series of usb-c with precise spacing), that could become a great PC for 90 percent of people.
Reply
CParsons
It's a PC, and a coaster for your beverages!
Reply
bit_user
ekio said:The 10cm square that you can plug to a screen is a great concept.
You could bring your own pc and swap when needed.You mean like a phone?
: D
I can plug my phone into a DisplayPort monitor. If you plugged a mouse and keyboard into the monitor, then you could get display, input, charging, and even LAN all over that one cable.
Reply
View All 5 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.