iPhone Air Review: Durability Concerns Put to Rest - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Phones
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
Review: My concerns about the durability of Apple's thinnest iPhone were put to rest when I got my hands on it. And despite a scaled-back camera and slimmer battery, there's a lot to love.
Article updated on September 17, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.6/ 10
SCORE iPhone Air
$999 at Apple
Pros
Slick, lightweight design
Surprisingly good battery life (sometimes)
Impressively durable
iOS 26 looks great
Cons
Single rear camera
Scaled-back speaker
Only charges up to 20 watts
High $999 price tag
Table of Contents
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
iPhone Air build and durability: Will it bend?
iPhone Air camera: I miss you 0.5x
iPhone Air battery life: Will it last all day?
iOS 26 features and Liquid Glass
Final thoughts: Is the iPhone Air right for you?
iPhone Air vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge vs. iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max
How we test phones
I fell in love with Apple's sleek, lightweight iPhone Air the moment I first held it. Now, after using the wildly thin device for a week, my worries about durability and battery life have mostly melted away -- though at times, I'm still reminded that love can be complicated.The $999 (£999, AU$1,799) iPhone Air, which replaces Apple's iPhone Plus models, is just 5.6mm thick and weighs only 165 grams, making it striking to hold -- and behold. The iPhone 17, for comparison, is 7.95mm thick and weighs 177 grams. And yes, they feel drastically different in my hand.The Air's 6.5-inch display sits right between the size of the baseline iPhone 17 and the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and the phone's smooth, curved edges help to give it a premium feel. The Air is a worthy competitor to Samsung's Galaxy S25 Edge, which is 5.8mm thick and weighs 163 grams (and which I've also reviewed). It also joins the ranks of other thin devices from Chinese companies like Huawei, Oppo and Honor.
Watch this: iPhone Air Review: A Joy to Hold, at a Cost
10:06
But slimming down also means scaling back in some regards. In my time so far with the iPhone Air, the battery took a noticeable hit on heavy-use days, though it held up surprisingly well under more moderate use and in CNET's battery tests (more on that below). The pared-back camera hardware was also something to contend with, since the iPhone Air has just one rear 48-megapixel wide-angle camera. I really missed having a separate ultrawide camera for landscapes, and I'm also bummed that the Air can't shoot Cinematic mode videos.And yet, despite those grievances, the iPhone Air truly does feel like a breath of fresh air. Its innovative design proves Apple can deliver more than just incremental upgrades across its iPhone lineup. iPhone Air build and durability: Will it bend?
The iPhone Air has a titanium frame to help with durability.  Celso Bulgatti/Zooey Liao/CNETThe iPhone Air has a titanium frame to keep it lightweight and durable (unlike the other models in the iPhone 17 series, which feature an aluminum body). Its Ceramic Shield 2 display is three times better at resisting scratches, according to Apple, while the Ceramic Shield on the back is four times more resistant to cracks. So far, I'm happy to report no scuffs or scratches on the front or back of my device, and I've boldly been going caseless for the purposes of "science." Despite the iPhone Air's thinness, it doesn't budge when I try to bend it in my hand, or when it's in my back pocket. During a demonstration at Apple Park following the company's fall keynote, I watched with suspense as a machine applied more than 130 pounds of force to the middle of the iPhone Air, and it still came out unscathed. So that should offer some assurance that it hopefully won't fold in your pocket.The iPhone Air has an IP68 rating for dust and water resistance, which I may or may not have tested when shooting the accompanying video for this review by dropping it in a fountain. Thankfully, it was unharmed (apart from some minor scuffs on the corners from scraping across the stone floor). If, like me, you're someone who typically chooses to protect your pricey tech investments with a case, Apple has a clear MagSafe one that's less than 1mm thick, so it doesn't take away from the Air's overall slimness. It has the added advantage of evening out the protruding camera bump, eliminating the slight wobble when you set the phone down on a flat surface without a case. There's one design element that's a bit of a letdown, especially if you spend as much time binging YouTube and TikTok videos on your phone as I do. The iPhone Air doesn't have a speaker on the bottom, only one at the top of the phone. That means the listening experience isn't as immersive, and music doesn't sound as good as it would on an iPhone with multiple speakers. It's not a deal-breaker, but for a nearly $1,000 phone, I'd expect a little more without having to resort to AirPods Pro 3 or other headphones for better audio.On the other hand, I'm thrilled Apple has finally brought 120Hz displays to its entire new lineup, instead of just the Pro models. That means I can enable the always-on display on the Air to quickly glance at the time and my notifications, and the display will dim and refresh at a very low rate to preserve power. Conversely, the screen can crank up to a higher rate when I'm scrolling through websites or playing games, creating smoother animations that look more natural. An anti-reflective coating and a 3,000-nit peak brightness make it easier to see the phone's screen outdoors, too. The iPhone Air comes in space black, cloud white, light gold and sky blue. I reviewed the sky blue version, which is my favorite of the hues. It's a very subtle blue that almost looks white, and it adds to the phone's sleek, futuristic appearance. You can choose from three storage options: 256GB, 512GB or 1TB. (I have the 1TB option.) It's a nice perk to not have to scale back on storage with a slimmer device.iPhone Air camera: I miss you 0.5x
The iPhone Air has a single, 48-megapixel wide-angle camera. Jesse Orrall/Zooey Liao/CNETThere's just one rear camera on the iPhone Air, a 48-megapixel wide-angle, which can also take solid 2x zoom photos that rival those shot on a telephoto lens (like its siblings, these crop-zoomed images are taken at a 12-megapixel resolution). Photos default to 24 megapixels, but you can quickly change the settings in the Camera app to snap images at that full 48 megapixels for more detail. It felt surprisingly limiting to not have an ultrawide camera, especially when I wanted to capture more sweeping landscapes. Not to turn this into a thin phone showdown, but I couldn't help but think of how the Galaxy S25 Edge does have a 12-megapixel ultrawide-angle camera, alongside a 200-megapixel wide-angle camera, which makes it feel like less of a compromise in that regard. Otherwise, the rear camera on the iPhone Air consistently delivered. In the many pictures I took of waterfalls, tea times and urban landscapes, shadows and highlights are well balanced, colors are true to life, and there's an overall sharpness and clarity. Portrait shots (my go-to camera mode) capably blur backgrounds to help subjects stand out, whether it's a decadent tea tray, an art installation or CNET's talented video producer Jesse Orrall.
No camera test is complete without a teatime photoshoot.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Portrait mode can help elevate the shot. The Air did a good job knowing how much to blur and keep in focus, which must have been tricky with so many layers of tea time goodies.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
Here's a 2x portrait mode photo of CNET's Senior Video Producer Jesse Orrall. The foreground is in crisp focus, and the blurred background gives this a more professional look. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
And here's a 2x portrait photo of Jesse using the new (aptly-named) Bright photographic style. I prefer the warmth of the standard style above, and how that one is more true-to-life. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
2x portrait images are among my favorite for their dramatic effect. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
This image was taken using night mode just after the sun disappeared, but the iPhone Air brightened it up so you can hardly tell it was dark out.  Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETThe absence of a separate telephoto camera didn't feel particularly restricting, since I'm used to the non-Pro iPhones not having one. (Not every phone can be the Pixel 10, I suppose.) And the 2x zoom photos on the Air were sharp and clean enough to satisfy me.
This was taken at 1x zoom. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNET
And here, I punched in to 2x zoom. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETThe iPhone Air also has a Camera Control button on the side to quickly snap photos and launch Visual Intelligence to learn more about what's around you via the camera. The button is admittedly a little tricky to feel because it's also so thin, but I'm glad it's there, since that's become my go-to way to open the camera on newer iPhones. (And if you'd rather turn it off, you can do that.) An 18-megapixel selfie camera on the Air utilizes a new feature for iPhones called Center Stage, which already exists on iPads and Macs. This will automatically (or manually, if you prefer) switch your shot from a portrait orientation to a landscape one as more people come into the frame, without you having to rotate your phone. People's eyes will also look more centered as a result, since they're not looking so far away from the lens. Center Stage also helps to stabilize people's faces on FaceTime and other video calls and keep them in frame.
Center Stage automatically turned this into a landscape photo when Patrick and Alexandra came into the frame. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETA Dual Capture mode lets you shoot with both the front and back cameras simultaneously. I plan to use this feature extensively at an upcoming Jonas Brothers concert to capture my jubilation along with what's happening onstage. Chaos will surely ensue.
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by CNET (@cnet)
As hard as it is to live without an ultrawide camera, perhaps the biggest camera-related blow for me is the iPhone Air's lack of support for Cinematic videos. I use Cinematic mode extensively for dramatic shots when I need a blurred background, so its absence is yet another reminder of the shortcomings of having just one rear camera. iPhone Air battery life: Will it last all day?
The iPhone Air (mostly) survived my unhinged screen time.  Jesse Orrall/ Zooey Liao/ CNETApple doesn't share specific battery specs for its phones, but it notes the iPhone Air has all-day battery life and up to 27 hours of video playback. According to Apple, the internal design maximizes space for the battery, and the A19 Pro Chip and power management with iOS 26 help give it a boost, too. Specifically, a feature called Adaptive Power mode helps extend battery life by automatically adjusting your iPhone's performance based on how you're using it at that moment. That could mean reducing the display's brightness, scaling back on CPU speeds, turning off some background activities, or activating low power mode. The catch is that Adaptive Power takes about a week to kick in and understand your usage, so I haven't had a chance to see it in action yet. But I'm very eager to see how it affects the iPhone Air's battery life.  My experience with the Air's battery so far has been varied, and, not surprisingly, depends on how heavy my phone usage is that day. On a Friday packed with my usual workday activities of sending endless emails and Slack messages, texting, using my mobile hotspot on the train, snapping photos and videos (in part for this review), streaming music, calling an Uber and unwinding on TikTok and YouTube, the battery went from 100% at 7:45 a.m. to dead by 7:26 p.m. That early experience made me fearful that the iPhone Air's battery just wasn't cut out for the job. But on a slower Saturday where I spent less time staring at a phone screen and more time cleaning my apartment, watching some TV and, well, writing this review, I did in fact get that all-day battery life that Apple promises. The Air started with a full battery at 9:20 a.m. and finished the day with 20% to spare by 12:01 a.m. -- despite me still spending a significant chunk of time scrolling through TikTok and Instagram, watching YouTube videos, ordering DoorDash, texting, streaming music and uploading photos and videos to Google Drive. I was unlocking and using my phone less frequently and using it in smaller bursts, and I was on Wi-Fi all day, but I wasn't holding back from my normal activities. Since then, the battery has been similarly more enduring, even as I go about my day.Apple seems to have anticipated trepidation surrounding the iPhone Air's slimmer battery, as it also introduced a $99 MagSafe battery designed specifically for the Air, which it says can extend video playback to up to 40 hours. In fact, Apple's website has two sets of listings for the iPhone Air's battery: one for the phone, and another with the MagSafe battery, as if it's truly a component of the device itself.The battery pack has a nice matte finish and doesn't protrude too far beyond the phone's rear camera bump, but attaching anything to a slim phone kind of defeats the purpose if you have to do it often enough. I'm hoping it'll remain more of a failsafe option when I need a little extra juice, as opposed to a necessity for carrying on with my day. In CNET's 45-minute endurance test, which includes streaming, scrolling through social media, joining a video call and playing games, the iPhone Air's battery went from full to 95%, which was pleasantly surprising. This aligns with results from other phones like the Oppo's Find N5, Google's Pixel 9A and Motorola's 2025 Razr Ultra. In comparison, the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge's battery went from full to 91% in the same test. In a 3-hour streaming test over Wi-Fi, in which I watched a YouTube video in full-screen mode at full brightness (and at 1080p), the iPhone Air's battery dropped from 100% to 85%. That beats the Galaxy S25 Edge, which hit 83% in the same test.The iPhone Air charges at up to 20 watts, which isn't just slow compared with other phones (like the 100-watt-charging OnePlus 13) but within the iPhone 17 lineup as well, as the other phones can charge up to 40 watts. In a 30-minute charging test, the iPhone Air reached 54%. It took about an hour and a half to hit 100%. It also supports Qi2 wireless charging up to 20 watts.iOS 26 features and Liquid Glass
iOS 26 adds more customization options for the lock screen. Jesse Orrall/CNETLike the rest of Apple's latest iPhone lineup, the iPhone Air comes out of the box with iOS 26 on board. This features Apple's new "Liquid Glass" interface that brings a more see-through, lens-like look to the iPhone and other Apple devices. It admittedly took a bit of adjustment to get used to the clearer design elements, but it's surprisingly satisfying to type in my passcode and watch the numbers bubble up and magnify that portion of the screen, and to see how translucent controls allow content to stretch across more of the display. You can also customize app icons to be clear, but that felt like a little too much clarity for me.You can jazz up your group iMessage chats with fun backgrounds or start a poll so you don't have to decipher where the winning location is for dinner, for instance. Perhaps my favorite new iMessage feature is being able to filter texts from unknown numbers and have them sent to a separate list aptly named "Unknown Senders." (So long, job recruitment scammers!)A couple of new features can help phone calls feel less daunting, especially if you're as averse to them as I am. Call Screening will automatically answer calls from unknown numbers and ask why they're trying to reach you. You'll see a transcription of that response so you can choose whether or not to accept the call. If you'd rather not deal with unknown numbers at all, you can also choose to have them silenced and sent to voicemail (a huge win for fellow introverts). And when you're waiting to talk to a live agent, Hold Assist can save your place in line -- so you don't have to listen to mind-numbing hold music -- and notify you when it's finally your turn to chat. These features are similar to ones that have been on Google's Pixel phones for years, but it's nice to see them finally arrive on the iPhone.Live Translation automatically translates what someone is saying across Phone and FaceTime calls, as well as Messages. Just note there is a slight lag when talking to someone on the phone as the automated voice translates what's being said. (Google has a similar feature on Pixel phones, though that version can actually mimic the sound of someone's voice using AI.)Visual intelligence can now understand what's on your screen and search for relevant information online. After taking a screenshot, tap the "Ask" button in the lower left corner to learn more about what you're looking at, with the help of ChatGPT. But another visual intelligence feature has proven to be more handy to me, largely because it mirrors Google's incredibly convenient Circle to Search capability. After taking a screenshot, trace around a product or object you want to learn more about, and then you'll see relevant search results from platforms like Google, Etsy and Poshmark. Final thoughts: Is the iPhone Air right for you?
The iPhone Air is great if you're looking for something light in your hand or pocket. Jesse Orrall/ Zooey Liao/ CNETAmid the current thin phone craze, there's a glaring question: What's the point of a skinnier device? And how much do you have to compromise to have a phone that's lighter in your hand and slimmer in your pocket?Understanding the appeal of a thin phone like the iPhone Air may require a bit of reframing. It's easy to think of it merely as a less capable iPhone, especially when compared with Apple's higher-end Pro models. But form factor is king here. The iPhone Air isn't about having top-level cameras; that's what the Pro models are for. It's also not about packing the largest battery. In an ideal world, it would be great to have the most advanced specs crammed into the slimmest device. But we're just not there yet. Phones like the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge and the iPhone Air scale back a bit when it comes to battery life and cameras (the former more so with the S25 Edge and the latter more so with the iPhone Air). But that may not be an issue for someone who isn't as heavy a user and doesn't spend as much time staring at a screen. The Air can also be an enticing choice for anyone who's bored with devices that all look the same. Like foldables, thin phones offer a fresh look and feel that's more exciting than the incremental upgrades we've grown accustomed to. (In fact, it's possible the iPhone Air serves as somewhat of a stepping stone as Apple reportedly prepares to debut a foldable iPhone next year.) But if you're OK with the same old same old and would rather save some cash, the $829 baseline iPhone 17 (or $799 if you activate with a carrier) could be a good alternative, since it shares many of the same features as the iPhone Air -- plus it comes with two rear cameras and stereo speakers.So, where do I stand with the iPhone Air after using it for a week? I'm still just as in love with that sleek profile as I was on day one, and it's now an adjustment to use any other non-slim phone. I've mostly made peace with the battery life, especially given how it performed in CNET's endurance and streaming tests. I look forward to seeing how the phone's life extends even more once Adaptive Power mode kicks in.Having only one rear lens has admittedly felt like a setback, even with how well that 48-megapixel camera captures images. Not having the flexibility of an ultrawide camera can feel limiting at times, especially from a phone that's nearly $1,000. The lack of a second speaker for a more balanced sound is also disappointing, given the sticker price. Ultimately, the iPhone Air is a first-generation device, which means there's certainly going to be room for improvement. But if you're willing to make some compromises, it can be a refreshing choice. iPhone Air vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge vs. iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 17 Pro Max undefined Apple iPhone AirSamsung Galaxy S25 EdgeApple iPhone 17Apple iPhone 17 ProApple iPhone 17 Pro Max Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.5-inch OLED; 2,736 x 1,260 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.7-inch QHD+  AMOLED display; 120Hz refresh rate 6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.9-inch OLED; 2,868 x 1,320 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh ratePixel density 460ppi513ppi460ppi460ppi460ppiDimensions (inches) 6.15 x 2.94 x 0.22 in2.98 x 6.23 x 0.23 inches5.89 x 2.81 x 0.31 in5.91 x 2.83 x 0.34 in6.43 x 3.07 x 0.34 inDimensions (millimeters) 156.2 x 74.7 x 5.64 mm75.6 X 158.2 X 5.8mm149.6 x 71.5 x 7.95 mm150.0 x 71.9 x 8.75 mm163.4 x 78.0 x 8.75 mmWeight (grams, ounces) 165 g (5.82 oz)163g (5.75 oz)177 g (6.24 oz)206 g (7.27 oz)233 g (8.22 oz)Mobile software iOS 26Android 15iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26Camera 48-megapixel (wide)200-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)Front-facing camera 18-megapixel12-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixelVideo capture 4K8K4K4K4KProcessor Apple A19 ProSnapdragon 8 EliteApple A19Apple A19 ProApple A19 ProRAM + storage RAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB12GB RAM + 256GB, 512GBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBExpandable storage NoneNoNoneNoneNoneBattery Up to 27 hours video playback; up to 22 hours video playback (streamed).
Up to 40 hours video playback, up to 35 hours video playback (streamed) with iPhone Air MagSafe Battery3,900 mAhUp to 30 hours video playback; up to 27 hours video playback (streamed)Up to 33 hours video playback; up to 30 hours video playback (streamed).Up to 39 hours video playback; up to 35 hours video playback (streamed).Fingerprint sensor None (Face ID)YesNone (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)Connector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneSpecial features Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Apple C1X cellular modem. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: space black, cloud white, light gold, sky blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 20W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.IP88 rating, 5G, One UI 7, 25-watt wired charging, 15-watt wireless charging, Galaxy AI, Gemini, Circle to Search, Wi-Fi 7.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, mist blue, sage, lavender. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.US price starts at $999 (256GB)$1,100$829 (256GB)$1,099 (256GB)$1,199 (256GB)
How we test phonesEvery phone CNET's reviews team tests is used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions, from bright sunlight to dark indoor scenes. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode, and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily, as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether that phone, whatever price it is, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
ABRAR AL-HEETI
Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.