Wi-Fi cutting out on your iPhone 17? You're not alone - but a fix is coming | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
Wi-Fi cutting out on your iPhone 17? You're not alone - but a fix is coming
The culprit could be Apple's new N1 wireless chip.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 24, 2025 at 9:44 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysiPhone 17 users are reporting that Wi-Fi sometimes cuts out.The issue seems to affect all four iPhone 17 models.A fix will hopefully arrive with iOS 26.1 or sooner.A new iPhone lineup invariably triggers complaints from buyers who run into one bug or another. That's almost a given with any new device as it ends up in the hands of millions of people. This time around, buyers of new iPhone 17 models are reporting an annoying glitch with Wi-Fi connectivity.Wi-Fi briefly cuts after unlockingSome new owners of the iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Pro, iPhone 17 Pro Max, and iPhone Air alike are saying that the Wi-Fi briefly cuts out and then reconnects after the phone is unlocked, as reported on Monday by MacRumors. The issue has also been affecting CarPlay connections in vehicles that use a Wi-Fi connection. Also: Slow or spotty Wi-Fi at home? Try my 10 go-to fixes to optimize your internet - fastSo far, affected iPhone 17 users have been chiming in on several different forums, including the Apple Support Community, MacRumors forums, and Reddit. Some people say the problem pops up when they're wearing an Apple Watch. Others have said that using a VPN may be causing the issue. These could be contributing factors, but not necessarily the source of the glitch.Also unknown is the scale of the problem. Though several people are reporting this bug, there aren't signs of it affecting a huge number of iPhone 17 owners, at least not yet. So far, the assumption is that it's impacting only the iPhone 17 lineup and not older iPhones, even ones that have updated to iOS 26. Is the new wireless chip to blame?One possible culprit, though, could be the new wireless chip in the latest iPhones. The entire iPhone 17 lineup uses Apple's N1 wireless chip, which controls the included Wi-Fi 7, Bluetooth 6, and Thread radio. This marks a switch from previous iPhone models that relied on third-party components for the wireless technology, Since the N1 is a first-generation chip, there could be unexpected performance or reliability issues that haven't surfaced until now.Also: Should you upgrade to Wi-Fi 7? Here's my verdict after testing this next-gen router at homeA fix might be comingThe good news is that a fix may be around the corner. One Redditor who installed the first developer beta of iOS 26.1 reported that the problem seems to have been resolved, or at least is no longer reproducible. "I updated only my iPhone to the 26.1 B1," the Redditor wrote. "It's only been 20 minutes, but under the same circumstances that my Wi-Fi and Bluetooth would turn off and on, it has not. This means that Apple, either intentionally or unintentionally, fixed the issue. This also means this is very likely a software issue that can be patched."Also: Why I'm recommending this iPhone 17 model to most people (and it's not the Pro Max)With the first developer beta of iOS 26.1 only now just out, Apple likely won't release it to all iPhone owners for at least another month or two. In the meantime, the company is also reportedly working on iOS 26.0.1, which is said to be imminent. Affected users should keep their fingers crossed that this first update will squash the Wi-Fi bug, otherwise you'll have to wait until later in the year for a resolution. Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use