Best Surge Protectors of 2025: I Tested 16 Surge Protectors to Find the Best - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Kitchen & Household
Best Surge Protectors of 2025: I Tested 16 Surge Protectors to Find the Best
A surge protector does more than provide more plugs. It also protects your most expensive devices from damaging power surges. Here are the best we've tested.
Our Experts
Written by
Geoffrey Morrison
Article updated on August 18, 2025 at 3:00 PM PDT
Geoffrey Morrison Contributor Geoffrey Morrison is a writer/photographer about tech and travel for CNET, The New York Times, and other web and print publications. He's also the Editor-at-Large for Wirecutter. He is the author of Budget Travel for Dummies as well as the bestselling sci-fi novels Undersea, and Undersea Atrophia. He's NIST and ISF trained, and has a degree in Audio Production from Ithaca College. He spends most of the year as a digital nomad, living and working while traveling around the world. You can follow his travels at BaldNomad.com and on his Instagram and YouTube channel.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Power surges can occur quickly and without warning, especially in the summer heat. They're often triggered by lightning strikes or electrical outages, and can cause serious damage to your electronics, as one CNET editor recently discovered. According to the Institute of Engineering and Technology, surge protectors are designed to help protect laptops, tablets, TVs and home appliances from power surge damage, though for even more protection and battery backup, you may want to consider an uninterruptible power supply or portable power station.
Our Picks
Best overall surge protector Tripp Lite TLP1208TELTV
Jump to details
$46 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best TV/home theater surge protector Belkin Conserve Switch F7C01008q
Jump to details
$46 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best small surge protector Belkin BP108000
Jump to details
$30 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget and on-wall surge protector Amazon S9P658O300A00
Jump to details
$13 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Surge Protectors of 2025: I Tested 16 Surge Protectors to Find the Best
What is the best surge protector overall?
Best 4 surge protectors of 2025
Best overall surge protector
Best TV/home theater surge protector
Best small surge protector
Best budget and on-wall surge protector
What we updated
Surge protectors, compared
How I tested surge protectors
Other good surge protectors
What's the difference between a surge protector and a power strip?
Factors to consider
With inflation and tariff-related price hikes hitting electronics hard, replacing your devices isn't as easy, so it's important to do what you can to keep them safe with a good surge protector. Unlike basic extension cords or power strips, surge protectors are specifically designed to absorb the excess energy from these dangerous voltage fluctuations before they reach your electronics. They're an essential piece of hardware that can prevent system crashes, extend your tech's life-span and even protect against electrical fires. We've rigorously tested 16 of the top surge protectors from brands like Belkin, Tripp, Anker and Amazon to find the best surge protection options.What is the best surge protector overall?The Tripp Lite TLP1208TELTV is our overall pick for the top surge protector. It comes equipped with a long power cord, four wide-set outlets and eight close-spaced ones, along with a $150,000 equipment protection policy and one of the highest joule ratings we've seen for under $100. For those seeking surge protection with specific features or smaller sizes, we have more recommendations below worth checking out.Best 4 surge protectors of 2025Filter by
all
Compact
5+ ports
USB
Showing 4 of 4 Results
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Best overall surge protector
Tripp Lite TLP1208TELTV
Pros
RJ11 outlet
Very high joule rating
Lifetime insurance coverage
Plenty of ports/outlets
Cons
No USB
Pricey
Why I like it: The Tripp Lite TLP1208TELTV offers most of the features we liked in our previous but now-discontinued favorite, the APC P11U2. It has only four wide-set outlets but eight close-spaced ones. There's no USB, but you get three RJ11 for telephone (one in, two out) and two coax for cable or satellite. It has a claimed 2,880 joule rating. I have one in my testing lab.It has an 8-foot cord and comes with $150,000 "Ultimate Lifetime Insurance" coverage and a limited lifetime warranty. Who it's for: It's usually a little more expensive, but it's ideal if you want something to protect landlines or cable/satellite.Who shouldn't buy it: No USB ports, so it's not a good option if you're looking to protect devices that charge via USB only.
... Show more
Get it now
$46 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Number of ports/outlets
12 total (8 wide-spaced)Joules
2,880Voltage
120 voltsCord length
8 ft.Warranty
Lifetime; $150,000 on connected equipment
Add to compare
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Best TV/home theater surge protector
Belkin Conserve Switch F7C01008q
Pros
Wireless switch
Comes with wall mount and sticky-tape
Compact size
Two 'always-on' outlets
Large warranty for connected devices
Cons
Lower joule rating
Shorter cord
Pricey
Why I like it: The Belkin F7C01008q has a handy feature: It comes with a wireless switch. Six of the eight wide-spaced outlets are controlled by this switch, which you can mount somewhere nearby via its included wall mount and sticky-tape. This allows you to stick the actual surge protector behind a large TV or console and you won't have to worry about reaching it to power on and off. The protector itself is flat, with far less bulk than the APC or Tripp Lite.Who it's for: This model is perfect for home theater setup with multiple power sources.Who shouldn't buy it: The more valuable the equipment, the more joules you'll need. This surge protector has a claimed 1,000-joule rating, which is lower than my top picks. For devices that store sensitive or valuable data, the Conserve Switch might not be the best option. However, it's important to note that the Conserve Switch has a $100,000 warranty for connected equipment. It has a shorter cord, too, though at 4 feet, it should be long enough for most situations.If you like the look of this design but don't need the switch, check out the Belkin BE112230, listed in the Others We Tested section below.   ... Show more
Get it now
$46 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Number of ports/outlets
8 total (6 wide-spaced)Joules
1,000Voltage
120 voltsCord length
4 ft.Warranty
1 year; $100,000 on connected equipment
Add to compare
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Best small surge protector
Belkin BP108000
Pros
Rotates 180 degrees
One in and out RJ11 outlet
Connected equipment warranty
Unique shape
Cons
Grounded wall warts might not fit correctly
Why I like it: It has a claimed 1,800-joule rating and comes with a $150,000 Connected Equipment Warranty. In addition to the power outlets, there are also in-and-out RJ11 telephone connections. The cable to the wall is 6 feet long.Who it's for: Unlike most other surge protectors, the Belkin BP108000 is tubular instead of box-shaped. Long and thin, it can sit behind or under furniture better than most other designs. Seven of its nine AC outlets rotate almost 180 degrees, so you can fit big wall wart chargers on all of them. Who shouldn't buy it: The other two outlets are widely spaced from each other, but are close to the bottom of the protector. This won't be an issue if you're plugging in cables, but grounded wall warts might not fit correctly.   ... Show more
Get it now
$30 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Number of ports/outlets
9 total (7 wide-spaced)Joules
1,800Voltage
125Cord length
6 ft.Warranty
$150,000 on connected equipment
Add to compare
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET
Best budget and on-wall surge protector
Amazon S9P658O300A00
Pros
Plugs directly into outlet
Outlets turn 90 degrees
Wall mount design
Cons
No warranty
Why I like it: The Amazon S9P658O300A00 plugs directly into your wall outlet, adding four more places for plugs. All six outlets on this Amazon Basics protector turn 90 degrees, so you can accommodate up to six wall warts if you turn the top and bottom plugs in the opposite direction of the middle ones. It's also super cheap compared to the other choices on this list. Who it's for: Use with small, inexpensive electronics like lamps, clocks or small appliances. Who shouldn't buy it: It doesn't have a connected equipment warranty and with a claimed joule rating of 1,080 joules, it's not the best choice for valuable or expensive equipment.
... Show more
Get it now
$13 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Number of ports/outlets
6 total (all wide-spaced)Joules
1,080Voltage
120 volts
Add to compareWhat we updated
April 2025We removed the APC P11U2 -- our former best pick -- since the product has been discontinued.May 2025We removed the Anker PowerPort Strip PD 2 Mini as the product is out of stock.August 2025Removed the Accell D080B-051B as the product is out of stock. Surge protectors, compared
ProductNumber of Ports/OutletsJoulesVoltageCord LengthWarrantyKey FeaturesPrice Tripp Lite TLP1208TELTV 12 total (8 wide-spaced)2,880120 volts8 ft.Lifetime; $150,000 on connected equipmentRJ11 outlet, high joule rating, lifetime insurance coverage$46Belkin Conserve Switch F7C01008q 8 total (6 wide-spaced)1,000120 volts4 ft.1 year; $100,000 on connected equipmentWireless switch, wall mount, compact size$46Accell D080B-051B (Out of Stock) 5 total (cord style)1,080120 volts3 ft.NoneFail safe, compact$40Belkin BP108000 9 total (7 wide-spaced)1,8001256 ft.$150,000 on connected equipment180-degree rotating outlets, RJ11 outlet, unique shape$3Amazon S9P658O300A00 6 total (all wide-spaced)1,080120 voltsN/ANonePlugs directly into outlet, outlets turn 90 degrees, wall mount$13
How I tested surge protectors
Chris Monroe/CNETWhen I tested these surge protectors there were three things I looked for: 1. Well-spaced sockets: One of the most important things was having enough outlets to fit the wall wart power adapters that come with most products. These bulky connectors usually take up two or more spaces on normal outlets and power strips. I physically checked each power strip to see if its outlets were sufficiently spaced to fit multiple warts.2. A high joule rating (preferably 1,000 or more): Joule ratings indicate how much energy a surge protector can absorb before failing. It's essentially a measure of how much protection each surge protector will offer you. A rating was required, and all my picks had ratings comparable to or higher than their competitors. It'd be great to have a minimum or recommended rating, but such a thing doesn't exist for these kinds of products. 3. Whether it came with a "connected device" warranty: I also gave preference to products that come with a guarantee in case your gear is destroyed by a power surge. Nearly all of my picks have this kind of warranty, often in the range of hundreds of thousands of dollars. Are you likely to get your money back if your gear gets zapped? Hard to say. Insurance like this is hard to collect on, as some companies will only replace connected gear "at their option." Having this sort of guarantee does give you some peace of mind, however; more than you have without it, and perhaps it will cover you in a way your homeowners or renters insurance doesn't. With all of this in mind, I compiled a list of nearly 50 surge protectors and then chose the top 16 to test. My last bit of testing was hands-on. Specs can tell you a lot, but very quickly I found some of these to be better than others. Some had features that seemed useful but weren't. Others were larger or smaller than they seemed in pictures, which in some cases was a good thing or in the case of the travel surge protectors, not so much. Our top picks were the ones that had the best combination of features, specs and felt the most practical in normal use.Read more: 10 Shocking Facts About Power Strips
A Closer Look at the Best Surge Protectors
+6 More
See all photos
Other good surge protectors
Accell D080B-051B (Out of stock): It looks like a squid or maybe a six-legged octopus. (Hexapus?) I feel like this is enough reason to buy it, but it may not be for everyone. Its main benefit is that, instead of rigid outlets on a flat frame like most surge protectors, it has five short cables with the outlets at the end. The Accell is rated at a claimed 1,080 joules. Most surge protectors will continue to pass power when they've passed their joule rating, but the D080B-051B has a fail safe, cutting power so your gear is protected against further surges. You will need to buy a new one if this should happen, but the whole point is to protect your more expensive gear. It's surprising that more surge protectors aren't built like this. Most people probably won't need this specific type of functionality, but I'm sure some of you are looking at it and know exactly how it will fit in your home. Unlike the others on my list, there's no connected device warranty -- meaning the company doesn't have a program to replace your fried devices should it occur. Although with Accell's unique fail-safe, you might not need it.The Belkin SRA007p12tt6 is a classy-looking 12-outlet surge protector with a matte-white finish that would work better on a desk or otherwise visible spot than most of the other large protectors. Six of its outlets are widely spaced, and there are two 2.4-amp USB-A and one 3-amp USB-C outlet (4.5 amps combined max output). The wall plug is conveniently angled at 90 degrees at the end of the 6-foot cable.The APC P6WU2 (Update: Currently Unavailable) is a chunky wall-mount design with six side-mounted outlets and two USB ports on the front. Depending on what you're plugging into it, they might bunch up or not fit against the wall. The Amazon S9P658O300A00 can fit more plugs for a somewhat similar footprint. However, the APC has a connected device warranty ($50,000), while the Amazon doesn't. For something similar but smaller, check out the Belkin BSV300ttCW mentioned below.The Belkin BE112230 shares the flat design of the switched Belkin F7C01008q, just without the switch. It has six wide-spaced outlets, a claimed 3,940 joules of protection and a connected equipment warranty.The Belkin BST300bg is a decent travel alternative to the Accell. It has three outlets on the front and two USB ports on the top. The plug swivels so you can orient it in multiple ways. The Accell is a little smaller, but this is a good runner-up.The wall-mounted Belkin BSV300ttCW has three outlets and two USB ports, all on the front. Its most interesting design feature is a lipped top surface where you can lean your phone while it's charging.The cube-shaped Belkin SRA006p3tt5 is similar to the currently unavailable Anker in that it's a small protector at the end of a long cord. The Anker's smaller size and dedicated USB-C connection are more convenient, but if you're connecting larger wall warts, they'll likely fit better on this. What's the difference between a surge protector and a power strip?
A surge protector controls and diverts excess power to keep your electronics safe, while a power strip simply offers more outlets to plug stuff in. Raimund Koch/Getty ImagesA power strip and surge protector may look similar, but the power strip will not offer surge protection for appliances and devices plugged into it. Plug-in surge protectors work by absorbing and diverting a surge. The excess voltage is sent to the outlet's ground wire -- the third prong in modern electrical sockets -- and prevented from reaching any devices that are plugged into that socket.  A power strip will simply give you more outlets to plug in electronics.The easiest way to tell the difference between a basic strip and a surge protector is by checking if it has a joule rating. All surge protectors will have one, and it's essentially how much of a power surge it can protect against. Factors to consider
Get more outlets than you think you need. Generally, the next size up from what you’re considering will give you room to grow if you need to add new gear or devices down the road.Two might be better than one. If you’re connecting enough devices to fill a surge protector, it’s worth considering getting two smaller ones (say, two eights instead of one 12). Spreading out the electrical load could be safer. Even more practical, it also might allow you to connect to two different outlets. This is especially important if you’re connecting a lot of high-power devices. Of course, this isn’t always possible, but it’s worth considering. Make sure it's within reach. An easily reachable power switch, or even a wireless remote, can seem like a simple thing but one that can improve usability significantly. A surge protector isn't always enough. If your location is prone to lightning strikes, you’ll want more protection than just a surge protector. Using a surge protector to protect against lightning is like using a baby gate to stop an elephant.
Surge protector FAQs
Do I need a surge protector when traveling?
Need? No, but it doesn't hurt to protect your gear. More important when traveling is having enough outlets to connect all your electronics. You'd be surprised at how few accessible outlets many hotels have.
Is it bad to plug too many things into a surge protector?
Yes, though depending on what you're trying to connect, it might not matter. The outlets in most American homes are either 15 or 20 amps. This equals approximately 1,800 to 2,400 watts. Can you connect your TV, soundbar and game consoles to one surge protector? Generally, yes. Can you connect your fridge, air conditioner, electric stove and clothes dryer to one? No. Check the wattage rating on your gear. You're better off using more surge protectors, plugged into their own separate outlets.
Can a surge protector protect against lightning?
No. If lightning strikes your house, a surge protector will unlikely do anything to save your gear. There would just be too much power to handle. Some surge protectors have warranties that might cover some of the cost of your gear in the case of a lightning strike, but not all. It's best to read the fine print. Lighting protection has to involve redirection, for example with a lightning rod, which is beyond the scope of this guide.
Is an expensive surge protector worth it?
To an extent, yes. Generally, more expensive surge protectors have higher joule ratings (more protection) and better equipment protection policies if something happens. Surge protectors with higher prices might include options like uninterruptible power supplies (UPS), which are essentially surge protectors with built-in batteries, and whole-home surge protection.
What’s the difference between a power strip and a surge protector?
The difference between a power strip and a surge protector is that a power strip is just additional outlets, while a surge protector has additional circuitry to help protect your TV, soundbar or anything that's plugged in. While the terms are used interchangeably, there's a big difference.
Can I plug a surge protector into an extension cord?
It's generally not recommended to plug a surge protector into an extension cord. Ideally, a surge protector should be plugged directly into a wall outlet to prevent voltage drops, overloading and for overall better protection.
About the Author
Geoffrey Morrison Contributor Geoffrey Morrison Contributor
Geoffrey Morrison is a writer/photographer about tech and travel for CNET, <em>The New York Times</em>, and other web and print publications. He's also the Editor-at-Large for Wirecutter. He is the author of <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Budget-Travel-Dummies/dp/139421295X"><em>Budget Travel for Dummies</em></a> as well as the bestselling sci-fi novels <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Undersea-Geoffrey-Morrison-ebook/dp/B0062PXGW6"><em>Undersea</em></a>, and <a href="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01GJEO0CY"><em>Undersea Atrophia</em></a>. He's NIST and ISF trained, and has a degree in Audio Production from Ithaca College. He spends most of the year as a digital nomad, living and working while traveling around the world. You can follow his travels at <a href="http://baldnomad.com/">BaldNomad.com</a> and on his <a href="https://www.instagram.com/inveterate_adventurer">Instagram</a> and <a href="https://www.youtube.com/@GeoffMorrison">YouTube channel</a>.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.