6 Raspberry Pi projects for students that actually make sense
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
1
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
6 Raspberry Pi projects for students that actually make sense
Credit: XDA
By
Ayush Pande
Published Sep 9, 2025
Ayush Pande is a PC hardware and gaming writer. When he's not working on a new article, you can find him with his head stuck inside a PC or tinkering with a server operating system. Besides computing, his interests include spending hours in long RPGs, yelling at his friends in co-op games, and practicing guitar.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
1
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
The ancestor of modern Raspberry Pi boards was designed as an inexpensive tool to attract students to the joys of programming. Today, the Raspberry Pi series is extremely popular in the tinkering community, powering thousands of unique DIY projects. While some of the newer mainline RPi Single-Board Computers aren’t what you’d call affordable, they can offer an essential learning experience for students. And I don’t mean circuitry projects and demos that you’d probably dismantle soon after building them. Having shed my student status fairly recently, here are high-utility projects that not only helped me train my tinkering skills, but also aided my scholastic life in some shape or form.
6
Web server
For aspiring web developers
Designing your own website can be a massive flex when you’re into coding – especially if you manage to make it aesthetically pleasing. But if you’re looking to challenge your programming skills, you could try configuring a local web server capable of displaying your web pages. Since the mainline Raspberry Pi boards are powerful enough to run dedicated web servers, they’re a fantastic option for getting some hands-on experience with hosting websites. If you’re on the Python side like I am, you can spin up a Flask-based web server to display your HTML web pages, style them with CSS, and augment their interactive elements with JavaScript. Alternatively, you could go for a LAMP bundle, which uses an Apache web server alongside a MariaDB database and PHP to help you deploy your very own website.
5
Nextcloud-hosting workstation
Personally, I call it the Office 365 alternative
Thanks to its real-time collaboration support and intuitive UI, Nextcloud is one of the best personal cloud platforms out there – and it’s what helped me and my coding team work together on our projects during my uni days. However, Nextcloud becomes quite the behemoth once you add the tools from its app store into the equation. Collabora Online and Nextcloud Office let you edit spreadsheets, text documents, and presentation slides directly on your Nextcloud setup, turning it into a free and private alternative to Office 365. Better yet, Nextcloud doesn’t require a lot of processing horsepower, so you can host the platform alongside its arsenal of apps on a Raspberry Pi.
4
Budget-friendly NAS
A NASberry Pi, if you will
While we’re on the subject of private clouds, nothing’s better at storing personal data than a Network-Attached Storage server. If you’re not willing to spend hundreds of dollars on a shiny new NAS unit, you can use a spare Raspberry Pi as a backup, file-sharing, and general-purpose storage server. Sure, TrueNAS and Unraid may not be supported by Arm devices, but the king of lightweight NAS distros, OpenMediaVault, meshes incredibly well with the Raspberry Pi. Besides the limited connectivity options, the only caveat is that, depending on your specific requirements, you may have to shell out extra money on HATs and new power supplies. But if you’re a student looking for a cheap, starter NAS, building one with a Raspberry Pi is an option worth considering.
3
All-in-one networking hub
Or even a firewall, if you’re daring enough
Whether you’re into networking systems or are just paranoid about your security (or even both), a Raspberry Pi can serve as a great addition to your tinkering setup. That’s because you can arm your Raspberry Pi with a couple of neat network-related tools. There’s Pi-hole, which is already popular in the self-hosting community for its ad-blocking features, but you can also use it to create local DNS records. In case you’re wondering where those would come in handy, you can host a reverse proxy server like Nginx or Caddy to assign local domain names to any containerized app or service. If you’re on the security side of things, you can arm your Raspberry Pi with Kali Linux and go ham on pen-testing and ethical hacking projects. Or, you could go the other way and turn the Raspberry Pi into a full-fledged firewall with OpenWRT using nothing more than a microSD card and a USB-to-Ethernet adapter.
2
Kubernetes node
Bonus points if you build an entire cluster from RPis
I got into Kubernetes for the sole purpose of improving my containerization and network management while studying DevOps and sysadmin workflows, and my SBC collection is what helped me get some hands-on experience with the container orchestration platform. Despite their unassuming appearance, Raspberry Pi boards are surprisingly good at running Kubernetes, and with the right number of nodes, you can put together a reliable K8s cluster. And it’s not just good for studying about load balancing or container networks either. If you’re as deep into the self-hosting ecosystem as I am, a high-availability cluster can keep your essential services running even if a node goes down.
1
Lightweight Linux-based coding machine
That can even program microcontrollers
Between a plethora of guides and a never-ending number of coding-oriented packages included in the Raspberry Pi OS, RPi SBCs are equipped with everything you need to get into the nitty-gritty of programming. The all-powerful VS Code is not only easy to set up on the SBC family, but it also works really well even on the weaker boards – and you can opt for Code-Server if you want to turn the board into a remote programming workstation. Alternatively, if you’ve got an army of microcontrollers, you can even connect them to your Raspberry Pi and use the SBC to program them. Not to mention, the Raspberry Pi is compatible with I2C, SPI, serial, and UART protocols, so you can interface a variety of sensors with the SBC family and use them in your coding projects.
Spice up your learning with a Raspberry Pi
If you’re still looking for cool Raspberry Pi projects, I’ve got some more suggestions. Home Assistant is great for folks looking to dip their toes into IoT automation, though it can take a while to assemble an army of smart home devices when you’re a student (I didn’t built my smart home arsenal until my senior year of college). On the flip side, n8n is worth running on your Raspberry Pi if you want to get into software automation.
Single-Board Computers
Raspberry Pi
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Keith
Keith
Keith
#XN434849
Member since 2024-12-07
0
Threads
29
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
TrueNAS now runs on ARM. Jeff Geerling has a clip on YouTube discussing it.
2025-09-10 11:25:44
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
This underdog brand's NAS is now blowing up on Amazon thanks to a new low price
Sep 10, 2025
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
Sep 9, 2025
3 surprising things you can repurpose laptop batteries for
Sep 9, 2025
NotebookLM’s huge update comes with a surprising downgrade
More from our brands
5 practical Raspberry Pi projects that improve my life in subtle ways
7 Projects For Your New 16GB Raspberry Pi 5
How I turned my Raspberry Pi into a Zigbee hub and made my smart home better
Every Raspberry Pi model ranked from worst to best
8 reasons why a Raspberry Pi is perfect for tinkerers
What is a Home lab, and why tech enthusiasts should build one
Don't want to buy a NAS? Here are your alternatives
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
23 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This self-hosted collaborative markdown editor is our family’s new wiki
4 reasons you need to start using WinGet on Windows
I replaced my browser's home page with this self hosted dashboard, and it's the best productivity tweak I've ever made
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.