Best Home Equity Loan Lenders - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET Money
The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners. Review CNET's ethics statement.
Money Home Equity
Best Home Equity Loan Lenders for 2025
Our list of the top home equity loan lenders can help you find the best interest rate and terms on your future loan.
Our Experts
Written by
Katherine Watt
Article updated on May 27, 2025 at 9:20 AM PDT
Katherine Watt Former Staff Writer Katherine Watt is a former CNET Money writer focusing on mortgages, home equity and banking. She previously wrote about personal finance for NextAdvisor. Based in New York, Katherine graduated summa cum laude from Colgate University with a bachelor's degree in English literature.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Table of Contents
Best Home Equity Loan Lenders for 2025
Best home equity loan lenders for 2025
Good for nationwide availability
Good price transparency
Flexible credit union eligibility
Good option for wide range of product offerings
Good online application experience
Good for long repayment period
Good option for Texas borrowers
Good for autopay discounts
Good introductory APR
How to find the best home equity loan lenders
What is a home equity loan?
How to get a home equity loan
Alternatives to home equity loans
FAQs
Methodology
A home equity loan lets homeowners borrow a lump sum against their property’s value to pay for things like home improvements, debt consolidation or other large expenses. Unlike home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans typically have fixed interest rates. That means your monthly payment will be the same over the term of your loan. Before committing to a home equity loan, create a repayment plan. When you take out a home equity loan or HELOC, your home serves as collateral, which means if you’re unable to repay the debt, you risk losing your house. Home equity loans are available from a variety of lenders, including banks, credit unions and home equity loan companies. Just like when you took out your mortgage, it’s important to compare loan offers from at least two or three different lenders before making a decision. Experts agree that comparison shopping is one of the best ways to get a lower interest rate. I spoke with experts and researched dozens of different lenders to create CNET’s list of the best home equity loan lenders.Best home equity loan lenders for 2025LenderAPRLoan amountLoan termsMax LTV ratioU.S. BankFrom 7.65%Not specifiedUp to 30 yearsNot specifiedTD Bank7.99% (0.25% autopay discount included)From $10,0005 to 30 yearsNot specifiedConnexus Credit UnionFrom 7.31%From $5,0005 to 15 years90%KeyBankFrom 9.59% (0.25% autopay discount included)From $25,0001 to 30 years80% for standard home equity loans, 90% for high-value home equity loansSpring EQFill out application for personalized ratesUp to $500,000Not specified90%Third Federal Savings & LoanFrom 6.99%$10,000 to $200,000Up to 30 years80%Frost BankFrom 7.32% (0.25% autopay discount included)$2,000 to $500,00015 to 20 years90%Regions BankFrom 6.75% to 14.125%$10,000 to $250,0007, 10, 15, 20 or 30 years89%BMO HarrisFrom 8.97% (0.5% autopay discount not included)From $25,0005 to 20 yearsNot specifiedNote: The above APRs are current as of May 6, 2025. Your APR will depend on factors such as your credit score, income, loan term and whether you enroll in autopay or other lender-specific requirements.
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good for nationwide availability
U.S. Bank
U.S. Bank offers both home equity loans and HELOCs in 47 states (not including Texas, South Carolina and Delaware). You can borrow as little as $15,000 or up to $750,000 ($1 million for properties in California) depending on the available equity in your home. The bank offers a range of payback terms up to 30 years. We like U.S. Bank because of its extensive nationwide availability, many customer support options and price transparency — meaning you can get a personalized rate quote and fee information by filling out some basic information, no credit check required. Read CNET’s review of U.S. Bank.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good price transparency
TD Bank
TD Bank offers home equity loans and HELOCs in 15 states. Loan amounts for home equity loans start at $10,000. TD Bank offers payback terms ranging from five to 30 years. Although its nationwide availability is limited, TD Bank ranks high for its price transparency and wide variety of product offerings, including interest-only and rate-lock options on its HELOCs. The bank’s good online user experience, price transparency and customer service options stand out to us.  Read CNET’s review of TD Bank.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Flexible credit union eligibility
Connexus Credit Union
Connexus Credit Union offers home equity loans and HELOCs in 46 states (excluding Alaska, Hawaii, Maryland and Texas). Loan amounts range from $5,000 to $200,000. Because Connexus is a credit union, its products and services are only available to its members. You can see the full membership eligibility requirements here. Connexus offers expansive nationwide availability and a few different product options, part of the reason this lender ranked highly for us. Its straightforward application process and relatively easy membership requirements is another bonus.  Read CNET’s review of Connexus Credit Union.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good option for wide range of product offerings
KeyBank
KeyBank offers home equity loans to customers in 15 states and HELOCs to customers in 44 states. Aside from a standard HELOC, KeyBank also offers interest-only and rate-lock options. KeyBank’s extensive product offerings stand out to us. The lender’s streamlined application process for existing users is also useful. Both existing and new users will appreciate the online user experience and availability of customer service options from KeyBank. Read CNET’s review of KeyBank.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good online application experience
Spring EQ
Spring EQ serves customers in 38 states, offering home equity loans and HELOCs with amounts ranging from $5,000 to $500,000. You can borrow up to 90% of your home’s value, but you must have a minimum credit score of 640 and a debt-to-income, or DTI, ratio of 50% or less. It doesn’t display rates online, but we rank Spring EQ highly because you don’t need to undergo a hard credit check to see personalized rates. You can get prequalified for a loan with only basic information. Read CNET’s review of Spring EQ.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good for long repayment period
Third Federal
Third Federal Savings & Loan first opened in 1938. Today, the bank offers home equity loans in eight states and HELOCs in 26 states. Third Federal also offers a unique product not commonly found among other lenders: a 5/1 adjustable-rate home equity loan. Despite its limited nationwide availability for home equity loans, we like Third Federal for its rate match guarantee and its unique product offerings. Read CNET’s review of Third Federal.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good option for Texas borrowers
Frost Bank
Frost Bank, headquartered in San Antonio, Texas, offers products only to Texas residents. It offers home equity loans, HELOCs and interest-only HELOCs. Home equity loans are available with loan amounts of $2,000 and up, while HELOCs are available with line amounts of $8,000 and up. Although Frost Bank’s nationwide availability is very limited, the bank has a helpful product selection tool, easy application process and good price transparency, making it a strong option for Texas borrowers. Read CNET’s review of Frost Bank.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good for autopay discounts
Regions Bank
Regions Bank serves people across the South, Midwest and Texas, offering home equity loans and HELOCs in 15 states. Home equity loans have amounts of $10,000 to $250,000 and repayment periods of either seven, 10, 15 or 20 years. For home equity loans with Regions, there are no closing costs. Regions ranks highly because of its low fees, variety of application options and wide range of customer service options. However, Regions’ nationwide availability is fairly limited. Read CNET’s review of Regions Bank.  ... Show more
Photo Gallery 1/1
Good introductory APR
BMO Harris
BMO Harris products and services are available in 48 states (all but New York and Texas). BMO Harris offers home equity loans and three variations of a HELOC. Loan amounts for home equity loans start at $5,000 and repayment periods range from five to 20 years. You can borrow up to 89.99% of your home with most BMO Harris home equity loans. A 100% maximum CLTV — the ratio of all secured loans on a home to the value of home — option is available for low-to-moderate income borrowers or Low to Moderate Income Census Tract customers who need to make home improvements. We like that BMO Harris offers both home equity loans and three types of HELOCs almost nationwide. We found its online application less straightforward than its competitors.Read CNET’s review of BMO Harris.   ... Show more
How to find the best home equity loan lenders
You don’t need to get your home equity loan from the same mortgage lender you already have, although it may make sense to do so. Shopping for a different lender and comparing offers might help you secure a lower interest rate. Be sure to ask questions upfront to understand what rates and fees are associated with your home equity loan.Remember, the rate a lender advertises isn’t always the rate you qualify for. Your exact interest rate will depend on multiple factors, including your DTI ratio, LTV ratio and loan amount. The lowest rates are generally reserved for borrowers with a good credit score and clean credit history. Also, make sure to look at the lender’s APR, not just the interest rate. The APR includes fees, so it will be a more accurate figure of what you’ll pay. A good lender will make you feel comfortable with the borrowing process and make sure you understand what upfront or ongoing fees apply to the loan. When comparing lenders, also consider how convenient the application process is, if there are any local branches available to you, the lender’s customer support options and any available rate discounts. What is a home equity loan?
A home equity loan offers you a one-time cash installment, which you’ll pay back over a set period. A home equity loan is similar to taking out a personal loan, except this loan is secured by the value of your home ( specifically, the difference between what your home is worth and what you owe on your mortgage). If you default on payments for any reason, the lender could take your home as payment. The amount you can borrow with a home equity loan is determined by the amount of equity you have. Most lenders cap the amount you borrow to more than 85% of your home’s equity, but that number will vary from lender to lender. Money from a home equity loan can be used for anything, ranging from home renovation projects to consolidating variable-rate debt. A home equity loan is best for borrowers with fixed costs and a defined goal for your money.Unlike a HELOC, a home equity loan typically has a fixed interest rate, so your monthly payment will be the same over the term of your loan. How to get a home equity loan
Applying for a home equity loan is similar to applying for a mortgage. You'll first want to interview multiple lenders to determine which lender can offer the lowest rates and fees. The more companies you speak with, the better your chances of finding favorable terms.You'll also need equity in your home. Almost all lenders require you to have at least 15% to 20% equity in your home before being considered for a home equity loan. Lenders will then take into account your credit score, income and current debt-to-income ratio to determine your interest rate. Be prepared with financial documents, such as pay stubs, W-2s, proof of ownership and the appraised value of your home. Once you submit your application, the final step is closing on your loan.Requirements for a home equity loan Although it varies by lender, to qualify for a home equity loan you’re typically required to meet the following criteria:Have at least 15% to 20% equity in your home: To know your home equity, i.e., the amount of home you own, subtract what you owe on your mortgage and other loans from the current appraised value of your house.Adequate, verifiable income and stable employment: Proof of income is a standard requirement to qualify for a home equity loan. Check your lender’s website to see what forms and paperwork you need to submit. A minimum credit score of 620: Lenders use your credit score to determine the likelihood that you’ll repay the loan on time. Having a stronger credit score will help you qualify for a lower interest rate and more amenable loan terms. A debt-to-income ratio of 43% or less: Divide your total monthly debts by your gross monthly income to get your DTI. Like your credit score, your DTI helps lenders determine your capacity to make consistent payments toward your loan. Some lenders prefer a DTI of 36% or less. Alternatives to home equity loans
If a home equity loan isn’t the right move for you, there are other financing options.HELOCA HELOC offers you a revolving line of credit against the equity you’ve built in your home. You can take out money as needed, up to your total line of credit, during your draw period (usually 10 years). Similar to a credit card, there’s a limit on how much you can borrow at once. After your draw period ends, you’ll enter your repayment period and make payments toward both the interest and principal (how much money you’ve borrowed) on your loan.The interest rates for a HELOC are usually variable, so rates will generally rise and fall along the prime rate.A HELOC is a good choice if you’re unsure of how much money you need or if you want access to an ongoing source of cash over a period of months or years.Personal loanWhen you take out a personal loan, you receive a one-time cash infusion that you pay back over the life of the loan. Personal loans tend to have higher interest rates than home equity loans, but they’re less risky because you don’t put your home up as collateral. Cash-out refinanceUnlike a home equity loan or HELOC, a cash-out refinance replaces your existing mortgage with a new home loan. Ideally, the new mortgage has a lower interest rate and more favorable terms. A cash-out refinance provides you with an upfront sum of cash that’s then added back onto the balance of your new mortgage.The bottom line A home equity loan allows you to leverage your home’s equity without disturbing your primary mortgage rate. Make sure to shop around and compare lenders to find the best rate and most amenable loan terms for your needs. In addition to interest rates, consider a lender’s APR, rate discounts, application process and any costs or fees associated with the loan. FAQs
Is it a good idea to borrow from your home’s equity?
Borrowing from your home’s equity, whether through a home equity loan, HELOC or cash-out refinance, can be a good way to access large amounts of cash at relatively low interest rates compared with credit cards and personal loans. It’s not without risks. Because your house acts as collateral for the loan, you could lose your home if you fall behind on payments. That’s why it’s important to only borrow what you can afford to pay off. Avoid borrowing against the equity of your home for nonessential expenses such as a vacation, wedding or luxury purchase.How much can you borrow with a home equity loan?
Exact requirements vary by lender, but most home equity loan lenders limit your loan-to-value ratio to 85% or under. This means that the total value of the home equity loan you’re seeking, plus the outstanding loan balance on your primary mortgage, can’t exceed 85% of your home’s appraised value. For example, if you have a house worth $300,000 and a $100,000 mortgage balance, the maximum amount you can borrow with a home equity loan would be $155,000 (assuming a maximum LTV of 85%).How much can you borrow with a home equity loan?
When deciding whether to grant you a home equity loan, lenders look at multiple factors: your credit score and credit report, your debt-to-income ratio, your monthly income and how much equity you have in your home, among other things. Each lender also has its own unique underwriting requirements. In general, you’ll want a credit score of at least 620 to have the best chance of getting a home equity loan. Keep in mind that your credit score can also affect the interest rate you get. The lowest advertised rates are usually reserved for borrowers with higher credit scores — usually 700 and above.
Recommended Articles
U.S. Bank: Home Equity Review
TD Bank: Home Equity Review
Connexus Credit Union: Home Equity Review
KeyBank: Home Equity Review
Spring EQ: Home Equity Review
Third Federal Savings &amp; Loan: Home Equity Review
Frost Bank: Home Equity Review
Regions Bank: Home Equity Review
Discover: Home Equity Review
BMO Harris Bank: Home Equity Review
Methodology
We evaluated a range of lenders based on factors such as interest rates, APRs and fees, how long the draw and repayment periods are, and what types and variety of loans are offered. We also took into account factors that impact the user experience such as how easy it is to apply for a loan online and whether physical lender locations exist.Learn more about our methodology here.
About the Author
Katherine Watt Former Staff Writer Katherine Watt Former Staff Writer
Katherine Watt is a former CNET Money writer focusing on mortgages, home equity and banking. She previously wrote about personal finance for NextAdvisor. Based in New York, Katherine graduated summa cum laude from Colgate University with a bachelor's degree in English literature.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.