The best sleep headphones of 2025: Expert tested | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: May 30, 2025 at 12:01 PM PDT
Home
Tech
Wearables
Headphones
Updated on: May 30, 2025 at 12:01 PM PDT
These sleep headphones helped me catch up on lost sleep - and fall asleep fast
I tested the best sleep headphones to find which whisked me away to sleep in minutes. These are the ones I recommend most.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Reviewed by
Kayla Solino
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Ozlo Sleepbuds | Best sleep headphones overall
Best sleep headphones overall
Ozlo Sleepbuds
View now View at Ozlo Soundcore by Anker Sleep A20 earbuds | Best mid-range sleep headphones
Best mid-range sleep headphones
Soundcore by Anker Sleep A20 earbuds
View now View at Amazon LC-Dolida Sleep Headphones and Mask | Best headphone and sleep mask duo
Best headphone and sleep mask duo
LC-Dolida Sleep Headphones and Mask
View now View at Amazon Loop Dream Earplugs | Best sleep earplugs
Best sleep earplugs
Loop Dream Earplugs
View now View at Loop
Best headphone deals of the week
Apple AirPods Max ANC Wireless Headphones (USB-C Charging, Blue):  $500 (save $50)
Soundcore Life Q20 Hybrid Active Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $40 (save $20)
Beats Studio Pro Wireless Noise Cancelling Headphones (Black):  $250 (save $101)
Sony WH-1000XM4 Wireless Noise Cancelling Over-Ear Headphones:  $278 (save $70)
Sennheiser Momentum 4 Wireless ANC Over-Ear Headphones (Black):  $300 (save $80) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
It's a challenge getting to bed some nights, especially if your bedroom isn't quiet. Although sound machines can effectively block out noises while you sleep, the best sleep earbuds offer a more compact, subtle, and personal approach that won't disrupt the partner sleeping across from you.ZDNET staffers conducted hands-on testing and extensive research to find sleep headphones equipped with flat speakers, active noise canceling (ANC) technology, and a long-lasting battery life that can be a game changer for a good night's rest, especially if noise is your number one nightmare. Some are earbuds that stick in your ear for the whole night, and others wrap around your head or eyes for a quicker and easier descent into slumber. What are the best sleep headphones right now? Our pick for the best sleep headphones overall are the Ozlo Sleepbuds for their comfortable fit for side sleepers and the effective white noise they produce that masks disruptions around you. But I've also included alternatives with different price ranges and form factors, from a headphone sleep mask to sleep earplugs (in case you're tired of charging yet another device). Find out how the sleep headphones we've tested stack up on this list -- and on your pillow. Also: The best cheap headphones: Budget-friendly options in 2025
Sort by
All
The best sleep headphones of 2025 Show less
View now at Ozlo Why we like them The Ozlo Sleepbuds are impressively effective at their job: getting you to bed. Once the Sleepbuds are in your ears, they produce noise-masking (not noise-canceling) white noise that's dialed at the perfect volume to reduce external distractions and help you quickly fall asleep (and you don't even need to connect them with a phone or the app for this to work). My bedroom overlooks a bustling Brooklyn street that is always polluted with noise, like police sirens, screaming ambulances, neighbors singing and celebrating into the wee hours of the night, and pedestrians yelling at each other. These earbuds simplified my descent into sleep -- I put these earbuds in and couldn't hear a song or chatter outside my window. If you download the app, you can customize your sleep sounds with up to 10 to choose from, set up an alarm in the earbuds, and put a timer on the earbuds for them to shut down after you've gone to bed. Some features, like sleep tracking, will also be coming soon in an over-the-air app update. As far as comfort goes, you won't find a sleep earbud that's more comfortable to sleep in. This is thanks to the stabilizing ear wings that keep the buds in place without additional pressure buildup (that tends to cause soreness and sensitivity). I'm a side sleeper and found these the most comfortable to wear as I turned from one side of my head to the other. In my review, I write that they dissolved into my ears, becoming nearly invisible as I fell asleep, which is all that you really want out of a sleep earbud.Who should buy them Of course, $300 is still a pretty penny to pay for a decent night of uninterrupted sleep. But the Ozlo Sleepbuds are the best earbuds for a reason: they have a thoughtful design, are an effective sound-masking technology, and are a comfortable fit that makes me want to wear them every night.If I could describe the Ozlo Sleepbuds' perfect customer, it would be someone who has a noisy partner or bedroom conditions that prevent them from easily falling asleep. They have some money to spend on the finest sleep earbuds on the market. Maybe they're a side sleeper and are seeking out a sleep earbud that will feel comfortable as they lie on their side. Who should look elsewhereIf $350 is too much to spend right now, I'd suggest the Anker A20 sleep earbuds, which also produce noise-masking soundscapes and offer a flat, comfortable fit, but are half the price. Also: I actually want to put these $350 sleep earbuds in my ears every night Ozlo Sleepbuds tech specs: Form factor: Earbuds | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Battery: 10 hours in the earbuds | Fit: In-ear
Pros
Prioritize comfort, especially for side sleepers.
Sound level and noise masking are effective at dimming down environmental disturbances and getting you to sleep quickly.
Cons
Some features, like sleep tracking, are unavailable at launch
App setup was glitchy
Ozlo Sleepbuds Best sleep headphones overall
Why we like them The Ozlo Sleepbuds are impressively effective at their job: getting you to bed. Once the Sleepbuds are in your ears, they produce noise-masking (not noise-canceling) white noise that's dialed at the perfect volume to reduce external distractions and help you quickly fall asleep (and you don't even need to connect them with a phone or the app for this to work). My bedroom overlooks a bustling Brooklyn street that is always polluted with noise, like police sirens, screaming ambulances, neighbors singing and celebrating into the wee hours of the night, and pedestrians yelling at each other. These earbuds simplified my descent into sleep -- I put these earbuds in and couldn't hear a song or chatter outside my window. If you download the app, you can customize your sleep sounds with up to 10 to choose from, set up an alarm in the earbuds, and put a timer on the earbuds for them to shut down after you've gone to bed. Some features, like sleep tracking, will also be coming soon in an over-the-air app update. As far as comfort goes, you won't find a sleep earbud that's more comfortable to sleep in. This is thanks to the stabilizing ear wings that keep the buds in place without additional pressure buildup (that tends to cause soreness and sensitivity). I'm a side sleeper and found these the most comfortable to wear as I turned from one side of my head to the other. In my review, I write that they dissolved into my ears, becoming nearly invisible as I fell asleep, which is all that you really want out of a sleep earbud.Who should buy them Of course, $300 is still a pretty penny to pay for a decent night of uninterrupted sleep. But the Ozlo Sleepbuds are the best earbuds for a reason: they have a thoughtful design, are an effective sound-masking technology, and are a comfortable fit that makes me want to wear them every night.If I could describe the Ozlo Sleepbuds' perfect customer, it would be someone who has a noisy partner or bedroom conditions that prevent them from easily falling asleep. They have some money to spend on the finest sleep earbuds on the market. Maybe they're a side sleeper and are seeking out a sleep earbud that will feel comfortable as they lie on their side. Who should look elsewhereIf $350 is too much to spend right now, I'd suggest the Anker A20 sleep earbuds, which also produce noise-masking soundscapes and offer a flat, comfortable fit, but are half the price. Also: I actually want to put these $350 sleep earbuds in my ears every night Ozlo Sleepbuds tech specs: Form factor: Earbuds | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Battery: 10 hours in the earbuds | Fit: In-ear
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like them A good pair of sleep earbuds should be nearly unnoticeable in your ears as you sleep. When I slept with them for a few nights, the new Soundcore A20 sleep earbuds got as close to invisible as a pair of earbuds can. As a side sleeper, I had no trouble wearing these while I slept because the flat end of the earbud doesn't put pressure into my ear or cause discomfort that keeps me up. The A20 improves on the previous model, the A10, through longer battery life, a new find my earbuds feature, and Twin Seal ear tips for added noise masking. But while the updates make the earbuds easier to use, the earbuds still aren't without their flaws. These aren't the best for canceling environmental noise, like a snoring partner, a busy street your bedroom looks out upon, or a loud upstairs neighbor blasting their music. Who should buy them I'd recommend these less for people who want to dim down a loud bedroom setting and more for others who already have a silent sleep environment and are looking for a comfortable earbud to use for listening to audiobooks, music, or other soundscapes to fall asleep.These are a great mid-range option if the Ozlo Sleepbuds are out of your budget. Who should look elsewhere If you want an earbud that will do a stronger job of masking most noises, I'd recommend the Ozlo Sleepbuds. Also: These sleep earbuds are a dream for side sleepers. But there's a catch Soundcore Sleep A20 earbuds tech specs: Form factor: Earbuds | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Battery: 14 hours in the earbuds and 80 in the charging case | Fit: In-ear
Pros
A comfortable fit
So many soundscapes to layer and listen to through the app
Long battery life
Find my earbuds feature
Cons
Does not cancel noise well
App experience isn't always intuitive
Many customers return the item on Amazon
Soundcore by Anker Sleep A20 earbuds Best mid-range sleep headphones
Why we like them A good pair of sleep earbuds should be nearly unnoticeable in your ears as you sleep. When I slept with them for a few nights, the new Soundcore A20 sleep earbuds got as close to invisible as a pair of earbuds can. As a side sleeper, I had no trouble wearing these while I slept because the flat end of the earbud doesn't put pressure into my ear or cause discomfort that keeps me up. The A20 improves on the previous model, the A10, through longer battery life, a new find my earbuds feature, and Twin Seal ear tips for added noise masking. But while the updates make the earbuds easier to use, the earbuds still aren't without their flaws. These aren't the best for canceling environmental noise, like a snoring partner, a busy street your bedroom looks out upon, or a loud upstairs neighbor blasting their music. Who should buy them I'd recommend these less for people who want to dim down a loud bedroom setting and more for others who already have a silent sleep environment and are looking for a comfortable earbud to use for listening to audiobooks, music, or other soundscapes to fall asleep.These are a great mid-range option if the Ozlo Sleepbuds are out of your budget. Who should look elsewhere If you want an earbud that will do a stronger job of masking most noises, I'd recommend the Ozlo Sleepbuds. Also: These sleep earbuds are a dream for side sleepers. But there's a catch Soundcore Sleep A20 earbuds tech specs: Form factor: Earbuds | Connectivity: Bluetooth | Battery: 14 hours in the earbuds and 80 in the charging case | Fit: In-ear
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like them The sleep mask comes with eye cups that truly block out any light in your field of vision, which I love. And the flat headphones hover over your ears. They aren't notably immersive, but they dampen most sounds if you raise the volume high enough. I like to listen to brown noise playlists with these on to fall asleep, and I can confidently say I'm out in minutes. Plus, the battery life is substantial. I can wear these for two nights straight without them dying on me -- for around $20 (Amazon says it costs $40, but is normally around the $20 range with wavering discounts), that's not bad at all.I have a small head, move around in my sleep, and can rarely keep a mask on for the entirety of a night, so I wasn't surprised when I woke up with the headphones off a few times. "If you sleep with a partner who snores, live next to a busy street, or have loud roommates, you will surely benefit from this headphone sleep mask. It's everything I want out of a sleep device: it's got a decent battery life, it's comfortable, and it immerses you in noise that dulls -- but doesn't fully eliminate -- distracting sounds around you," I wrote in my spotlight of the sleep mask.Who should buy them This product is a great gateway into sleep headphones with dual functionality as a sleep mask. It's also the most affordable headphone choice on this list. So if you're dabbling in the sleep headphones space and don't want to spend lots of money to try out a pair of headphones, I'd recommend these. Who should look elsewhere These won't eliminate all sounds around you, so if you want a pair of earbuds that will do that better, I'd recommend the Ozlo Sleepbuds or the Anker A20 sleep earbuds. Also: Trouble sleeping? I used this $19 wearable to fall asleep near instantly LC-Dolida Sleep Headphones and Mask tech specs: Form factor: Over-ear | Connectivity: Bluetooth 5.2 | Battery life: 8-10 hours | Fit: Adjustable velcro strap
Pros
No light enters the sleep mask
Great for partial awareness
Nice battery life for the price
Cons
Speakers could be louder
Charging cord is right next to your face as you sleep
LC-Dolida Sleep Headphones and Mask Best headphone and sleep mask duo
Why we like them The sleep mask comes with eye cups that truly block out any light in your field of vision, which I love. And the flat headphones hover over your ears. They aren't notably immersive, but they dampen most sounds if you raise the volume high enough. I like to listen to brown noise playlists with these on to fall asleep, and I can confidently say I'm out in minutes. Plus, the battery life is substantial. I can wear these for two nights straight without them dying on me -- for around $20 (Amazon says it costs $40, but is normally around the $20 range with wavering discounts), that's not bad at all.I have a small head, move around in my sleep, and can rarely keep a mask on for the entirety of a night, so I wasn't surprised when I woke up with the headphones off a few times. "If you sleep with a partner who snores, live next to a busy street, or have loud roommates, you will surely benefit from this headphone sleep mask. It's everything I want out of a sleep device: it's got a decent battery life, it's comfortable, and it immerses you in noise that dulls -- but doesn't fully eliminate -- distracting sounds around you," I wrote in my spotlight of the sleep mask.Who should buy them This product is a great gateway into sleep headphones with dual functionality as a sleep mask. It's also the most affordable headphone choice on this list. So if you're dabbling in the sleep headphones space and don't want to spend lots of money to try out a pair of headphones, I'd recommend these. Who should look elsewhere These won't eliminate all sounds around you, so if you want a pair of earbuds that will do that better, I'd recommend the Ozlo Sleepbuds or the Anker A20 sleep earbuds. Also: Trouble sleeping? I used this $19 wearable to fall asleep near instantly LC-Dolida Sleep Headphones and Mask tech specs: Form factor: Over-ear | Connectivity: Bluetooth 5.2 | Battery life: 8-10 hours | Fit: Adjustable velcro strap
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Loop Why we like them Maybe all you want is silence -- no ambient noise or music or Bluetooth connection to whisk you away to slumber. If that's the case, I 100% recommend these earplugs to get that job done. You'll need some patience to try on the right size ear tip and secure it into place in your ear. At first try, it may not even feel like it's doing anything. Lift up your ear, twist the earplug into place, and then press it, and you'll hear absolutely nothing. I was astonished upon trying the Loop Dream on because I rarely experience silence in my Brooklyn bedroom -- not from my roommates' chatter or the noisy street outside my bedroom window. I did when I put these on. To test out how they'd work with a snoring partner, I played snoring sounds on my phone, and the earplugs made the sounds on medium volume sound far more distant than they were. The earplugs sit comfortably and inconspicuously in your ears thanks to the flat wing. These are great for side sleepers like myself, because of how small, light, and flat they are.Who should buy them People who want to dim down their environment but don't want to listen to music or soundscapes will love these earplugs. They get me as close to silence as I can in my noisy bedroom. Who should look elsewhereIf $50 is still too much too spend to get to sleep, I'd recommend the LC-Dolida sleep headphones mask for some ambient noise to fall asleep to. Also: These $50 earplugs replaced my $300 sleep earbudsLoop Dream tech specs: Form factor: In-ear | Connectivity: None | Battery life: None | Fit: Flat ear wings
Pros
Comfortable
Dims down harsh noises
No charging necessary
Cons
Initially difficult to insert and get sealed sound
Loop Dream Earplugs Best sleep earplugs
Why we like them Maybe all you want is silence -- no ambient noise or music or Bluetooth connection to whisk you away to slumber. If that's the case, I 100% recommend these earplugs to get that job done. You'll need some patience to try on the right size ear tip and secure it into place in your ear. At first try, it may not even feel like it's doing anything. Lift up your ear, twist the earplug into place, and then press it, and you'll hear absolutely nothing. I was astonished upon trying the Loop Dream on because I rarely experience silence in my Brooklyn bedroom -- not from my roommates' chatter or the noisy street outside my bedroom window. I did when I put these on. To test out how they'd work with a snoring partner, I played snoring sounds on my phone, and the earplugs made the sounds on medium volume sound far more distant than they were. The earplugs sit comfortably and inconspicuously in your ears thanks to the flat wing. These are great for side sleepers like myself, because of how small, light, and flat they are.Who should buy them People who want to dim down their environment but don't want to listen to music or soundscapes will love these earplugs. They get me as close to silence as I can in my noisy bedroom. Who should look elsewhereIf $50 is still too much too spend to get to sleep, I'd recommend the LC-Dolida sleep headphones mask for some ambient noise to fall asleep to. Also: These $50 earplugs replaced my $300 sleep earbudsLoop Dream tech specs: Form factor: In-ear | Connectivity: None | Battery life: None | Fit: Flat ear wings
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Which sleeping headphones are right for you?
It depends on what you're looking for relative to the position(s) you sleep in, whether you want ANC, and what price point you're willing to spend. Choose these headphones for sleeping...If you want...Ozlo SleepbudsThe best sleep earbuds you can buy right now, with an uber-comfortable fit and noise-masking that reduces sounds within and outside your bedroom. These are the only sleep earbuds I can see myself wearing every night.Soundcore by Anker Sleep A20The best sleep earbuds for an already-quiet environment. Unobtrusive, these earbuds are no bigger than a nickel, have a 14-hour playback battery life, and track your sleep. They don't cancel noise, so I'd recommend these to people who sleep in a silent bedroom and want to fall asleep to relaxing soundscapes.LC-Dolida Sleep Mask and HeadphonesThe best sleep mask and headphone combo that won't cost you too much. Cancel out noise and sound with this $20 duo.Loop Dream earplugsThe best sleep earplugs you can buy if all you want is silence.
Show more
How did we choose these headphones for sleeping?
We selected these top sleeping headphones by doing extensive research into the product category, as well as performing some testing of our own while considering the following factors:Flat speakers: There's no point in sleeping in headphones if they're not comfortable -- and nothing is more uncomfortable than something poking in your ears. We looked for headphones with speakers that sit comfortably in your ears and against your pillow. Active Noise Canceling capabilities: We looked for headphones that cancel or block out noise so that you can have undisturbed rest. Battery life: All of our picks have battery life that will last you through the night from six to 28 hours. Price: The sleeping headphones on this list range in price from $12 to $300. While you don't need to spend hundreds on a pair of good-quality sleep headphones, more features come with a higher price tag.
Show more
Is it OK to sleep with headphones in?
Yes, it is medically safe to fall asleep while wearing headphones. It is recommended to keep the volume below 85 dB. Also, on-ear or over-ear headphones are preferred over earbuds when considering long-term use since wax buildup and ear canal damage can potentially happen over time with earbud use. So if you're concerned with that, consider a sleep headphone headband instead of one of the earbuds on the list.
Show more
What about playing music with headphones in?
The same goes for playing music. You should try to keep your volume level between 60 and 85 decibels, audio experts confirm. 60 decibels is equivalent to the volume of a normal conversation you have with someone, while 85 decibels sounds like a trafficked city intersection or a loud restaurant.
Show more
FAQs on sleep headphones
Are noise-canceling headphones good for sleeping?
Noise-canceling headphones are great for sleeping since they have built-in technology that virtually blocks out any noise in your bedroom, making it easier to fall asleep in silence.However, noise-canceling headphones for sleeping are not the best option in the case of an emergency since you're essentially tuned out to the world -- especially if you already consider yourself a heavy sleeper.
Show more
Headphones vs earbuds vs Bluetooth sleep masks: Which one takes the crown?
That depends on what you want to get out of your sleep companion. Headphones are best for back sleepers who want to listen to something to get them asleep, while earbuds and sleep masks may work better for side sleepers. Earbuds are the most comfortable, while headphones and Bluetooth sleep masks take some finagling and getting used to.
Show more
Do sleep headphones block out snoring?
Sleep headphones that include noise-canceling capabilities are your best bet for blocking out snoring. That's because headphones with noise-canceling technology use reverse sound waves to nix the external noises around you. A headphone with only sound-masking technology can only do so much to block out the sounds of a snoring partner right next to you. Plus, without a noise-canceling feature in your earbuds, you'll need to raise the volume high on your sleep headphones to mask snoring, but too high of a volume could deter you from falling asleep.
Show more
Alternative sleep headphones worth considering
Best Bluetooth headphone alternative SleepPhones Bluetooth sleep headphones Stream brown or white noise through these Bluetooth headphones for a night of easy dreaming.
View at Amazon
Best headphone alternative for side sleepers Bonamour Sleep System The Bonamour Sleep System uses sound brainwave entrainment technology to get you to sleep and keep you there. These sleep earbuds, according to Bonamour's product page, are great for side sleepers.
View at Bonamour Sleep System
Best headphone alternative Loop Quiet Earplugs These aren't headphones, but I use them to go to bed every night and mute the city sounds outside my window, and I can't recommend the earplugs enough. If you want to ditch the tech and reduce up to 26 decibels of noise, consider the Loop Quiet earplugs as an amazing option for easy sleeping.
View at Amazon
ZDNET’s Headphones Guide
Headphones & Earbuds Roundups
Best headphones overall
Best headphones for sleeping
Best noise canceling earbuds
Best bone conduction headphones
Best music headphones
Best Airpods
Best over ear headphones
Best cheap headphones
Best earbuds under $50
Best wired earbuds
Headphones & Earbuds Reviewed & Compared
Soundcore Sleep A10 earbuds review
Bose QuietComfort Ultra 45 review
Bose QuietComfort Ultra headphones review
Sonos Ace review
Marshall Motif ANC review
Apple AirPods 3 vs AirPods Pro
Galaxy Buds 3 pro vs AirPods Pro 2
Beats Studio Buds vs Apple AirPods Pro 2
Sony WF-1000XM5 vs AirPods Pro 2
Pixel Buds Pro 2 vs Pro
Headphones & Earbuds Explained
How to clean and sanitize your AirPods
How to connect Bluetooth headphones to a Mac
How to reset AirPods
How do noise canceling headphones work?
How to set up your AirPods Pro 2nd Gen
Earbuds vs headphones: How to choose
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use