Amish Sugar Cookies Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Pumpkin Spice Cookies
Sugar Cookies
Pumpkin-Spice Sugar Cookies
Halloween Sugar Cookies
Strawberry Shortcake Cookies
Molasses Sugar Cookies
Cinnamon Sugar Cookies
Amish Cinnamon Rolls
Chocolate Sugar Cookies
Cream Cheese Sugar Cookies
Chocolate Chip Sugar Cookies
Raisin Sweet Potato Cookies
Almond Sugar Cookies
Peppermint Kiss Cookies
Gingerbread House Cookies
Nutmeg Sugar Cookies
Amish Raisin Cookies
Fall Sugar Cookies
Chocolate Gingerbread Cookies
Peppermint Sugar Cookies
Amish Sugar Cookies Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesCookiesDrop Cookies
Amish Sugar Cookies
Amish Sugar Cookies Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4.4 | 301 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 10 min. Bake: 10 min./batch
By
Val Goodrich
Recipe by Sylvia Ford, Kennett, Missouri
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 23, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
The Amish seem to be master bakers, and they did not skimp on Amish sugar cookies.
If you love the soft, pillowy dreaminess of sugar cookies, mint meltaways and snickerdoodles, let us introduce you to Amish sugar cookies. Each bite has a lovely, buttery taste with a melt-in-your-mouth texture that’s truly irresistible. The best part? They’re easy to whip together and require zero chilling, so you’ll be indulging in no time.
Amish baked goods are in a dessert category that’s all their own. With classics like shoofly pie, fastnachts, apple dumplings and whoopie pies, the Amish have perfected their butter-forward bakes. These Amish sugar cookies are a great recipe to get you started in the delicious world of Amish baking.
Ingredients for Amish Sugar Cookies
Butter: Richness and structure come from butter, essential to these cookies.
Canola oil: Canola oil adds moisture and tenderness to the sugar cookies. Oil is liquid at room temperature, meaning it won’t harden as it sits like butter does. This keeps the cookies nice and soft for days.
Confectioners’ sugar: Used alongside regular sugar, confectioners’ sugar provides a light, melt-in-your-mouth cookie texture and sweet taste.
Eggs: Eggs bind the ingredients together so the cookies don’t fall apart.
Cream of tartar: Cream of tartar kickstarts the baking soda and gives these sugar cookies their distinctive soft, chewy texture.
Directions
Step 1: Create the dough
Preheat the oven to 375°F. In a large bowl, use a hand mixer or stand mixer to beat the butter, oil and sugars. Beat in the eggs until well blended. Beat in the vanilla. In a separate bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda and cream of tartar. Gradually beat the dry mixture into the creamed mixture.
Step 2: Bake the cookies
Drop the dough by small teaspoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets. Bake the cookies until they’re lightly browned, 8 to 10 minutes. Remove the cookies to wire racks, and cool to room temperature.
Amish Sugar Cookies Variations
Drizzle on a glaze: A quick confectioners’ sugar glaze gives these cookies a beautiful finished look. Bonus points if the glaze has food coloring or a fun extract mixed in!
Sprinkle in baking spices: Throw in spice blends like pumpkin pie spice, chai spice or fall spices to dress up these Amish sugar cookies.
Add in extract: Along with (or instead of) the vanilla extract, add nutty almond extract, citrusy orange extract or bright lemon extract.
How to Store Amish Sugar Cookies
To store, allow the cookies to cool completely to room temperature. Place the cookies in an airtight container, and store at room temperature for up to three days.
One of the top 10 Amish baking tips is to store cookies in an airtight container along with a slice of bread. Without refrigeration, the Amish have become masters at storing food, and they’ve found that adding a slice of bread to the cookie container keeps the cookies fresher longer. We also love using this hack to soften cookies once they’ve gotten too crunchy.
Can you freeze Amish sugar cookies?
Yes, you can freeze Amish sugar cookies. To freeze cookies for later, allow them to cool to room temperature, then arrange them in a single layer on a baking sheet. Pop the sheet in the freezer until the cookies are frozen solid, about 30 minutes. Then layer the frozen cookies in airtight containers, with a piece of parchment or waxed paper separating each layer. This will help prevent the cookies from sticking to one another. Freeze the containers of cookies for up to three months. Thaw them overnight in the fridge before serving, or pop a few in the microwave until heated through.
Amish Sugar Cookies Tips
Taste of Home
Can you make Amish sugar cookies without cream of tartar?
No, you need the cream of tartar to make Amish sugar cookies. Baking soda needs an acidic ingredient to create the gas bubbles that make baked goods rise and lighten. Cream of tartar (aka tartaric acid) provides that in this recipe. Yay, chemistry!
Can I use Amish butter to make these cookies?
Yes, you can use Amish butter to make these cookies. Amish butter has a higher fat content than American and even some European butters, so it will make your cookies taste even richer and more buttery.
Watch How to Make Amish Sugar Cookies
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Amish Sugar Cookies
4.4 | 301 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:about 5 dozen
Prep:10 min
Cook:10 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1 cup butter, softened
1 cup canola oil
1 cup sugar
1 cup confectioners' sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4-1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 375°. In a large bowl, beat the butter, oil and sugars. Beat in eggs until well blended. Beat in vanilla. Combine the flour, baking soda and cream of tartar; gradually add to creamed mixture.
Drop by small teaspoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets. Bake until lightly browned, 8-10 minutes. Remove to wire racks to cool.
Nutrition Facts
1 cookie: 117 calories, 7g fat (2g saturated fat), 14mg cholesterol, 48mg sodium, 13g carbohydrate (5g sugars, 0 fiber), 1g protein.
Author
Val Goodrich
Val channels her experience from the Culinary Institute of America and a number of bakeries into her daily work at Taste of Home. She’s usually typing away at her desk in Philly, but otherwise, you can find her planning her next trip abroad, using her ice cream maker or filling her basket at the farmers market.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
These easy-to-make, old-fashioned Amish sugar cookies simply melt in your mouth! I've passed this recipe around to many friends. After I gave it to my sister, she entered the cookies in a local fair and won best of show. —Sylvia Ford, Kennett, Missouri
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box