Nerdy and easy to pronounce: why we chose Apheros as the name for our technology start-up firm
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
career feature
article
CAREER FEATURE
23 September 2025
Nerdy and easy to pronounce: why we chose Apheros as the name for our technology start-up firm
With a grant deadline looming, and inspired by the classics, Julia Carpenter, the company’s chief executive and co-founder, put pen to paper to capture ideas.
By
Jacqui Thornton0
Jacqui Thornton
Jacqui Thornton is a freelance writer based in Winchester, UK.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Find a new job
Julia Carpenter (bottom centre) and Gaëlle Andreatta (bottom, second from right) with their colleagues at Apheros.Credit: Daniel WinklerThe meaning behind our monikerThis article is the second in a six-part series in which the chief executives of science companies describe how they landed on a name for their business that resonates with customers, colleagues and investors.Julia Carpenter is chief executive of Apheros, a technology company based in Zurich, Switzerland, that produces patented metal foams used in fluid-based cooling systems. She explains that the idea for the firm developed out of her PhD project in materials sciences at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) in Zurich. Carpenter joined forces with co-founder Gaëlle Andreatta, who has a background in physical chemistry and is now the firm’s chief technology officer. In the last year of my PhD, I knew I was going to start a company, so I started thinking about a name. I worked on it, old-style, on a sheet of paper for maybe an hour a day for a couple of weeks. It had to be a fast process, because I needed a name to meet deadlines for my first grant applications. I wanted to achieve three things with the name. It had to be something that is unique and that would pop up in a Google search; something that has a connection to the metal foams; and something a bit nerdy. Also, I wanted a name that you can pronounce. I’ve always been interested in languages. In secondary school in Switzerland, I studied Greek and Latin, as well as English, French and German, plus one year of Arabic. In most languages, iron and metal are the same or similar words. So, I started combining and playing with three words: iron, metal and foam. Classical rootsI went back to my roots in the classics. Aphrós means foam in Greek; Aphrodite, the Greek goddess of love and beauty, is born from sea foam. The only people who can look at the company’s name, Apheros, and know immediately are likely to be Greek scientists. The ‘e’ that I slipped in there is from ferrum, iron in Latin. So, the name means ‘iron foam’. It was important to me to keep the ‘ph’ — I love a ph. I was annoyed in 1996 when, in German all the ph’s could be replaced by f’s: so foto, instead of photo. Series: The meaning behind our monikerDuring this iterative process, I googled ‘Apheros’ to see if it was used by anyone else. In the process, I happened on a start-up agrotechnology company in Switzerland, and then I found one in Germany with almost exactly the same name in the same industry. I did not want that to happen with us. I did find a wine company with a similar name to Apheros in Portugal, and a Pokémon-like card-based game called Elestrals, featuring a character whose name is also similar. So there wasn’t any direct competition, in that these were not in the same space as ours. Once I had a couple of options, I threw them out to friends and family, and if they thought something sounded weird or strange, then I went back to my sheet of paper. Interestingly, I can’t remember what the other options were.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02653-0This interview has been edited for length and clarity.Subscribe to Nature Briefing: Careers, an unmissable free weekly round-up of help and advice for working scientists.
Related Articles
The meaning behind the moniker: how to choose a science-company name that delights customers, colleagues and investors
My career path from chemist to spin-off co-founder to chief technology officer
Why a silly-sounding name suits the serious mission of our biotech spin-off
The business of science
Careers advice from scientists in industry
Series: The meaning behind our moniker
Subjects
Industry
Language
Careers
Latest on:
Industry
Language
Careers
China’s private higher-education sector is at a turning point
Correspondence 23 SEP 25
The meaning behind the moniker: how to choose a science-company name that delights
Career Feature 23 SEP 25
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
News 17 SEP 25
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
News Feature 17 SEP 25
AI models are neglecting African languages — scientists want to change that
News 29 JUL 25
Meet Aeneas: the AI that can fill in the gaps of damaged Latin texts
News 23 JUL 25
Retractions can reshape scientists’ careers in unexpected ways
Nature Index 25 SEP 25
Mammoth challenge: why we called our de-extinction company Colossal Biosciences
Career Feature 25 SEP 25
It’s not wokeness — it’s human rights
Career Q&A 24 SEP 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University School of Medicine
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
The meaning behind the moniker: how to choose a science-company name that delights customers, colleagues and investors
My career path from chemist to spin-off co-founder to chief technology officer
Why a silly-sounding name suits the serious mission of our biotech spin-off
The business of science
Careers advice from scientists in industry
Series: The meaning behind our moniker
Subjects
Industry
Language
Careers
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited