You can win an Asus ROG Ally X by declaring your favorite game: here's how
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
You can win an Asus ROG Ally X by declaring your favorite game: here's how
By
Simon Batt
Published 3 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Handheld PC gaming booms post‑Steam Deck; many alternatives run Windows 11 or SteamOS.
Hell Is Us is giving away the only‑ever ice‑blue ROG Ally X plus the game to only one winner.
To enter: RT the post, follow @HellisUsGame, and comment your all‑time favorite game.
The handheld gaming scene has continued to grow in strength over the past few years. Ever since the Steam Deck changed how we play our PC titles, other companies have taken their shots at making the perfect portable pal, and there are a ton of excellent Steam Deck alternatives out there for you to try out. You can pick out a budget-oriented model or splash out on a deluxe version, then equip it with either Windows 11 or SteamOS. Life's pretty good for gamers on the go. If you want in on the scene but you're not keen on dropping a lot of money on a new console, the Hell Is Us team may just have what you're looking for. They're giving away an exclusive Hell Is Us edition of the ROG Ally X, plus a copy of the game itself, to one lucky winner. On top of that, there's only one of these in existence right now, which means you can also score some serious bragging rights.
Hell Is Us is giving away a ROG Ally X with a free game
In a post on X (thanks for the spot, Notebook Check!), the Hell Is Us team showed off this shiny, one-of-a-kind ROG Ally X. It has a really sleek, ice-blue look to it, which makes it even more painful that it's going to be the only one ever to exist. Seriously, I never win these giveaways.
If you want to win it, head over to X, RT the post, follow the good people giving away this console, then comment declaring your favorite game of all time. I'm not sure if saying that Hell Is Us is your fave game will earn you favor or if they think you're just being nice for the sake of a free console, but if you really love the game, you might as well try it. And if you want to see what it's like, we published a review about the ROG Ally X. It's worth noting that since its publication, Valve has released SteamOS for the public to install on whatever they please, so that's definitely an option if you dislike Windows 11.
Gaming Handhelds
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
Windows 11 25H2 is in the final stages of release as Microsoft preps for the big day
4 days ago
If you're not a gamer, this is the PC you should build for 2026
3 days ago
I tried using a FreeBSD distro that's meant to be run off a flash drive
3 days ago
Proxmox hookscripts are the best automation feature you're not using
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
58 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Forget VRAM — these 5 GPU trends are way more disturbing
I've saved more than $150 with these 3D prints
OPNsense is perfect for protecting your home network, but it can cause unexpected issues
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.