FAQ | Rotten Tomatoes
Signed in
Skip to Main Content
☰
Cancel
About Rotten Tomatoes®
Critics
Login/signup
Wants to See
Ratings
Profile
Account
Log Out
Movies
Movies in theaters
Opening This Week
Top Box Office
Coming Soon to Theaters
Certified Fresh Movies
Movies at Home
Fandango at Home
Peacock
Netflix
Apple TV+
Prime Video
Most Popular Streaming movies
Certified Fresh movies
Browse all
More
What to WatchNew
Certified fresh picks
89%
The Long Walk
Link to The Long Walk
91%
Downton Abbey: The Grand Finale
Link to Downton Abbey: The Grand Finale
97%
Twinless
Link to Twinless
Tv shows
New TV Tonight
20%
Emmys: Season 77
89%
Black Rabbit: Season 1
90%
Gen V: Season 2
100%
Reunion: Season 1
--
The Morning Show: Season 4
--
High Potential: Season 2
--
Haunted Hotel: Season 1
--
Futurama: Season 13
--
Reasonable Doubt: Season 3
--
Lego Star Wars: Rebuild the Galaxy -- Pieces of the Past: Season 2
View All
Most Popular TV on RT
86%
The Girlfriend: Season 1
89%
Task: Season 1
95%
Alien: Earth: Season 1
89%
Black Rabbit: Season 1
100%
The Dead Girls: Season 1
85%
The Paper: Season 1
75%
The Terminal List: Dark Wolf: Season 1
93%
Chief of War: Season 1
98%
Adolescence: Season 1
99%
Peacemaker: Season 2
View All
More
What to WatchNew
Best TV Shows
Most Popular TV
Fandango at Home
Peacock
Paramount+
Netflix
Prime Video
Apple TV+
Certified fresh pick
86%
The Girlfriend: Season 1
Link to The Girlfriend: Season 1
RT App
New
News
Columns
All-Time Lists
Binge Guide
Comics on TV
Countdown
Five Favorite Films
Video Interviews
Weekend Box Office
Weekly Ketchup
What to Watch
Guides
All Robert Redford Movies Ranked
Link to All Robert Redford Movies Ranked
Best TV Shows of 2025: New Series to Watch Now
Link to Best TV Shows of 2025: New Series to Watch Now
View All
Hubs
What to Watch: In Theaters and On Streaming
Link to What to Watch: In Theaters and On Streaming
Awards Tour
Link to Awards Tour
View All
RT News
Gen V: Season 2 First Reviews: Just as Violent, Shocking, Funny, and Thoughtful as Season 1
Link to Gen V: Season 2 First Reviews: Just as Violent, Shocking, Funny, and Thoughtful as Season 1
Weekend Box Office: Demon Slayer Dominates with Biggest Anime Opening of All Time
Link to Weekend Box Office: Demon Slayer Dominates with Biggest Anime Opening of All Time
View All
Showtimes
Trending on RT
Emmy Winners
Best New Horror
Re-Release Calendar
The Rotten Tomatoes App
Frequently Asked Questions
ABOUT ROTTEN TOMATOES
Who owns Rotten Tomatoes? Who is the parent company?
Rotten Tomatoes is owned by Fandango, which is a joint venture of majority owner NBCUniversal,
which is owned by Comcast, and minority owner Warner Bros., which is owned by Warner Bros. Discovery.
COMMUNITY CODE OF CONDUCT
Does Rotten Tomatoes have a Community Code of Conduct?
At Rotten Tomatoes, we are always looking to update our policies to try to ensure we maintain a safe and fair community
for every movie and TV fan. For our Community Code of Conduct, click HERE.
You can also find our Tomatometer-approved Critics Code of Conduct HERE.
ACCESSIBILITY
At Fandango, we are committed to making our products, content, and experiences accessible to the widest possible audience,
including people with disabilities. We are actively working to increase the accessibility and usability of Rotten Tomatoes.
This website strives to conform to level AA of the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1.
We also provide closed captions on movie trailers that are available through our website.
For more information or to contact us about an issue related to website accessibility, please contact us:
Customer Support.
TOMATOMETER
What is the Tomatometer?
Tomatometer scores are based on the collective opinions of hundreds of film and television critics and serve as a trusted
measurement of critical entertainment recommendation for millions of fans. The Tomatometer score represents the percentage
of professional critic reviews that are positive for a given film or television show. Learn more about our Tomatometer
HERE.
When does a Tomatometer score appear on the site?
We have recently updated our criteria for the number of reviews it takes for a Tomatometer score to populate.
You can read more about that HERE.
Why do some scores fluctuate or change?
Tomatometer scores are fluid, they can change over time as review counts fluctuate for a given film or TV show.
Learn more about our Tomatometer HERE
and how reviews are curated HERE.
What is the difference between the Tomatometer and Popcornmeter?
The Tomatometer score is calculated from reviews published by Tomatometer-approved
critics. The Popcornmeter is calculated from ratings submitted to Rotten Tomatoes
by users. Learn more about our Tomatometer
and the Popcornmeter.
Why doesn't Rotten Tomatoes have a mixed rating?
Tomatometer scores fall into 3 easy-to-understand categories: Fresh (60% and up), Rotten (59% and below),
and Certified Fresh for films with more than 75% positive reviews that meet other criteria - see the criteria
HERE.
For reviews that have an original (outside) rating (e.g. star, letter grade, numeric)
we post that with the review on the site.
What is the Adjusted Tomatometer?
The Adjusted Tomatometer Score, which often appears in editorial lists, takes into account the number of reviews,
the year of release, and the average Tomatometer scores of other films released contemporaneously.
It is primarily used when comparing or ranking films across several decades.
The adjusted score is not the official Tomatometer score, and it is not used on movie or TV pages.
What is the Recommendation Formula?
The Recommendation Formula, which often appears in editorial lists, takes into account a movie's Tomatometer
rating with assistance from its Popcornmeter. Other factors weighing into the movie recommendation formula:
the number of critic reviews, the number of user ratings, and year of release. An editorial
pass is reserved to finesse the final list, which includes minimum thresholds for each of these data points.
REVIEWS
What is an embargo date?
A review embargo is set by the studio or TV network and prohibits outlets and organizations that have seen
the film / TV show from posting reviews until that specified time. Sometimes studios and TV networks also
set embargoes for social media reactions from critics and journalists.
Why don't certain movies or TV shows have Tomatometer scores yet?
We have recently updated our criteria for the number of reviews it takes for a Tomatometer
score to populate. You can read more about that HERE.
Why do certain movies only have a few reviews?
There are a variety of reasons why a film or TV show may not have many reviews on
Rotten Tomatoes. The simplest explanation is there may not be many reviews from
Tomatometer-approved critics available for that specific film or TV show in question.
Other reasons include:
Some available reviews haven't been collected or added yet.
A film or TV show is from an era when film criticism was not as robust
as it is now.
A film or TV show review appeared in a print publication and may not have been
published or made available online.
Why is one review with a 2.5 marked Fresh while another review marked 2.5 is marked Rotten?
Likewise, why is one review with a 3/5 marked Fresh while another is marked Rotten?
Shouldn't they always be Fresh or always be Rotten?
Sometimes a reviewer will give a rating that is in the middle, so a decision has to be made:
is it Fresh or is it Rotten? When those reviews have been added to RT by a self-submitting
critic or publication, we defer to their judgement. When our review curation team comes
across a mixed review, we have a process in place to determine whether it is mixed-positive
or mixed-negative. When two reviews that have the same individual rating are alternately
marked Fresh and Rotten, it means that for one of those reviews, the critic felt mixed-positive,
and for the other, the critic felt mixed-negative. Learn more about our curation process
HERE.
Who writes these reviews? Will you post mine?
Tomatometer-approved critics come from all across the U.S., and the world. They publish
on a variety of platforms - among them you'll find podcasters, newspaper and magazine
writers, bloggers, and YouTubers. Their reviews embody several key values - insight and
dedication among them - and meet a set of
Eligibility Guidelines.
See our list of
Tomatometer-approved critics.
Where is the Average rating now on the site?
The average rating can be viewed by clicking on the Tomatometer or Popcornmeter
in the score box on movie and TV pages.
What is the Average Rating? How is it calculated?
The Average Rating is an average of the individual critic scores, based on a 1-10 scale.
Each critic's original rating scale (e.g. star, letter grade, numeric) is converted to a
number between 1 and 10, and then the numbers are averaged. Reviews without individual
ratings are not counted in the Average Rating calculation, and a minimum of five reviews
with individual ratings is required for an Average Rating to be calculated. The Average
Rating measures the overall quality of a film or TV show based on an average of individual
critic scores. The Tomatometer simply measures the percentage of positive reviews for a
given film or TV show.
CRITICS
Does Rotten Tomatoes employ critics?
No, Rotten Tomatoes does not employ critics.
What is a review aggregator?
A review aggregator is a website that collects reviews of products and services. Rotten
Tomatoes collects film and TV reviews from critics who publish at outlets worldwide.
These reviews are rated either Fresh or Rotten, which contributes to a film or TV show's
Tomatometer score. Learn more about the Tomatometer
HERE.
What is the difference between a Critic Review, an Audience Review, and a User Rating?
A Critic Review is a review of a film or TV show that has been published by a
Tomatometer-approved critic or source. An Audience Review is a review of a film or TV
show that has been submitted by a Rotten Tomatoes user. A User Rating is a star rating
given by a Rotten Tomatoes user through a star-rating mechanism.
Learn more about audience reviews and user ratings
HERE.
Who are the approved Tomatometer critics?
Tomatometer-approved critics come from all across the U.S., and the world. They publish
on a variety of platforms - among them you'll find podcasters, newspaper and magazine
writers, bloggers, and YouTubers. Their reviews embody several key values - insight and
dedication among them - and meet a set of
Eligibility Guidelines.
See our list of
Tomatometer-approved critics.
How can I become a Tomatometer-approved critic?
To become Tomatometer-approved, critics need to meet the eligibility guidelines and key
values outlined in our Critics Criteria.
How does someone become a Top Critic?
Unlike critics who can apply to be Tomatometer approved, Top Critic status is granted by
a set of criteria and a selection panel that includes the Rotten Tomatoes critic
relations and curation teams, and a newly formed advisory board of critics and industry
professionals. It cannot be applied for.
How do you identify who will receive Top Critic status?
We have an internal team at Rotten Tomatoes who continuously monitors and proactively
identifies critics who qualify for Top Critic status.
AUDIENCE REVIEWS
What is the difference between the audience review and User Rating?
An audience review is a text review of a film or TV show that has been submitted by a
Rotten Tomatoes user. A User Rating is a user's star rating on a film or TV show,
without a text review.
How do I leave a review?
If you are logged in, you can go to any movie or TV show's page to rate and/or review it
using the star-rating system and text box. You can see your ratings by clicking on
Profile in the drop-down menu at the top right of the page.
What is the minimum length of an Audience Review?
We require reviews to be a minimum of 20 characters in length.
When do I get to submit my audience review?
After confirming your email address, you can write a review when logged in to the site
through a Rotten Tomatoes account or Gmail log-in. When you are logged in, you'll be
able to view a movie's details page and rate and/or review the movie using the stars
and text box. For movies, reviews can be left after the film's theatrical release date.
Why is my review not showing up right away?
To encourage thoughtful discussion, we require reviews to be a minimum of 20
characters in length to be published. Please also keep in mind that reviews may take
some time to be published and are subject to our
Code of Conduct.
If you continue having trouble, contact customer service.
When does the Popcornmeter appear?
The Popcornmeter becomes available after the release date for a film or TV show. Only
after that will users be able to leave an audience review or user rating.
Why can't I leave a review before the movie is released?
Rotten Tomatoes users can only leave audience reviews and user ratings following a
movie's U.S. release date, as listed on our site. Verified Reviews are available for
movies in the U.S. that were released after May 2019 - the date we added this feature.
Why do some movies display the Popcornmeter and user reviews before their release date?
A number of films are shown in special preview screenings or early screening series
prior to their official U.S. release date. We allow users to rate and review these movies
from the time of their first large-scale screenings.
What is a Verified Review?
A Verified Review is a review written by a user who we can confirm bought a ticket to
the movie they're reviewing, which we believe is a strong indicator that they have seen
the movie. “Verified” will be displayed next to a review to help users identify which
reviews are “Verified.”
How does my review become verified?
When you submit a review on Rotten Tomatoes or Fandango, if the account matches
the email address you used to buy your ticket on Fandango, we will mark your
review as “Verified”.
How do I know if my review has been verified?
If we're able to verify your ticket purchase, you'll see “Verified” next to your review
once it's posted to Rotten Tomatoes.
Why is my review not verified?
Currently, if you did not buy your ticket from Fandango, your review cannot be
“Verified”. We are planning to work with other ticket providers to help verify Rotten
Tomatoes reviews and will add new options for verification in the future. If you
purchased a ticket from Fandango and are having issues with your review being
verified, please contact customer service.
Do all movies have Verified Reviews?
Verified Reviews are possible for movies released in theaters in the United States from
May 2019 onward. Currently, Verified Ratings or Reviews are not possible for movies
released before that date and movies not released theatrically, as well as TV and
streaming titles. We are planning to add functionality that will allow us to verify
reviews no matter how and where a user saw a movie, TV, or streaming title.
Can I see all user ratings and reviews, even if they weren't verified?
If you're interested in seeing the Popcornmeter that includes all included ratings, not
just those that have been verified, you can click on the Tomatometer or Popcornmeter
and choose “All Audience”. When reading reviews, choose the “All Audience” tab and all
reviews will display with the newest one showing first. Verified Reviews will be
displayed with a “Verified” icon to show we've confirmed that the reviewer has
purchased a ticket to that movie.
Can reviews from outside of the United States be verified?
Currently, we are only able to verify reviews for movies from reviewers who purchased
tickets in the United States. We are working on ways we may be able to offer this
feature for other reviewers outside of the United States in the future.
Why aren't there Verified Reviews on television pages and all movie pages?
Verified Reviews are available for movies that were released in the United States May
2019 - the date we added this feature. We're planning to add other ticket and
content providers in the future to help us verify reviews for more movies and
TV/streaming.
Will you be adding more ways to verify reviews?
We are actively working on adding more ticket providers to help us confirm ticket
purchases, as well as functionality that will allow us to verify reviews no matter how
and where the user saw a movie.
Can I verify my reviews for Netflix and other streaming services?
Not currently, but we are always looking to improve the usefulness of our audience
rating system for fans and are working on ways we may be able to do this in future.
I purchased a physical ticket to a movie; how do I verify my review?
Currently, we cannot verify physical ticket purchases. However, we're currently
considering ways we could do so in the future.
Someone purchased a ticket for me, how do I verify my review?
At this time, we can only verify one review and rating per transaction. So, if someone
buys more than one ticket - say, for a bunch of friends - each person can leave a
review, but only the person with the email address used for the purchase can have
their review verified.
Which companies are included in verifying tickets? Will there be more added in the future?
Currently, users can verify their reviews through Fandango. We are currently working
to bring on additional ticket providers to help us verify reviews and ratings.
If my review is verified why isn't it included in the Tomatometer?
The Tomatometer is generated by the reviews of Tomatometer-approved professional
critics who meet a set of criteria. These are professional, working movie and TV critics.
Verified Reviews and ratings are made up of users who we can confirm purchased a
ticket to the movie they're reviewing.
I have a Rotten Tomatoes account, why is my review not verified?
Reviews and ratings are verified when we can confirm the user bought a ticket to the
movie.
I did buy a ticket on Fandango, but my review is not verified: why?
The review might not be verified for a couple of reasons. First, if the email address for
your Rotten Tomatoes account does not match your Fandango account email, we will
not be able to confirm your ticket purchase and verify your review. Second, verifiable
reviews may not be possible for the title you are reviewing (e.g. if it is an older movie, a
streaming or TV title).
My ticket purchase was confirmed, but my Verified Review is not showing up on the site. Why can't I see my review?
In an effort to encourage thoughtful discussion, we require reviews to be a minimum of
20 characters in length to be published. Please also keep in mind that reviews may take
some time to be published and are subject to our
Code of Conduct.
If you continue having trouble, please contact customer service.
CERTIFIED FRESH & VERIFIED HOT
How does a movie or TV show qualify for Certified Fresh or Verified Hot status?
For information on Certified Fresh and Verified Hot status, click
HERE.
What is the difference between a Certified Fresh or Verified Hot wide release
and a Certified Fresh or Verified Hot limited release?
Because films in limited release open in far fewer theaters than films in wide release,
the threshold to achieve Certified Fresh or Verified Hot status is lower.
For more information on what qualifies a film for Certified Fresh or Verified Hot status,
click HERE.
Why does it take longer for some movies to go Certified Fresh or Verified Hot?
If the film is scheduled to expand from a limited to a wide release, we would apply
the Certified Fresh or Verified Hot prerequisites
for wide-release films to it and wait for the expansion to assess whether
or not it qualifies.
CURATION
What is the curation process?
Curation is the process of adding reviews to our system. The majority of reviews on
Rotten Tomatoes are added by a team of curators who check our Tomatometer-approved
sources on a daily basis for new review articles, videos, and podcasts. Every review is
analyzed thoroughly so the curator can determine if it should be marked as Fresh or Rotten.
Next, the curator looks for a pull-quote that summarizes the review and best demonstrates
its positive or negative opinion. Lastly, they include the original rating given by the
critic, when available. Other reviews - the ones that don't go through our curation process
- are added by the critics or outlets that published them, and they decide their own quotes
and Fresh/Rotten designations.
How are reviews submitted?
Reviews are added in two ways: either through curation or by self-submitting Tomatometer-
approved critics, who add their reviews themselves. Only reviews from approved critics
and sources are included on the Tomatometer.
What is the difference between a self-submitted review and a curated review?
The majority of Tomatometer-approved reviews are collected by our curation team, who also
mark a review Fresh or Rotten and select a representative pull-quote. Self-submitters are
critics who add their own reviews, determine Fresh/Rotten status themselves, and select
corresponding pull-quotes.
Individually approved critics can choose to be self-submitters or have our curation team
collect reviews on their behalf, while approved publications have the option to nominate
one critic/editor to submit reviews for their entire roster.
Do you ever reach out to a reviewer to get clarification on a review?
Yes. If the curation team is unable to reach a consensus on a review, we reach out to the
reviewer and ask them to make the call.
How do you determine whether a review with no star rating is Fresh or Rotten?
When a review does not have a star rating or letter grade, the Rotten Tomatoes curator adding the
review will assess whether it is Fresh or Rotten. If the curator is unable to do so, they
will consult the curation team for independent analysis and attempt to come to a consensus.
If the team is unable to reach a consensus on the review, they will reach out directly to the
critic for the final word.
How do I submit a movie title to Rotten Tomatoes?
Before submitting a movie title to us, please do the following:
Make sure we don't already have the title in our database by searching for
it in the search field at the top of our site.
If you'd like to make a simple edit to an existing page, submit a
data request to us
with the following: a link where information about the movie is listed, or provide
basic details including the title, release year, and name of the director(s).
If you cannot find the title you're looking for, submit a new page request
via this form
and provide	as much information as possible.
Please note that page creation is at the discretion of Rotten Tomatoes staff
and may depend on additional criteria, as well as team resources.
Not all requests may be fulfilled
Your movie/actor information is wrong!
Thanks for catching that. We work hard to make sure all of our movie and actor
information is correct, but sometimes this is not the case, due to studio changes,
data import errors, etc. We also list wide release dates, which may look wrong to
users who live in areas with previews and limited release showings.
If you do find inaccurate data, please tell us
HERE
and we will check the data against our sources and contact the publicist or distributor
if necessary.
USER ACCOUNTS
Can I merge my Fandango and Rotten Tomatoes accounts?
No, Fandango and Rotten Tomatoes accounts cannot be merged.
Why can't I login via Facebook?
Facebook login is no longer supported on Rotten Tomatoes. If you previously used Facebook
to login on the Rotten Tomatoes website and you have two login options:
Option 1: Use the email address associated with your Facebook account to
create a Rotten Tomatoes profile, and we will transfer your account history.
Option 2: If your Facebook account is a Gmail address, you can also use the
Gmail login feature to create a Rotten Tomatoes profile, and we will transfer
your account history.
If your Facebook email address is different from your Rotten Tomatoes account email, OR
you have disabled email sharing at the time of account creation in your Facebook privacy
settings, your data may be lost. Contact
customer
service with your Facebook ID for further assistance.
Why can't I change my account username?
If you are logged in through Rotten Tomatoes, you can change your account username by
scrolling over your name in the top right corner of any RT page and clicking the
“Account” link. That will take you to the Account Settings page, where you will see
the option to change your Profile Display Name.
Why can't I change my account profile image?
Currently, if you are logged in to a Rotten Tomatoes account using your email, there is
no way to change your profile image.
Why do I need to confirm my account?
We ask our users confirm their accounts as a security precaution and to maintain the
authenticity of the Popcornmeter.
How do I cancel a profile and remove my account?How do I cancel a profile and remove my account?
If you want to cancel a Rotten Tomatoes account, please tell us
HERE.
I have a question regarding my Flixster Video Ultraviolet account.
Flixster video is no longer in service and neither is UltraViolet.
ROTTEN TOMATOES APP
What is the Rotten Tomatoes app?
The Rotten Tomatoes app is your go-to guide for discovering what to watch next across movies and TV.
The app features everything you know and love, including thousands of movies
and TV discovery pages, Tomatometer and Popcornmeter scores, critic and
audience reviews, celebrity interviews, trailers, entertainment news, and more, all
wrapped into an intuitive, mobile-friendly format. It also creates a space for you to
curate personal watchlists, leave ratings and reviews, and share your favorites,
while following other trusted voices on your social feed
Do I need to create a Rotten Tomatoes user account to access the app?
Yes.
How do I sign up for an account?
Once you download the app, you can sign up for an account using an email address.
How is the app different from RottenTomatoes.com?
On the app, you can:
Personalize your experience with a custom avatar and social handle
Create and share lists of your favorite movies and TV shows
Follow users, critics, and publications
Discover content through featured and following feeds
React with Tomojis
Get insider tips from aRTi, Rotten Tomatoes' official AI assistant
Is the app available for both iOS and Android?
The app is currently available for iOS, with Android coming soon.
Where can I download the Rotten Tomatoes app?
Simply search for “Rotten Tomatoes” in the
App Store (iOS).
Is the App free?
Yes, the app is completely free to download and use.
Is the Rotten Tomatoes app available internationally?
Currently, the app is only available in the United States and is not yet accessible worldwide.
Do I need an internet connection to use the app?
Yes, the app requires an internet connection
aRTi
What is aRTi?
aRTi is Rotten Tomatoes' official AI assistant and will serve as the ultimate trusted
guide to discover what to watch and where to watch it, providing the best
recommendations for everything related to movies and TV.
How was aRTi created?
aRTi was created from the extensive site data available from Rotten Tomatoes,
leveraging the world famous Tomatometer and Popcornmeter scores, critic and
audience reviews, RT's editorial features and guides to create recommendations
for users.
Is aRTi the ultimate critic?
No, aRTi is the ultimate recommendation resource and does not replace any of the
key features on Rotten Tomatoes. aRTi leverages scores, reviews, and RT editorial
guides to help you find what to watch and where to watch it. aRTi can also share
fun entertainment facts and suggest pages and official accounts you may want to
follow.
What does aRTi stand for?
It's a fun spin on an AI version of Rotten Tomatoes.
Is aRTi compatible with all systems?
aRTi is currently available on the Rotten Tomatoes app, with desktop/mobile web
coming soon.
Do I need an RT account to use aRTi?
Yes, you do need to create a Rotten Tomatoes user account and have the app installed on your device.
Can aRTi understand different languages?
While it works best in English, aRTi can understand and respond in different languages.
Is aRTi available outside of the United States?
aRTi is currently only available in the United States.
Can I still use search as I always have?
Yes.
How can I provide feedback?
Feedback can be submitted to our customer service team
HERE.
Help
About Rotten Tomatoes
Critic Submission
Licensing
Advertise With Us
Careers
Join the Newsletter
Get the freshest reviews, news, and more delivered right to your inbox!
Join The Newsletter
Join The Newsletter
Follow Us
Copyright © Fandango. All rights reserved.
Join The Newsletter
Join The Newsletter
Privacy Policy
Terms and Policies
Cookie Settings
California Notice
Ad Choices
Accessibility
V3.1
Privacy Policy
Terms and Policies
Cookie Settings
California Notice
Ad Choices
Accessibility
Copyright © Fandango. A Division of
NBCUniversal.
All rights reserved.
beta