Your Quest headset just got a big upgrade for free - see what it can do now | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Wearables
AR + VR
Your Quest headset just got a big upgrade for free - see what it can do now
Watching movies and TV with your Quest just got way better. Also new: You can make a digital copy of your room.
Written by
Artie Beaty, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 12:08 p.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysMeta has announced three new features for the Quest headset.Horizon TV is a new hub for all your streaming content.Also new is a way to make a digital copy of your room.At this week's Meta Connect 2025 event, we got our expected peek at the company's upcoming smart glasses (three new versions are on the way), details on upgrades to its existing glasses, and a few other surprises.While the spotlight was on devices, we also got a glimpse of Meta's plans for its Quest headsets. The company announced a trio of free features for its VR headsets, two of which are available to all devices and one of which is reserved for the newer Quest and Quest 3S.Also: Meta Connect 2025 live updates: Reactions to Ray-Ban Display, Oakley Vanguard glasses, moreHere's a look at the new features now available on your Quest headset. Horizon TV HubStreaming movies and TV shows with your Quest headset is about to get a little easier, as Meta has announced Horizon TV. This new hub will be the home to multiple popular streaming services like Netflix, Prime Video, ESPN, Peacock, Hulu, and Disney+. It will support Dolby Atmos and Dolby Vision (Vision comes later this year), meaning you'll have high-quality audio and video. Some Universal Studios shows like M3GAN and The Black Phone will even have immersive 3D special effects.Also: I biked with the Meta Oakley Vanguard, and they're easily the best smart glasses for athletesMeta seems to be investing heavily in TV and movies. James Cameron announced earlier this year that his Lightstorm Vision venture had signed a deal with Meta for 3D entertainment "featuring big-name IP," including live sports and concerts, movies, and TV shows. (An exclusive 3D clip of Avatar: Fire and Ash is available now, Meta says.)Horizon StudioAlso on the way is Meta Horizon Studio, a generative AI editor for the Meta Horizon Worlds playground. You can already use Horizon Worlds to create things like textures and audio for your own virtual worlds, but you'll now have an AI assistant to help you. You can use verbal prompts to create worlds like a UFC octagon ring, a home, or an underwater seascape, or to make changes like a new environment or modify an AI-driven NPC.Hyperspace captureUtilizing something called "Gaussian Splatting," a new Hyperspace Capture feature uses the cameras on your headset to take photos of your environment and then turn them into a digital replica you can visit. (It appears that this feature is only for the Meta Quest 3 and Quest 3S.) The process takes just a few minutes, Meta explains. The result is static, and nothing moves. Still, the results are apparently pretty impressive, even better than Apple's spatial photos.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Samsung just quietly teased its Galaxy Glasses - and almost no one noticed
I used the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they offer 2 breakthroughs to take us beyond smartphones
2 Meta Ray-Bans leaks that have me truly excited for Connect (including a new Oakley model)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use