Quantify sum of squared differences in a robust multilinear regression in R - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Quantify sum of squared differences in a robust multilinear regression in R
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
42 times
Part of R Language Collective
2
I would like to obtain estimates of the variance explained by each predictor in multiple regression using robust linear regression (for instance with the R function lmrob from robustbase R package or lmRob from robust R package).
Following https://stats.stackexchange.com/questions/79399/calculate-variance-explained-by-each-predictor-in-multiple-regression-using-r, I was thinking to use the sums of squares ('Sum Sq') obtained from running ANOVA on the regression results. I know that I can run ANOVA on a lmrob object however it does not return the 'Sum Sq' column. Note also it is not possible to run ANOVA on one single linear lmrob model.
Do you know what I could do to obtain the sums of squares or more generally the partial $R^2$ for each predictor from a lmrob object?
Here it is a reproducible example where I compare linear regression with robust linear regression. As you can see, applying the anova function on the robust linear regression output does not generate sum of squared differences (Sum Sq column) for each of the regressors.
require(robustbase)
require(car)
data(coleman)
full_model_lmrob <- lmrob(Y ~ ., data=coleman)
res_anova_III_lmrob = Anova(full_model_lmrob,type = 'III')
res_anova_II_lmrob = Anova(full_model_lmrob,type = 'II')
full_model_lm <- lm(Y ~ ., data=coleman)
res_anova_III_lm = Anova(full_model_lm,type = 'III')
res_anova_II_lm = Anova(full_model_lm,type = 'II')
res_anova_I_lm = anova(full_model_lm)
rlinear-regressionvariancenlsrobust
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 16 hours ago
CafféSospesoCafféSospeso
asked 16 hours ago
CafféSospesoCafféSospeso
1,25833 gold badges1414 silver badges3333 bronze badges
3
What are you trying to achieve? Measure the "importance" of each variable? Beware that "proportion of variance explained" depends on the order of variables added. For possible workarounds, see the docs of the package relaimpo. If the proportion of contribution per predictor is of interest, why don't you use Shapley values (R package shapR)?
cdalitz
–
cdalitz
2025-09-25 13:15:23 +00:00
Commented
15 hours ago
1
In principle, the anova of type III solve the problem of the order of the variables added. And yes, I want to measure the relative importance of each regressor and the residuals.
CafféSospeso
–
CafféSospeso
2025-09-25 13:23:41 +00:00
Commented
15 hours ago
2
The multiple type III anovas do not yield a "proportion", though, because all "proportions" do not add to one. See this paper for possible workarounds: doi.org/10.18637/jss.v017.i01. This paper was written before the proposal of SHAP values, which have meanwhile become the standard way to assess variable importance, because they work for all types of regression methods, not only linear models.
cdalitz
–
cdalitz
2025-09-25 13:47:13 +00:00
Commented
15 hours ago
Add a comment
|
Related questions
0
linear regression using type 2 sum of squares, how to extract slope, intercept, r2 from model output?
3
Sum of squared residuals for sklearn.linear_model.LinearRegression
1
MATLAB fitlm: OLS vs Robust regression
Related questions
0
linear regression using type 2 sum of squares, how to extract slope, intercept, r2 from model output?
3
Sum of squared residuals for sklearn.linear_model.LinearRegression
1
MATLAB fitlm: OLS vs Robust regression
0
How to calculate fitted values for robust regression models
4
Simulating multiple regression data with fixed R2: How to incorporate correlated variables?
5
Which function/package for robust linear regression works with glmulti (i.e., behaves like glm)?
1
Orthogonal Linear Regression (total least squares) fit, get RMSE and R-squared in R
Load 4 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
rlinear-regressionvariancenlsrobust
See similar questions with these tags.
R Language
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
The history and future of software development (part 1)
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
What happens when the jewels run out?
Are there any alternatives to electricity that work/behave in a similar way?
What exactly makes something a "phased-out creature"
Best solution to prevent loop between tables for granular relations
What is an aggravating factor and why is kinship considered one?
Data lost/Corrupted on iCloud
Can a state execute an ICC arrest warrant in international waters?
How to convert square wave to sine wave
how would you formalise in first order logic the sentence "I am a liar"?
What happened to all of the energy created at the Big Bang when the matter and antimatter annihilated each other?
Comparing a combination of data from two columns to another combination from other two columns
How to use ≥ 16 usbip ports from one host controller on Debian?
How to delete a file with a very long (and very strange) filename in Windows?
Removing temporary LaTeX files
Are there any problems with mastering my own music?
rkhunter Updates -- "no updates" for several months now
Does a distant observer see the light for a longer duration due to the effect of time dilation?
I'm having a hard time intuiting throttle position to engine rpm consistency between gears -- why do cars behave in this observed way?
At high pressures, is aromaticity affected?
What license to use when extending a pre-existing library?
Are there injections that combine 80 different vaccines?
3 variables cyclic rearrangement inequality.
Another Slitherlink Next Step
Is there a specific term to describe someone who is religious but does not necessarily believe everything that their religion teaches, and uses logic?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-r
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.25.34480