Live and work by lists? I found two genius apps that make them even easier to create | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Work Life
Productivity
Live and work by lists? I found two genius apps that make them even easier to create
If you often need to add items to various lists, I found two apps - for MacOS and Windows - that will simplify your daily life.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. PT
D3Damon/E+ via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysPopClip and SnipDo expand what copy/paste can do.Both apps allow you to append text directly to the app.PopClip is only available for MacOS and SnipDo for Windows.How often do you find yourself copying text from a website, document, or email that you want to add to a list app? That happens quite a bit to me. Something I read might inspire an idea for a book, and I want to make sure I add it to a list before I forget it. That happens so often that I find it becomes a chore to copy the text, open the list app, find the list I want, and then paste the text.Also: 10 open-source apps I recommend every Windows user try - for freeWhen you're very busy, you need a more efficient solution for this simple task.That's why I went searching for apps to serve this purpose. I found two -- one for MacOS and one for Windows,  and both are more efficient than using a standard clipboard. (I'm still on the hunt for an app that supports Linux),
Let me introduce you to those apps.PopClip for MacOSPopClip is for MacOS, and it's fantastic -- but it's not free. You can install it and enjoy a free trial, but after that trial expires, you'll have to pony up for a license. The good news is that a lifetime license costs only $25.PopClip is like a clipboard manager on steroids. Thanks to a robust extension library, you can integrate PopClip with the likes of Notes, Craft, Evernote, Logseq, Notion, Obsidian, OneNote, and many more. Also: 5 ways to run Windows apps on MacOS - and 2 are freeI added the Notion extension to PopClip. (It's as simple as heading to the extension library, clicking on the Notion entry, double-clicking the downloaded file, and walking through the simple setup process.) Make sure you select the correct Space and Page (they're case sensitive); otherwise, PopClip won't know where to store the copied text. Once you've done that, PopClip is integrated with Notion and can add text you've highlighted to whatever notes you've configured.
PopClip makes it incredibly easy to add selected text to a note in an app. Screenshot byJack Wallen/ZDNETTo add text to Notion with PopClip, highlight the text you want and -- from the pop-up -- click the Notion icon. You don't have to do anything else because PopClip handles it all for you.
My selected text has been added to a Notion note. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETOther than the slightly tricky setup of your chosen extension (each extension has its own setup process), PopClip is one of the best solutions for this task.SnipDo for WindowsSnipDo for Windows isn't quite as flexible as PopClip, but it can help make your copy/paste life a bit easier. With PopClip, you select the text you want and then click the icon for which you want to append the text.The problem with SnipDo is that it doesn't have nearly the integrations that PopClip has, and when you do click an action icon, it opens the app (with the selected text automatically added), as opposed to PopClip, which simply appends the selected text to the desired app or service. Also: Hate Windows 11's vibe? Make it look more like Linux or MacOS - here's howThe most useful extensions in SnipDo are Calendar (to add events to your Calendar), Notepad (to create a new note in the Notepad app), Print (to print the selected text), Send Email (to create a new email with your selected text in the body), Sticky Notes (to create a new Sticky Note, requires the Sticky Note app), Todoist (to add new tasks to the Todoist app), and Trello (to add a new Trello card).Note that most app integrations require a Pro account, which gives you unlimited extensions, dark/light themes, the ability to create your own custom extension, and backup/restore. The Pro license is $4.99/year. If you're using an extension for an app, you will also have to log into that app through SnipDo (which you also have to do with PopClip).After you've installed SnipDo, go to the Load Extensions page, locate the extension you want to add, and click Install.
While SnipDo doesn't offer as many integrations as PopClip does, there are still plenty to be found. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETOnce the extension is installed, you'll be able to log in or configure it when you first paste text into the app or service.SnipDo is used in the same way as PopClip: Highlight the text you want to paste, then click the action button associated with the app or service you want to house the text.
You can access the SnipDo action menu as soon as you highlight text. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETIt's that simple.Both of these apps do a good job of simplifying your daily life. PopClip is, by far, the better option. However, since it only works on MacOS, if you're a Windows user, you'll have to go with the lesser app.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
10 open-source apps I recommend every Windows user try - for free
Have a lot of stuff to track? My 5 favorite home inventory apps can help
My new favorite note-taking app for MacOS and Linux checks this crucial box - and it's free
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use