Japanese city implements two-hour daily recreational smartphone usage limit — ordinance comes into effect from October 1, no enforcement or penalties proposed | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Handheld Gaming
Nintendo faces government challenge over Switch 2 nuke powers
Social Media
Korean Starbucks bans desktop PCs, printers, and office partitions
Power Supplies
Tokyo’s Tech shopper paradise Akihabara Electric Town was just a 'Town' on Friday, due to first power outage in 30 years
Artificial Intelligence
Chinese social media firms comply with strict AI labelling law
Cyber Security
Czechia warns that DeepSeek can share all user information with the Chinese government
Nintendo
Nintendo president apologizes for Switch 2 shortage
Nintendo
Nintendo Switch 2 thermal limits mean you need air conditioning if you want to play in a hot climate
Handheld Gaming
Retro reviewer could face up to three years in jail over copyright
Nintendo
Popular tech content creator hit with Switch 2 ban over game bought on eBay
Handheld Gaming
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
PC Gaming
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
Tech Industry
U.S. imposes 25% tariffs on all products from Japan and South Korea
Networking
Is Wi-Fi bad for the environment? Eye-catching London ad suggests Wi-Fi is ‘damaging the climate’
Semiconductors
TSMC's second Japanese fab reportedly delayed, mass production pushed to 2029
Cyber Security
Bizarre cyberattack blamed on Russia and China-linked hackers permanently breaks dozens of speed cameras in the Netherlands
Phones
Japanese city implements two-hour daily recreational smartphone usage limit — ordinance comes into effect from October 1, no enforcement or penalties proposed
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
22 September 2025
The two-hour limit applies to usage outside work and study purposes.
Comments (8)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Apple)
A draft ordinance that proposes a limit of two hours of smartphone use, outside of work or study purposes, was voted on in Toyoaki City, Aichi Prefecture, Japan, today. The ordinance passed with 12 out of 19 council members voting in favor. All local citizens should follow the new rule starting from October 1. However, “there is no enforcement or penalty in the ordinance,” reports Japan’s NHK (machine translation).We reported on this upcoming vote about a month ago. The news raised our interest, as Toyoaki City council would be among the first to attempt to regulate smartphone usage to reap health benefits for the local population. Though the ordinance will cover all citizens of Toyoaki, there is certainly a sense that this is a ‘tool’ with which to coerce school children into reducing their free time screen time.“Toyoaki City says that smartphones are essential for daily life, but prolonged use may affect the home environment, such as lack of sleep, and may hinder the healthy growth of children,” reports NHK. Children of school age should follow additional advice to put down their devices by 9 pm if at elementary school or younger, and by 10 pm if a junior high school student or above.
You may like
Nintendo faces government challenge over Switch 2 nuke powers
Korean Starbucks bans desktop PCs, printers, and office partitions
Tokyo’s Tech shopper paradise Akihabara Electric Town was just a 'Town' on Friday, due to first power outage in 30 years
Arguments for and against the ordinanceAs we noted in the intro, the ordinance didn’t pass without some dissent. Naysayers on the council put forward several arguments against the proposed two-hour free time rule. One said that smartphone usage should be "determined in the context of family discipline." Another indicated that some children find important refuge from school and home life on their smartphones.However, the majority who voted to pass the ordinance today insisted that it will help prevent device addiction. Moreover, citizens should think of it as “a gentle proposal for citizens to reconsider their lives and child-rearing,” and that is its value. Indeed, it is worth repeating, the new rule is non-binding and without penalty – and thus much more like official guidance or advice.In a speech to the press, Mayor Toyoaki echoed this advisory sentiment, underlining that the two hours “is just a guideline.” He mused that it would be useful if citizens checked themselves for health and sleep benefits after making changes to their leisure time smartphone habits.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (8)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
Nintendo faces government challenge over Switch 2 nuke powers
Korean Starbucks bans desktop PCs, printers, and office partitions
Tokyo’s Tech shopper paradise Akihabara Electric Town was just a 'Town' on Friday, due to first power outage in 30 years
Chinese social media firms comply with strict AI labelling law
Czechia warns that DeepSeek can share all user information with the Chinese government
Nintendo president apologizes for Switch 2 shortage
Latest in Phones
Japanese city pushes two-hour daily smartphone limit to promote healthier sleep for its citizens, particularly school-age children
Giving a new phone this holiday season? Don’t forget to add a case with Ostand from Torras
iPhone 16 battery needs a good zapping to debond the adhesive
Apple's A18 and A18 Pro processors powers the iPhone 16 and 16 Pro — and Apple Intelligence
Passenger caught using electric wheelchair to smuggle more than 100 mobile phones into China
First PC emulator arrives on iOS App Store, delivers i486 or PowerPC fun on your Apple iDevice
Latest in News
China's latest GPU arrives with claims of CUDA compatibility and RT support
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
8 Comments
Comment from the forums
DS426
If a law isn't enforceable, is it a law? I'll give you a hint: it rhymes with flow.
How about we do meaningful things instead and provide incentives for doing what we consider good behavior and disincentives for doing bad behavior?
Reply
Notton
This law had overwhelming negative feedback from the locals, if you were wondering.
Even the mayor of the city didn't realize he used his phone for 4hrs a day until a TV news crew pointed it out for him.
Reply
Heat_Fan89
https://external-content.duckduckgo.com/iu/?u=https%3A%2F%2Fthumbs.dreamstime.com%2Fb%2Fthree-monkeys-sitting-next-to-each-other-looking-smartphones-funny-illustration-technological-progress-three-monkeys-323507681.jpg&f=1&nofb=1&ipt=fafd80ebb832be48c4c2999c1523c273de7ca37c6b95406b5a3c3e6f8c19d158
Reply
Alvar "Miles" Udell
While I applaud the intent of the law, and it's something everyone should strive to do, especially when it comes to night time screen use, there's a lot more grey area than clear cut when it comes to recreational screen time. No screens after 10PM for adults and 9PM for kids is clear cut, but between time on public transport, lunch break, and time spent exercising with a phone for videos that could easily exceed 2 hours per day, and that's not even factoring in time you would be at home looking up the day's news, sports scores, and other interests, and of course playing a game or two, and socializing with friends.
Reply
derekullo
So tourists are back to using real maps instead of Google Maps?
Imagine going to Japan with your brand new smart phone able to translate from Japanese to English in real time only to have your data plan cut off after 2 hours!
Reply
LimeWedgeLoej
If the town wants to make suggestions, make a suggestion page. If the town wants to make the people do this, make it a law. That being said without making each resident download a location and usage tracking app it would be unenforceable. I understand wanting to get people to use less smart phones but what is the difference between using Facebook on your computer vs smartphone? Streaming videos on your TV vs smartphone? Playing video games on your phone vs game console? If you are neglecting life because of your smart phone then passing a "law" about it won't help. The flip side is a city in Japan has sparked discussion around the world, so they people who passed this will probably say it achieved their goal.
Reply
YeaItsEJ
That's what parenting is for.. smh this world is literally slowly making parents not important.
Reply
JC5000
Hey peasants! Get back to work! LoL, you know they only worked about 250 days a year during feudal ages for the king. Seems modern man has been duped under guise of freedom
Reply
View All 8 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.