I turned my old gaming PC into a TrueNAS server, and here's how it went
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I turned my old gaming PC into a TrueNAS server, and here's how it went
By
Ty Sherback
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
While the PC industry continues to push the boundaries of performance, game developers continue to push the limits of the hardware we have. I love upgrading the components in my system; the process is somewhat cathartic for me, but I'm often left with extra parts I don't have a gaming-related use for. This past week, I decided to put these old parts to use as a TrueNAS server, and it went quite well, besides dealing with the limits of TrueNAS itself.
Revitalizing a dormant rig
It's dusty, but alive!
After upgrading my own rig from a 10th Gen i7 to an AM5 X3D chip, I handed down my old parts to my fiancée. She didn't really need an upgrade, her Skylake i7 and GTX 1070 were still kicking along just fine for the types of games she plays, but it was a good excuse to give her an upgrade regardless. As a result, her old build sat dormant for months. I always intended on turning it into some kind of server box, but it lacked a CPU cooler and a boot drive. Eventually, I ordered the parts I needed to start. For the cooler, I went with the Thermalright Peerless Assassin 120. This is the same cooler I bought for my fiancée's new rig made from my spare parts. It performs wonderfully, is quiet enough, and keeps this project within my budget. For the boot drive, I measured my options carefully. I thought about potentially going with a SATA SSD, and leaving the M.2 slot open for other expansion, since the Z170-E motherboard only has one of them. I ended up going with a 1 TB M.2 Samsung 990 Pro because it was on sale, not for this machine, but for my personal rig—I did a cheeky swap with my 500 GB 970 EVO drive after cloning it. Additionally, I picked up some short Amazon Basics CAT 6 Ethernet patch cords, and an inexpensive TP-Link Gigabit managed switch, just so I have enough ports to get things up and running.
Getting this thing to boot was a challenge. After giving the thing a little dusting, mounting the cooler, and throwing in the drive, I couldn't get any kind of POST, with the system continually hanging on a solid red "BOOT_DEVICE" light. I tried different drives, different keyboards in case my inputs weren't being recognized for some reason, resetting the CMOS, and reseating the CPU. Any number of those things could've been the underlying issue, but it was only after I threw up a Hail Mary of installing a dedicated GPU that I managed to get any kind of display output, and a successful POST. The system is now booted, and works fine with the iGPU. I'll eventually throw in an old dGPU just to have, but the integrated graphics will be fine just for setup.
Installing TrueNAS
Incredibly simple
Flashing and installing TrueNAS onto the system was just as simple as any other operating system. A simple, no-frills menu where you set a root password, format the drive you want to boot off of, and away you go. After booting, I navigated the menus to set up my network configuration, give it an IP address, and I could easily access the TrueNAS web panel from my workstation.
TrueNAS is great, just not for this application
I currently can't make much use of it
Before installing TrueNAS on my old gaming rig, I wasn't super familiar with it. I had some limited experience with it in an environment where it was already deployed, so getting things setup from scratch was a new experience for me. I found out pretty quickly that it wouldn't be great for this specific type of deployment. Since I only had one drive, it was being used as the boot pool, and TrueNAS dedicates the entirety of the drive for this purpose. It's not possible to shrink it after the fact, and while it is technically possible to shoehorn it into a partition during the installation, it's not recommended. The reason why it's designed this way is well explained in a forum post by a member of TrueNAS' staff. This is certainly something that could've been avoided had I read the requirements for TrueNAS, but regardless, the result is a box I can't actually install anything on without adding more drives, which is something I'm not super interested in doing at this time. I'll eventually add drives to this system and turn it into a more dedicated NAS box, but for now, a different solution is needed. Instead of TrueNAS, to get this box off the ground, I'll probably install Proxmox or a lightweight Linux distro.
Older processors still have a ton of life in them
What was once a gaming powerhouse less than a decade ago can become a serviceable home server, given the right configuration and operating system. Depending on the services you want to run, pretty much anything can function as a home server. In the future, I'll definitely be augmenting this rig with more memory, storage, and a dedicated GPU for transcoding.
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Sloth
Sloth
Sloth
#HR104449
Member since 2025-04-11
0
Threads
9
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Sooo cooo
2025-09-15 11:27:41
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
5 cheap enterprise parts that make sense for your home lab
3 days ago
6 real-life lessons I learned after moving my photo library to my NAS
3 days ago
This is the one PC component you shouldn't cheap out on (and it's not the CPU)
3 days ago
This free browser-based Markdown editor replaced Windows Notepad for me
Today's best deals
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
4 hours ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
10 hours ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
22 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
3 reasons to pick Cronos: The New Dawn over Hell is Us this month, and 3 things the latter does better
I use these Docker containers to manage my entire business
I tried Firecracker microVMs for self-hosted services, and it's surprisingly powerful
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.