We Tested Our Marriage by Sleeping on Avocado’s Luxury Organic Mattress for 30 Nights
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Wellness Sleep
We Tested Our Marriage by Sleeping on Avocado’s Luxury Organic Mattress for 30 Nights
My partner and I are looking for a bed that accommodates our drastically different sleep preferences. Could Avocado be “the one” or will we end up in a sleep divorce?
Aly Lopez Former Writer I Aly Lopez was a writer on the sleep and wellness team at CNET. She tested, researched and reviewed sleep and health-related products, technology and trends. She received her bachelor's degree in sociology from Central College and is a certified sleep science coach from the Spencer Institute. Aly is passionate about helping others improve their lives by writing about ways to get better sleep and improve their overall health and wellness.
See full bio
Aly Lopez
Nov. 13, 2024
1:40 a.m. PT 22 min read
Aly Lopez/CNETConsidering our status as experts on CNET's sleep team -- a job that involves researching, testing, and reviewing the best mattresses and sleep-related products -- you'd think my husband, Dillon, and I would be pretty good at sleeping by now. But the truth is that it simply isn't that simple. In fact, Dillon and I have always struggled to get enough rest. So, what happens when two lousy sleepers share a bed that doesn't work for both of them? Sleep divorce -- and permanent under-eye bags that no amount of skin care treatment will fix.We wouldn't be the first pair to have drastically different sleep preferences. Our sleeping positions are different for one, and Dillon is a night owl, while I'm an early bird. He likes the quiet, but I sleep better with white noise in the background. I prefer to sleep in the pitch dark, whereas he won't notice if the lamps are left on all night. With all these differences between us, you might wonder how we make it work. Thankfully, we've found workarounds after experimenting with countless sleep hacks and products. However, we have yet to discover a solution for the most significant disparity in our sleep habits: a mattress that can accommodate our different sleeping positions. Dillon prefers a super soft mattress with plenty of pressure relief as a side sleeper. Spending more time on my stomach, I'm looking for a firmer mattress that will support my spine. And unlike the aforementioned differences, compromising with a mattress is far more complex.Finding a bed we both like is the challenge that led us to start our hunt for the "perfect" mattress. Throughout this series, Dillon and I have been testing mattresses for 30 nights and documenting the entire process until we find one that works for both of us. We use sleep trackers every night to compare our health data and sleep quality on each bed.This month, we slept on the base model of the Avocado Luxury Organic mattress. Before sleeping on the Avocado Luxury Organic, we spent 30 nights sleeping on the luxury firm model of the Saatva Classic mattress. If you want to learn about the Saatva Classic, check out our full written review and YouTube video.Will Avocado help us both get better rest? Or will this month end with one of us camping out on the couch? Keep reading to find out.Video: Sleeping on the Avocado Luxury Organic Mattress for 30 nights Watch us review the Avocado Luxury Organic mattress for 30 nights.Initial thoughts on the Avocado Luxury Organic“Holy moly, this is heavy!” I exclaimed as we began hauling this mattress out of our testing facility. Queen-size mattresses typically weigh somewhere between 90 and 150 pounds. The standard version of the Avocado Luxury Organic that we tested checks in at 154 pounds, so it's on the heavier side. The pillow-top model of this mattress is even heavier, weighing about 200 pounds, which is worth noting if you move frequently or have to carry your mattress quite a ways. Lugging this bed up to our sixth-floor apartment was a challenge, even with the help of our building's elevator. Luckily, we have a few tricks up our sheets to make the mattress-moving process less cumbersome, such as using a blanket to slide this dense bed along the flat-surfaced portions of our trek.
We used a moving blanket to slide the heavy mattress down our long apartment hallway. Aly Lopez/CNETOnce the mattress was situated in the bedroom, we began testing it to inform our initial thoughts. We evaluated characteristics like feel, firmness, temperature, edge support and motion isolation. Right away, Dillon and I commented back and forth about how high-end and luxurious it looked. We loved the design and could tell it was crafted with quality natural materials. I was actually sad when it was time to put sheets and bedding on it because it looked so pretty “au naturel.” We could also tell that its materials are organic, not just because of how it looks and feels but because of its subtle earthy, natural smell.
We (along with our dog Charlie and cat Jess) loved the look and feel of the Avocado Luxury Organic mattress. Dillon Lopez/CNETFirmnessWe slept on the base model, which Avocado ranks a 6 out of 10 on the firmness scale and claims it's best for back and stomach sleepers. We took turns rolling around and testing the different sleeping positions to see if that would hold true. After our initial testing, we both agreed that it felt slightly softer than our previous bed, which Dillon was happy about. He thought the Avocado Luxury Organic was closer to a medium-firm and would still be too firm for him to sleep comfortably on his side. On the other hand, I enjoyed its cushioning pressure relief while on my side and felt it was still firm enough to support my spine while lying on my stomach and back. FeelThe Avocado Luxury Organic is responsive and bounces back quickly, which Dillon and I prefer because we both move around and switch positions frequently throughout the night and that’s a lot easier to do on a responsive mattress. The latex foam feel of this bed is essentially the opposite of that slow, sinking quality you get with denser memory foam beds.
Dillon felt the mattress would be a little too firm for him to sleep on his side. Aly Lopez/CNETTemperatureWe agreed that the Avocado Luxury Organic did not feel cool to the touch but was more temperature-neutral, likely because of its organic cotton and wool cover. As someone who sleeps hot, I was concerned about this. Dillon also felt this might pose an issue but wasn't as worried since he tends to sleep a little cooler than I do.Edge supportIn the previous trial of this series on the Saatva Classic, our bed was pushed up against a wall due to the small size of our bedroom. Dillon had the inner side, which meant he slept against the wall and didn't have to consider the bed's edge support performance. We've since moved, and our bed is now in the middle of the room, meaning solid edge support is a crucial feature for both of us again.Thanks to our cat, Jess, who sleeps on my head and so rudely (albeit adorably) hijacks my pillow every night, I tend to get pushed to the edge and find myself hanging on for dear life (sans pillow). Fortunately, Avocado Luxury Organic's edge support is pretty solid. Its perimeter didn't seem quite as reinforced as the Saatva Classic, but it still showed minimal sagging on the side, and I didn't think I'd fall off while lying directly on the edge.
Jess tests the edge support while Charlie tests its support as a back sleeper. Both were pleased with the results. Aly Lopez/CNETMotion isolationWe observed its motion-isolating abilities by lying on the bed while the other person rolled and moved around erratically. We also tested it by placing a glass of water on the edge of the bed and bouncing around to see if it would fall over. I thought it had pretty good motion isolation, while Dillon was not convinced. Motion isolation is a critical factor for us (mostly me), not just because Jess constantly jumps on and off but because Dillon and I often go to bed and wake up at different times, and we both toss and turn throughout the night. A mattress that absorbs motion well enough to keep the other person from jostling around and waking up is key.
Testing the motion isolation with a glass of water on the edge and rolling around the bed. Dillon Lopez/CNETDesign and constructionAs I mentioned earlier, we were immediately impressed by Avocado’s use of high-quality and organic materials in this mattress. The base model (the one we tested) is 13.25 inches tall; slightly higher than your average mattress. Avocado's plush version of this mattress is 17 inches tall, and the ultra-plush version stands an impressive 19 inches tall.Although it’s not cool to the touch, I loved the cover. Crafted with certified organic cotton and wool, it's super soft and makes it feel like you're floating on a cloud while lying on this bed. It's naturally hypoallergenic, which I prefer since we sleep with our pets (and their dander and fur).This thick hybrid mattress has 17 layers of various materials, including over 2,400 individually wrapped coils in seven support zones. While lying on our backs and stomachs, we could tell its hefty construction would support us and help keep our spines neutrally aligned. Still, we couldn't necessarily distinguish the seven separate ergonomic support zones.
The mattress has reinforced handles on the ends for rotating it (not for transporting it). Aly Lopez/CNETOur sleep quality goalsDillon aims to get between 7 and 8 hours of sleep per night, and I'd prefer to get at least 8 hours, even up to 9; wishful thinking for both of us. Dillon and I are light sleepers who wake up constantly, often staying up for an hour or two throughout the night. We rarely wake up less than 2 or 3 times per night, and one of us will usually move to the couch for a change of scenery when we are uncomfortable and can't go back to sleep. All that to say, we both wish to spend less than 30 minutes awake each night.Factors other than our mattress affect our sleep quality, whether that be pets, diet, exercise, temperature or stress. We have worked hard to diminish the effects of these over the years and feel like we have a decent handle on them (aside from Jess). Now, the hope is to find a mattress so comfortable that neither of us wants to get up and leave it in the middle of the night. Our thoughts halfway through the trialFirmnessOnce we began sleeping on the Avocado Luxury Organic, Dillon quickly confirmed what he initially thought: though it was comfortable, the bed was too firm for his liking as a side sleeper. Starting the very first night, he would try to sleep on his stomach but end up waking up on his back -- which would then cause him to snore -- because he struggled to get comfortable while lying on his side. Granted, this bed is softer than our previous mattress, and he never woke up feeling sore or with arms that had fallen asleep as he had on the luxury firm model of the Saatva Classic. Like Dillon, I never woke up feeling sore on the Avocado Luxury Organic, even after sleeping on my side. I was (at first) sleeping better than I had on the Saatva Classic.Motion isolationGoing into this trial, I honestly thought the motion isolation would be worse due to its responsive and bouncy feel, but it was manageable. I usually noticed when Jess jumped on and off or when Dillon switched positions, but it wasn't too jarring or disruptive. Dillon still felt that too much motion transfer was occurring, but the movement wasn't overly bothersome for him either.Edge supportThanks to its reinforced steel perimeter, I never felt like I would fly off when I inevitably got pushed to the edge of the bed. With our new bedroom layout, Dillon was excited about the opportunity to test the edge support for the first time, and it didn't disappoint.
Dillon was extremely impressed by the bed’s edge support. Aly Lopez/CNETTemperatureAfter sleeping on the Avocado Luxury Organic for about a week, we both mentioned feeling hot at night. I would occasionally wake up from overheating, ripping the covers off in a sweaty panic. We kept the temperature in our bedroom cool and slept with a light comforter (the same bedding we had on our previous mattress). This led us to believe we were sleeping hotter partly because of the cotton and wool materials in the mattress cover. Dillon wasn't getting quite as hot as I was, but he agreed that we'd probably sleep better on a bed with cooling technology.Sleep qualityWhile Dillon only got 3 hours of sleep on the Avocado Luxury Organic the first night, he surpassed his goal on the second night by clocking 8 hours and 5 minutes of sleep. That goal-surpassing didn't last long; he only had one other night throughout the entire trial of getting over 8 hours of sleep. According to our sleep trackers, we were generally still spending most of the night in core/light sleep and not getting as much deep or REM sleep as our bodies needed. I was getting more sleep on the Avocado Luxury Organic than on Saatva, but I noticed after about a week that my average awake time was slightly higher. I had trouble getting comfortable enough to fall back asleep when I woke up in the middle of the night.Our thoughts at the end of the trialAvocado uses needle-tufting by hand, a neat technique dating back to the 17th century. Without using solvent or adhesives, the layers of the mattress are pulled together and secured with ribbons, topping the mattress with soft rosettes. While I appreciate the sentiment behind this method, I noticed that I could feel the rosettes underneath the sheets at first. It took some getting used to, but I didn't feel them as much toward the end of the trial. When testing the mattress without sheets or washing our bedding, our cat Jess loved to play with these rosettes and tried ripping them off with the sharp claws on her little mittens. Although it was cute to see, I'd recommend keeping your pets (namely curious cats) out of the room when the bed is without sheets.
Our cat Jess thought the tufts on the mattress were new toys. Aly Lopez/CNETFirmnessAfter testing the mattress for about two weeks, I started to notice that it wasn't quite as supportive as the Saatva Classic when sleeping on my stomach, but bear in mind that the luxury firm model of the Saatva Classic we tested is firmer. Rather than spending most of the night on my stomach, I gravitated more toward my side and back because of this. I then noticed that whenever I'd wake up in the middle of the night, it was when I was on my side, at which point I didn't feel like it was pressure-relieving enough.By week three of the trial, Dillon was still actively trying to adapt to sleeping on the mattress as a stomach sleeper since he still felt it was too firm for his side, but his body couldn't seem to adapt as much as he wanted it to. He fell asleep faster than usual but was not sleeping longer or better than on our previous bed.
Dillon tried to adapt to sleeping on his stomach since it was too firm for his side (but failed). Aly Lopez/CNETSleep qualityBy the end of the trial, Dillon averaged around 5-6 hours of sleep per night, and I averaged around 6-7 hours. During the second half of the trial, my awake time had gone down significantly. There were five nights in a row when I was awake for less than 10 minutes, which I'm not sure I had ever experienced before. This could have been because I was overly tired, and my body was trying to make up for that lack of sleep.I also noticed having meager amounts of deep sleep during the third and fourth weeks, averaging around 30 to 40 minutes per night. According to the CDC, adults should generally spend about 1.5-2 hours in the deep sleep phase, or about 25% of the night.Scoring our personal preferencesAt CNET, our sleep experts use an objective, standardized rating system to score mattresses. For the purpose of this specific series, Dillon and I created a customized subjective ranking system to rate the primary features and characteristics we seek in a mattress. As the most important qualities to us, firmness and feel were each out of 20 points, the others out of 10 for a total score of 100. We scored these factors on a preferential level, meaning what we liked or didn’t like personally. The scale looked like this:
We created a custom point system to give the mattress an overall rating out of 100 at the end of the trial. Cole Kan/CNETScoring the Avocado Luxury Organic After finishing the 30-night trial, we gave each factor a final score with a brief explanation. Here is a breakdown of the results:Dillon's scoring breakdownFirmness: 8/20The base model of the Avocado Luxury Organic is rated around a 6 out of 10. It feels firmer than that. As a side sleeper, I’d like a softer mattress that lands around a 4 or 5 out of 10 or a medium-soft to medium. In the end, I just couldn’t adapt to this firmness level.Feel: 14/20This bed has a ton of layers that combine to give it a responsive latex foam feel, which I like. It's an accommodating feel that I prefer over denser memory foam. I would still prefer a softer and plusher foam feel with more pressure relief that I can sink a little further into.Motion isolation: 4/10The motion isolation was pretty much what I expected it to be: not great, although it wasn't horrible. Edge support: 9/10I was impressed by the edge support. I felt like the edge held its shape well, even if I was sleeping right on it.Temperature: 3/10I was expecting this bed to be at least temperature-neutral, given the latex foam and organic cotton and wool, which are supposed to be more breathable -- but that's not what I experienced. Most nights, I felt like the mattress was retaining my body heat and causing me to overheat. My Whoop band even agreed (more on this later).Design/construction: 9/10Big fan of the construction and design. Avocado says it has 17 different layers of materials with zoned support in the Luxury Organic mattress, which I can't particularly feel when laying on it, but the bed does seem extremely luxurious, durable and long-lasting.Brand policies (Includes price and certifications): 7/10Avocado has the most environmental certifications of any mattress brand I've tested, which is really important to me. The main thing bringing down my score in this category is how expensive this mattress is.Sleep quality: 2/10My data from the Whoop speaks for itself: I did not sleep well on the Avocado Luxury Organic. I'm so tired.Overall Score: 56/100 = 5.6/10"I sincerely like the design and feel of this bed, but in the end, I couldn't overcome its firmness level as a side sleeper. I need something softer and more pressure-relieving. If we had tried the plush or ultra-plush versions, my score probably would have been higher." - Dillon
Dillon proving that the bed’s edge support deserved his personal ranking score of 9 out of 10. Aly Lopez/CNETAly's scoring breakdownFirmness: 16/20I agree with Dillon that this model leans more on the medium-firm side. At the beginning of this 30-night series, I wanted a firm mattress, but after a few months of actually testing firmer beds, I’m beginning to think that I need a slightly softer mattress for side sleeping. Nonetheless, it felt pretty good when sleeping on my stomach and back and for the most part, kept my spine from sagging. Feel: 16/20Overall, I enjoy the responsive innerspring feel of the Avocado Luxury Organic. I appreciate that I can easily switch positions without feeling “stuck,” which is key because I move around a lot throughout the night. Motion isolation: 5/10I found the motion isolation to be surprisingly good but not great. Beds with coils are typically not great at isolating motion, but I thought this mattress did a decent job of it -- likely due to its innerspring units with over 2,000 individually wrapped coils. Still, it isn’t quite as motion-isolating as we’d like especially considering how much we both move around (and how much our pets jump on and off the bed). Edge support: 8/10I was impressed with the edge support. Often sleeping right on the edge, I rarely felt like I was going to fall off or that the perimeter was sagging uncomfortably. Temperature: 3/10I’m a hot sleeper, and this mattress consistently felt too warm for me. Almost every night, I’d have to take the covers off completely to cool down at some point. I believe this is due to the organic cotton and wool used in the cover. In the future, I would prefer a bed with cooling technology. Design/construction: 9/10I love the design and look of this bed. Its materials feel extremely high-quality, luxurious, and natural. The hybrid construction provides durability, and I have no doubt that this bed will hold its shape over the years. Brand policies (includes price and certifications): 7/10Environmental and social responsibility are extremely important to me, and as a brand, Avocado goes above and beyond in this category with its impressive list of certifications and green initiatives. Avocado offers a one-year trial period and a 25-year limited warranty. The only reason I didn’t score it higher is because of the price, which knocked it down a point because it’s not within my personal budget for a bed.Sleep quality: 7/10My sleep quality was alright. Actually, it was almost exactly the same as it was on our previous mattress, the Saatva Classic. I would still like to see improvements in my sleep quality overall on our next mattress.Overall Score: 71/100 = 7.1/10I would consider keeping this bed longer if it also worked for Dillon. My main qualm with this mattress was that I kept getting too hot, which is a hard issue to solve unless the bed has special cooling technology, which this does not.
Dillon scored the mattress 5.6 out of 10, and I gave it 7.1 out of 10. Our dog ranked it 12 out of 10. Dillon Lopez/CNETHow we tracked our sleepFor the first half of this trial, I used my Apple Watch as a sleep tracker, and Dillon used his Whoop band. It didn’t take long for us to notice that his Whoop band seemed to provide more accurate biometrics than my Apple Watch, so our friends at Whoop sent a band over for me, too. With both of us using the Whoop band and app, Dillon and I now have the same exact sleep metrics to compare and contrast.Apple Watch vs. WhoopOnce I received my Whoop band, I decided to conduct an experiment comparing the accuracy of the two. With my Apple Watch on one wrist and the Whoop band on the other, I went to bed feeling like a guinea pig in my own sleep study. The next morning, I was surprised by the results:
Tracker Total SleepDeep SleepREM SleepLight SleepTime AwakeApple Watch 7:251:071:284:470:26Whoop band 6:521:590:394:140:58
My Apple Watch reported that I slept over 30 minutes longer than my Whoop band. It also said that I got 1:28 hours of REM sleep, while Whoop reported that I only got 39 minutes. Whoop said I was awake for an hour, while my Apple Watch reported only 26 minutes. I specifically paid attention to the times I woke up throughout the night to compare the two, and Whoop seemed almost spot-on. I also found it interesting that there was such a large discrepancy between my time spent in deep sleep and REM sleep, which is a more complicated measurement to verify.
An example of the nightly sleep stage data provided by my Whoop band. Aly Lopez/CNETThe main numbers we focused on for this trial were our sleep stages each night: how long we spent in light/core sleep, REM sleep, deep sleep and time awake. The Whoop bands were reliable and accurate in tracking these numbers and other metrics, such as heart rate, breath rate, stress levels, body temperature and more. Our sleep data resultsLet's dive into the numbers. As you can see in the graph below, Dillon consistently slept less (sometimes much less) than I did. My nightly sleep ranged from a low of just under 6 hours to a high of nearly 9 hours. Dillon's average sleep ranged much more drastically, from a low of 3 hours to a high of just over 8 hours. For four of the 30 total nights on the Avocado Luxury Organic, Dillon slept less than 4 hours. Overall, Dillon's average nightly sleep was 5 hours, 49 minutes (5.82 hours), and mine was 7 hours, 12 minutes (7.22 hours). Avocado Luxury Organic: Nightly Hours Slept Dillon’s nightly sleep ranged from lows of 3 hours to a few highs of around 8 hours.Compared to our sleep data from our previous mattress, the Saatva Classic, Dillon’s average sleep went down nearly an hour, from 6 hours and 40 minutes (6.68 hours) to 5 hours and 49 minutes (5.82 hours). Oddly enough, my sleep numbers stayed almost the same as the previous month. My average decreased slightly, from 7 hours and 15 minutes (7.30 hours) to 7 hours and 12 minutes (7.22 hours). The luxury firm Saatva Classic and the base model of the Avocado Luxury Organic are similar beds in their feel, construction and firmness levels, so it makes sense that my sleep didn’t change much.Average Sleep: Saatva Classic vs. Avocado Luxury Organic My average nightly sleep stayed about the same, while Dillon’s average went down nearly an hour.Throughout the 30 nights, on average:I slept about 7 hours and 12 minutes per night.Dillon slept around 5 hours and 49 minutes per night. I spent 33 minutes awake each night.Dillon spent about 1 hour awake each night.Interestingly, Dillon and I spent similar amounts of time in REM and deep sleep each night. The main difference in our sleep phases is that I spent over an hour and a half longer in core/light sleep (4 hours and 37 minutes) than Dillon (3 hours and 2 minutes).For REM, Dillon averaged around 1 hour and 11 minutes (1.19 hours), while I was around 1 hour and 5 minutes (1.09 hours). Dillon and I both averaged around 1 hour and 30 minutes of deep sleep.30-Night Sleep Phase Averages On average, Aly slept longer than Dillon. Dillon was awake more but, percentage-wise, spent more time in deep and REM sleep than Aly.When comparing our sleep on the Saatva Classic, the results made sense for my sleep but were somewhat surprising for Dillon: I slept nearly the same, while Dillon averaged over an hour less sleep per night than he had on the Saatva Classic. The Saatva Classic model we slept on was a luxury firm, which we ranked around medium firm to firm, and it was much too firm for Dillon as a side sleeper. Given that Avocado ranks its standard Luxury Organic model around a medium to medium-firm, we thought the softer profile would help Dillon sleep a little better -- but alas, he slept worse.After sleeping on the Avocado Luxury Organic for 30 nights and analyzing our sleep data, we would say it lands more around a medium-firm, even drifting into the firm category. Combined with us overheating quite a bit, that might have led Dillon to such low sleep numbers. One night, while lying in bed and attempting to fall asleep, Dillon’s Whoop band notified him that his skin temperature was too high. One potential cause it listed was “a microclimate created by a sleeve or external heat source during sleep,” which we believe was the mattress, as he had not experienced any of the other reasons listed.
Dillon’s Whoop band told him his skin temperature was too elevated while lying in bed. Dillon Lopez/CNETA nightly play by playTo paint a picture, the nights when we got little sleep usually went like this: I would first fall asleep either lying on my stomach with Jess on my head or my side with Jess curled in my arm. An hour or two later, Dillon would crawl into bed as gently and quietly as possible to prevent me from waking up. I would say about half of the time, it would work, and I wouldn't wake up. In the other half, I would wake up from the motion transfer, and it would be difficult to fall back asleep.
This mattress has hypoallergenic materials that helped my allergen sensitivities since we share the bed with our pets. Aly Lopez/CNETNot long after this, one of us usually became overheated, throwing off the covers in exasperation. Dillon would try to sleep on his stomach since he knew it wasn't pressure-relieving enough for his side, but stomach sleeping is not his natural sleep position. He would eventually make his way to his back, where, unfortunately, snoring is more likely to occur (especially when you're overly tired, which Dillon usually is).I'd awaken once again and try to get comfortable without waking Dillon, but I'd often have no choice but to ask him to please roll onto his side or stomach, which I felt awful for doing because I knew it was uncomfortable for him. Other times, I'd jump ship and move to the couch in the wee hours of the morning. We recognize that our sleep numbers are not solely based on our experience with the mattress. Many other factors affect sleep quality, such as diet, exercise, bedroom environment, stress levels, etc., and we did our best to keep these outside factors as consistent as possible throughout the trial.When one partner finds a mattress uncomfortable, the problems can become exacerbated and affect both people, such as Dillon having to lie on his back because there's not enough pressure relief for his side, causing him to snore, or me getting too hot and sweaty on a bed with no cooling technology and ripping the covers off. Final thoughts on the Avocado Luxury OrganicIn continuing our search for the perfect mattress, we'd still like to see three areas of improvement:More sleep (8 hours per night for Dillon and at least 8.5 hours for me)More consistent sleepLess time spent awake throughout the night (15-20 minutes or less)After trying this bed for 30 nights, we both feel that the Avocado Luxury Organic is an incredibly high-quality and luxurious mattress. We appreciate the fact that its materials are organic and sustainably sourced, which is an important factor for us.
Avocado boasts an impressive list of certifications -- some of the toughest to receive in the mattress industry. AvocadoStill, this mattress didn't work well for us and our particular needs, which is sad because we both love Avocado as a brand and had high hopes that it would be our perfect mattress.
Charlie loved the Avocado Luxury Organic mattress and would choose to keep it if he could. Aly Lopez/CNETAvocado's firmness options and pricingThe Avocado Luxury Organic mattress comes in three firmness options: standard or medium, plush with the pillow top and ultra-plush with the box top. Let's break down who each would work best for.Ultra-plush: If you and your sleep partner are primarily side sleepers and prefer a softer mattress, check out the ultra-plush model of the Avocado Luxury Organic. It is a medium-soft mattress, or around 3 out of 10 on the firmness scale. The box top adds three inches of soft and cushioning Talalay latex, making the mattress 19 inches tall.Plush: As combination sleepers with different sleeping positions, Dillon and I think the plush version of the Avocado Luxury Organic with the pillow top would have been better for us. It's rated medium, making it ideal for combination sleepers. With the pillow top, there's extra pressure relief for side sleepers, which would have been better for Dillon (and me since I also occasionally sleep on my side).Standard: Suppose both of you sleep predominately on your backs and stomachs (or are heavier) and prefer a firmer bed. In that case, we recommend checking out Avocado's base model of the Luxury Organic (the one we slept on). We rank this around a medium-firm on the firmness scale, so it provides enough support to keep your spine neutrally aligned. If you and your partner are heavier individuals with varying sleep positions, this will likely feel a little softer and could be a great option.Keep in mind that the plush model with the pillow top is an additional $800 for a queen-size, and the ultra-plush model with the box top adds $1,600 to the price tag, bringing the total for a queen-size ultra-plush Avocado Luxury Organic mattress to an MSRP price of $6,599.If you’re considering the standard version of the Avocado Luxury Organic but it’s a little out of your budget, we recommend checking out the Avocado Green mattress instead. For less than half the price of the Luxury Organic, it has a similar construction and feel. Depending on your preferences, you can also choose to add a pillow top or box top to the Avocado Green bed to make it softer.Our key takeawaysAn unexpected takeaway from this experience is that Dillon and I sleep hotter than we initially realized. Moving forward, we'd like to try a mattress with cooling technology to see if it helps us sleep better and longer.
As hot sleepers, Dillon and I would like to try a mattress with cooling technology. Dillon Lopez/CNETGoing into the trial, Dillon knew he'd prefer a soft mattress that would allow him to rest comfortably on his side, which was confirmed again. I could also benefit from a slightly softer mattress, as I spend more time on my side than I initially thought at the beginning of this series.   It wasn't perfect for us, but we still highly recommend Avocado and its high-end mattresses. If you're looking for a luxurious and organic mattress with sustainably sourced materials -- and it's within your budget -- the Avocado Luxury Organic with an added pillow or box top could be an excellent choice for you and your partner. Additionally, if you live in a colder climate or tend to sleep cool and want to stay warmer and cozier at night, this mattress could help you retain some body heat with its organic cotton and wool cover.How many beds will it take to find the perfect one for us? Stay tuned for the next mattress in our 30-Night Mattress Testing Series: Casper Snow.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.