Government benefits | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
Government benefits
Find government benefits and financial help
Food assistance
Health insurance
Housing help
Help with utility bills
Welfare and financial assistance
Social Security
Government checks and payments
State social service agencies
Government death benefits
Report incorrect benefit payments
Government grants and loans
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
Government benefits
Government benefits
Most popular
Learn about food assistance programs
Get information about health insurance
Find out about welfare benefits and financial assistance
Get information on government programs that may help you pay for food, housing, health care, and other basic living expenses.
Find government benefits and financial help
Use the benefit finder tool or search by category to learn which benefits you and your family may be eligible for and how to apply.
Food assistance
Get nutritious food through SNAP (food stamps), WIC for women, infants, and children, and emergency food assistance.
Health insurance
Get information on Medicaid, Medicare, the ACA health insurance marketplace, and COBRA.
Housing help
Learn about rental and buyer assistance programs. Find emergency housing and avoid eviction.
Help with utility bills
Learn about government programs to help pay for phone, internet, and energy bills.
Welfare and financial assistance
Learn about welfare benefits, financial assistance, and more.
Social Security
Learn about Social Security, including retirement and disability benefits, how to get or replace your Social Security card, and more.
Government checks and payments
Report missing government checks. Trace unexpected payments. Make a payment to the government.
State social service agencies
Contact your state social service agency for information about state benefit programs and more.
Government death benefits
Find government survivor benefits for housing, education, military, and more.
Where to report incorrect benefit payments
Get contact information for reporting missing or incorrect federal benefit payments.
Government grants and loans
Learn about federal grants for states and organizations and federal loans for individuals.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests