World’s first AI-designed viruses a step towards AI-generated life
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
19 September 2025
World’s first AI-designed viruses a step towards AI-generated life
Scientists used AI to write coherent viral genomes, using them to synthesize bacteriophages capable of killing resistant strains of bacteria.
By
Katie Kavanagh
Katie Kavanagh
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
AI-designed bacteriophages were capable of infecting and killing host bacteria. Credit: Lee D. Simon/Science Photo LibraryScientists have created the first ever viruses designed by artificial intelligence (AI), and they’re capable of hunting down and killing strains of Escherichia coli (E. coli).“This is the first time AI systems are able to write coherent genome-scale sequences,” says Brian Hie, a computational biologist at Stanford University, California. “The next step is AI-generated life,” says Hie, but his colleague Samuel King adds that “a lot of experimental advances need to occur in order to design an entire living organism”.The study, by Hie, King and colleagues, was posted on the preprint server bioRxiv on 17 September1 and is not yet peer reviewed, but the authors say that it shows the potential of AI to design biotechnological tools and therapies for treating bacterial infections. “Hopefully, a strategy like this can complement existing phage-therapy strategies and someday augment the therapeutics [to] target pathogens of concern,” says Hie.Genomes from the computerAI models have already been used to generate DNA sequences, single proteins and multi-component complexes2. But designing a whole genome is much more challenging owing to complex interactions between genes and gene replication and regulation processes. These AI systems are now capable of helping scientists to manipulate highly intricate biological systems, such as whole genomes, says Hie. “There are many important biological functions that you can only access if you’re able to design complete genomes.”To design the viral genomes, the researchers used Evo 1 and Evo 2, AI models that analyse and generate DNA, RNA and protein sequences. First, they needed a design template, which is a starting sequence that guides the AI model to generate a genome with desired characteristics. They chose ΦX174, a simple single-stranded DNA virus that contains 5,386 nucleotides in 11 genes, and all the genetic elements required to infect hosts and replicate inside them.The Evo models had already been trained on more than 2 million phage genomes, but the researchers further trained the models — using a method called supervised learning — to generate ΦX174-like viral genomes with the specific function of infecting E.coli strains, especially those resistant to antibiotics.Five ways science is tackling the antibiotic resistance crisisThe researchers evaluated thousands of AI-generated sequences and narrowed their search down to 302 viable bacteriophages. Most candidates shared more than 40% nucleotide identity with ΦX174, but some had completely different coding sequences. The researchers synthesized DNA from the AI-designed genomes and inserted them into host bacteria to grow phages. These phages were then experimentally tested to see whether they could infect and kill E.coli.Some 16 of the 302 AI-designed bacteriophage showed host specificity for E. coli and could infect the bacteria. The researchers found that combinations of AI-designed phages could infect and kill three different E. coli strains, which the wild-type ΦX174 was unable to do.“It was quite a surprising result that was really exciting for us because it shows that this method might potentially be very useful for therapeutics,” says King.Biosafety concerns
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03055-y
ReferencesKing, S. H. et al. Preprint at bioRxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.09.12.675911 (2025).Madani, A. et al. Nature Biotechnol. 41, 1099–1106 (2023).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Five protein-design questions that still challenge AI
What’s next for AlphaFold and the AI protein-folding revolution
Why phage viruses could be the key to treating deadly infections — if they can be harnessed safely
The huge protein database that spawned AlphaFold and biology’s AI revolution
Beyond AlphaFold: how AI is decoding the grammar of the genome
Subjects
Molecular biology
Synthetic biology
Latest on:
Molecular biology
Engineered prime editors with minimal genomic errors
Article 17 SEP 25
Programmable antisense oligomers for phage functional genomics
Article 10 SEP 25
DNA2 enables growth by restricting recombination-restarted replication
Article 03 SEP 25
Synthetic biology
Mirror of the unknown: should research on mirror-image molecular biology be stopped?
Comment 15 SEP 25
Amplifying antigen-induced cellular responses with proximity labelling
Article 10 SEP 25
Supervised learning in DNA neural networks
Article 03 SEP 25
Jobs
postdoctoral researcher
Molecular Mechanisms and Neural Circuits of Fear Memory, Maternal and Social Behavior. A recent PhD in molecular biology / neuroscience.
Piscataway, New Jersey
Rutgers University Shumyatsky lab
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Nanotechnology Organisation: Nature Portfolio  Location: New York or Madrid  Application Deadline: Oc...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials
Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Materials Organization: Nature Portfolio Locations: New York, Jersey City, Shanghai or Beijing Applicatio...
New York City, New York (US)
Springer Nature Ltd
Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Department of Cell and Systems Biology University of Miami | Miller School of Medicine, Miami FL   The Department of Cell and Systems Biology at ...
University of Miami, Miami
University of Miami - Department of Cell and Systems Biology
Postdoctoral fellow in neuroscience
Postdoctoral fellow at Tulane University Neuroscience, Cerebrovascular, Ischemia, Dementia, Traumatic brain injury.
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University - neuroscience and stroke research
Related Articles
Five protein-design questions that still challenge AI
What’s next for AlphaFold and the AI protein-folding revolution
Why phage viruses could be the key to treating deadly infections — if they can be harnessed safely
The huge protein database that spawned AlphaFold and biology’s AI revolution
Beyond AlphaFold: how AI is decoding the grammar of the genome
Subjects
Molecular biology
Synthetic biology
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited