6 free file managers on Linux that are better than anything on Windows
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
6 free file managers on Linux that are better than anything on Windows
By
Ayush Pande
Published 4 hours ago
Ayush Pande is a PC hardware and gaming writer. When he's not working on a new article, you can find him with his head stuck inside a PC or tinkering with a server operating system. Besides computing, his interests include spending hours in long RPGs, yelling at his friends in co-op games, and practicing guitar.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Pretty much every GUI operating system ships with a utility to help you browse your directories, files, and documents. Windows, for example, has a decent File Explorer that can get the job done for the average Joe. If you want more facilities, you can try arming your PC with Total Commander, OneCommander, Directory Opus, and a host of other cool file managers. Then there’s the Linux ecosystem, which houses a plethora of file managers – some built into your distro by default, others requiring a little bit of terminal wizardry to work properly. While the advanced file managers on Windows 11 are nothing to scoff at, their Linux-based rivals tend to bring a lot of unique features and customizable designs to the table. As a Linux enthusiast with many years in my distro-hopping résumé, here are some of the best FOSS file managers I’ve come across during my (mis)adventures with different distributions.
6
Midnight Commander
The ol’ reliable
Starting with the file manager loved by CLI experts, Midnight Commander is a bit different from the ones you’ll find on Windows. Rather than displaying icons for your directories, Midnight Commander is more of a text-based file manager, and uses a menu-based interface to help you perform file operations. As such, it’s better for folks who prefer terminal-like UIs to conventional GUI layouts for large-scale file operations.
But you shouldn’t let its seemingly rudimentary appearance deceive you. Midnight Commander’s dual pane interface makes moving files between two directories a cakewalk, while its built-in mcedit text editor supports syntax highlighting, can automatically indent code, and even works with macros. The best part? You can launch Midnight Commander when SSHing into your Linux machine from another client, allowing you to modify your files from its interface over a remote connection!
5
Konqueror
It has a built-in web browser
The KDE desktop environment includes a couple of game-changing utilities, and Konqueror is one of them. While its UI may appear a little dated compared to Dolphin (which I’ll go over in a bit), Konqueror makes up for it with its neat features. For starters, it’s capable of leveraging KHTML and KDEWebKit to render web pages directly inside its UI. Konqueror also pairs well with other applications to display detailed previews for different document types. On the networking front, it supports FTP and SFTP connections, and you can even create split views to simplify file transfer operations between your client and server. It also borrows version control, custom context menu actions, and a few other features from Dolphin, on top of supporting a handful of plugins (including an AdBlocker, of all things) to further bolster its utility.
4
Treemacs
For Emacs lovers
Emacs is hands-down the most versatile text editor I’ve ever used – to the point where I still get intimidated trying to build certain projects with it. After all, it has its own collection of shortcuts and quirks that make it simultaneously useful and also a pain to deal with. But if you’re as fond of this platform as I am, you’ll want to give Treemacs a shot. Compatible with most file types supported by Emacs, Treemacs offers a tree-based UI to help you manage your project files. It ships with the Git integration, supports session persistence, and has a flexible UI with customizable icon themes.
3
Thunar
Lightweight and efficient
The Xfce desktop environment is well-known for its lightweight nature, and its built-in file manager is no different. Compared to the other GUI-heavy file managers, Thunar doesn’t tax your system resources, making it a solid choice for older systems. Plus, it has a couple of handy features baked in. For example, you can launch the terminal directly from a directory and set up custom keyboard shortcuts. You can also modify its behavior using plugins, create custom emblems for different folders, and even execute scripts from its interface.
2
Yazi
When you care about speed over all else
If you’re looking for something that’s even more responsive than Thunar, you’ll want to check out Yazi. Designed in Rust, Yazi is a terminal-based file manager like Midnight Commander that supports asynchronous file operations to speed up your tasks and works well with different image protocols.
Yazi also has a handful of plugins to choose from and even integrates with Ripgrep, Neovim, and other advanced tools. Speaking of, Yazi supports most of Vim’s keybindings, so you don’t have to memorize entirely different shortcuts if you already use this powerful text editor.
1
Dolphin
Customize it to your heart’s content
Lying on the opposite end of the efficiency spectrum from Yazi and Thunar, Dolphin is the default file manager on KDE Plasma that includes a lot of features at the expense of requiring extra CPU and memory resources. On the navigation front, it supports multiple tabs, can serve files inside split views, and supports different view modes. Dolphin also lets you launch the terminal directly from its UI, works well with network shares thanks to KIO integration, and includes dedicated undo/redo options. Plus, it’s extremely customizable, as you can modify the panels and toolbars to your liking. Likewise, you can also set custom actions for the context menu, and that’s before you include the sheer number of plugins you can add to Dolphin.
Nothing quite like Linux’s file managers
If you’re still looking for cool file managers for your favorite distro, I’ve got a few more suggestions. Ranger is another neat terminal-based file manager that’s designed with a Vim-like interface, while Nemo is the default utility for organizing folders and directories on Cinnamon. PcmanFM is also worth checking out if you want a lightweight option, though its UI may seem somewhat dated if you’re used to the likes of Dolphin.
Software and Services
Linux
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
4 reasons you should be using rootless Docker on Linux
2 days ago
Nvidia's deal with Intel has far reaching implications, and most of them aren't good
2 days ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
2 days ago
Zorin OS 18 opens its doors to those fleeing Microsoft as the Windows 10 end-of-life date looms
Today's best deals
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
10 hours ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
13 hours ago
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
There's only one clipboard manager you need, and it's not the one built into Windows
I transformed our LAN gaming setup with a mini PC and free software
Review: Dying Light: The Beast is the true Dying Light sequel I'd been waiting for
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.