World Mental Health Day 2025
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Home/
Campaigns/
World Mental Health Day/
World Mental Health Day 2025
World Mental Health Day 2025
© WHO
©
Credits
World Mental Health Day,10 October 2025Mental health in humanitarian emergenciesWorld Mental Health Day serves as a powerful reminder that there is no health without mental health. This year’s campaign focuses on the urgent need to support the mental health and psychosocial needs of people affected by humanitarian emergencies.Crises such as natural disasters, conflicts, and public health emergencies cause emotional distress, with one in five individuals experiencing a mental health condition. Supporting the mental well-being of individuals during such crises is not just important – it saves lives, gives people the strength to cope, the space to heal and to recover and rebuild not only as individuals but as communities. That’s why it is essential for everyone, including government officials, health and social care providers, school staff and community groups to come together. By working hand in hand, we can ensure the most vulnerable have access to the support they need while protecting the well-being of everyone.  By investing in evidence and community-based interventions, we can address immediate mental health needs, foster long-term recovery, and empower people and communities to rebuild their lives and thrive.On this World Mental Health Day, let us intensify our efforts to create a world where mental health is valued, protected, and accessible for all, especially in the face of adversity.
Campaign themeMental health in humanitarian emergencies
Hashtag#WorldMentalHealthDay
Link toWMHD information from the World Federation of Mental Health
Did you know?Mental health and psychosocial support are essentialDuring crises, nearly everyone experiences distress and social disruption. Homes are lost, families are separated, and communities are fractured. While one in five people may have a mental health condition, nearly everyone affected experiences emotional distress and disrupted community ties. These impacts often remain long after physical safety is restored, undermining recovery and resilience. People with significant mental health conditions must not be left without care and support. Continuity of care is a priority during and following any emergency.Migrants and refugees face mental health risks across their journeyMigrants and refugees face multiple stressors throughout their journey – from conflict and displacement to dangerous journeys and integration challenges in host countries. By the end of 2024, over 123 million people were forcibly displaced worldwide. A staggering 71% of them are hosted in low- and middle-income countries, where health-care systems are already under strain. In these settings, access to mental health services is extremely limited.
Key messages
Mental health in emergencies
Conflicts, disasters, and health emergencies take a heavy toll on mental health. Around 1 in 5 people in conflict-affected areas are estimated to have a mental health condition. Experiencing fear, anxiety or sadness in such circumstances is a normal reaction to very stressful events.
Mental health is essential for rebuilding lives
Beyond food, water, and medicine, survivors also need mental health and psychosocial support to cope, recover, and rebuild.
Integrating mental health strengthens emergency response
Making mental health and psychosocial support a core part of emergency response not only saves lives but also strengthens communities and health systems for the future.
Investing in mental health is investing in recovery
Investing in mental health and psychosocial support helps families, communities, and economies recover from crises, build long-term resilience, and shape stronger health systems.
Mental health care saves lives
The Mental Health and Psychosocial Support Minimum Service Package offers proven solutions in emergencies, ensuring timely, coordinated care that reduces suffering, strengthens well-being, and builds more inclusive responses.
Inclusive mental health care leads to stronger communities
Inclusive support must reach children, older people, persons with disabilities, refugees, and people with pre-existing mental health conditions, including those in institutions. Addressing barriers such as stigma, discrimination, costs, and language is essential.
Protect your mental health
Prioritize your mental health by staying connected, being physically active, and following routines. Minimize alcohol use, engage in meaningful and enjoyable activities, and seek support from trusted friends, family, or health professionals.
Promoting mental well-being through various approaches
A layered approach – from self-help tools and Psychological First Aid to specialized mental health services – ensures accessible, efficient, and responsive support for all.
Protect the well-being of humanitarian workers
Humanitarian workers face extreme stress and are often directly affected by the crises they respond to. Organizations should provide rest, supervision, peer support, and workplace mental health programmes to sustain an effective humanitarian response.
Campaign materials
Coming soon
Publications
MHPSS Minimum Service Package
Read more
29 April 2020
Doing What Matters in Times of Stress
Doing What Matters in Times of Stress: An Illustrated Guide is a stress management guide for coping with adversity. The guide aims to equip people...
Download
Read More
28 February 2015
mhGAP Humanitarian Intervention Guide (mhGAP-HIG)
Adults and children affected by emergencies experience a substantial and diverse range of mental, substance use, and neurological problems. The mhGAP...
Download
Read More
Videos
15 September 2025
What is the Mental Health and Psychosocial Support Minimum Service Package?
25 August 2025
Addressing mental health needs of refugees and migrants
13 December 2020
Building sustainable mental health systems during and after emergencies
Fact sheets
6 May 2025
Mental health in emergencies
1 September 2025
Refugee and migrant mental health
WHO's work in mental health
Mental Health and Substance Use Department
Learn more
Ensuring a coordinated and effective mental health response in emergencies
Learn more
Mental health & COVID-19
Learn more
News
25 February 2025
Departmental update
Advancing Mental Health and Psychosocial Support in emergencies: WHO’s global full-scale simulation exercise in Türkiye
19 August 2025
Departmental update
Ensuring vital mental health and psychosocial support reaches people in need
16 April 2025
Departmental update
Country-level champions meet to strengthen interagency coordination of mental health and psychosocial support across humanitarian emergencies
More about mental health
16 June 2022
World mental health report: Transforming mental health for all
World mental health report: Transforming mental health for all
2 September 2025
World mental health today: latest data
World mental health today: latest data
2 September 2025
Mental health atlas 2024
Mental health atlas 2024
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO