How can universities train the skilled workers of tomorrow?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
world view
article
How can universities train the skilled workers of tomorrow?
Download PDF
WORLD VIEW
23 September 2025
How can universities train the skilled workers of tomorrow?
The high cost of running educational laboratories is hindering industrial progress. An innovative path forwards must be charted.
By
Roseanne Warren0
Roseanne Warren
Roseanne Warren is an associate professor in mechanical engineering at the University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
As ever more technologies — including advanced batteries, computers and artificial-intelligence tools — enter our lives, increasing numbers of highly skilled workers are needed to build them. Universities can provide training. But they are struggling to keep up with surging demand.Battery prices are falling, so why are electric cars still so expensive?Take semiconductors. From integrated circuits to microsensors, chips shape our lives. For decades, through cooperation and coordinated planning, the chip industry has triumphed over technical challenges to make transistors ever smaller. Today, it faces a fresh scaling challenge that it seems unable to overcome: an unprecedented global shortage in workforce training and talent.In the United Kingdom, 63% of semiconductor manufacturers are facing a worker shortfall (see go.nature.com/4mqea8e). By 2030, the US semiconductor sector is projected to have a 58% shortage in its workforce (see go.nature.com/4nkwzqz). The European Union faces a similar crisis: the sector is expected to have some 75,000 unfilled positions by 2030 (see go.nature.com/4nckwir). And in Asia, the industry’s epicentre, South Korea expects to have shortages of at least 30,000 people over the next decade.This skills chasm threatens countries’ plans to build semiconductor manufacturing infrastructure, with broad implications. Defence technologies rely on sophisticated chips; semiconductor security is linked to national cybersecurity; and supply-chain issues can disrupt entire economies. And there is a crucial problem: sophisticated technologies require complex manufacturing processes, making them vulnerable to training shortfalls.People who produce high-end semiconductors need to know how to work in a specialized semiconductor-fabrication facility, or ‘fab’ — a tightly controlled and isolated environment designed to minimize contamination by airborne particles. China’s nascent semiconductor industry has, so far, focused on simpler ‘fabless’ chips. But to produce high-end chips, the nation will need highly proficient workers.Tariffs hit science labs: Trump’s levies raise cost of suppliesThe US semiconductor industry has a development plan, which includes feel-good strategies for ‘winning hearts and minds’ — such as providing career ambassadors and webinars. The United Kingdom has proposed similar outreach campaigns. Attracting talent is important, but what’s next? These plans fail to acknowledge the true cost of a highly specialized, highly technical education.I teach courses on micro- and nanofabrication at the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, which operates a state-of-the art clean room (Nanofab) and electron-microscopy and surface-analysis laboratory. The university showcases the types of initiative needed to develop people’s skills. We have established industry–academic partnerships through the Utah Network for Integrated Computing and Semiconductor Research and Education. We offer free clean-room training courses for technicians and have obtained industrial support for class fees. But we experience many challenges.Academic clean rooms at public institutions operate at the mercy of university administrators and state legislators. Tool costs are high. An electron-beam lithography system, for example, costs more than US$1 million to buy and $100,000 per year to maintain. Most university clean rooms encourage start-up and tech companies to pay for part-time use of the facilities to offset such expenses.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
Nature 645, 824 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03070-z
Reprints and permissions
Competing Interests
The author declares no competing interests.
Related Articles
How cutting-edge computer chips are speeding up the AI revolution
Tariffs hit science labs: Trump’s levies raise cost of supplies
Battery prices are falling, so why are electric cars still so expensive?
Net zero needs AI — five actions to realize its promise
Subjects
Policy
Research management
Education
Funding
Latest on:
Policy
Research management
Education
What research might be lost after the NIH’s cuts? Nature trained a bot to find out
Nature Index 24 SEP 25
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
World View 24 SEP 25
The future of universities: a Nature special report
News Feature 24 SEP 25
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
World View 24 SEP 25
The future of universities: a Nature special report
News Feature 24 SEP 25
Universities are — and must continue to be — a force for good
Editorial 24 SEP 25
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
Career Feature 24 SEP 25
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
World View 24 SEP 25
The future of universities: a Nature special report
News Feature 24 SEP 25
Jobs
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
The School of Life Science and Technology (SLST) invites applications for numerous tenure-track and tenured positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
How cutting-edge computer chips are speeding up the AI revolution
Tariffs hit science labs: Trump’s levies raise cost of supplies
Battery prices are falling, so why are electric cars still so expensive?
Net zero needs AI — five actions to realize its promise
Subjects
Policy
Research management
Education
Funding
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited