How to Set Floating-Point Precision in Apache IoTDB Table Model? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to Set Floating-Point Precision in Apache IoTDB Table Model?
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
19 times
1
In Apache IoTDB 2.0.4's tree model, for sequences of FLOAT or DOUBLE type, if the encoding method uses RLE or TS_2DIFF, the number of decimal places for floating-point numbers can be specified by the MAX_POINT_NUMBER attribute when creating the sequence. For example:
CREATE TIMESERIES `root.vehicle.d0.s0` WITH DATATYPE=FLOAT, ENCODING=RLE, '`MAX_POINT_NUMBER`'='2';
Following this approach, I attempted to set the precision when creating a table in the table model, using the following statement:
CREATE TABLE vehicle(
dn STRING TAG,
sn FLOAT FIELD '`MAX_POINT_NUMBER`'='2'
) WITH (TTL=DEFAULT);
However, the execution failed with an error indicating that MAX_POINT_NUMBER is not supported.
Error message:
Msg: org.apache.iotdb.jdbc.IoTDBSQLException: 700: line 1:54: mismatched input ''`MAX_POINT_NUMBER`''. Expecting: ')', ','
Additionally, the official documentation states that for columns in a table, only adding and deleting columns are supported, but not modifying them.
So, how can I set floating-point precision in the table model using SQL?
apache-iotdb
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 17 at 16:31
ごまめとにまめごまめとにまめ
3344 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
0
Why the data precision is lost when calling python API to query floating point data in Apache IoTDB?
0
How to set up a real-time computing node/point in Apache IoTDB?
0
How to set dataReplicationFactor in startup progress of Apache IoTDB?
Related questions
0
Why the data precision is lost when calling python API to query floating point data in Apache IoTDB?
0
How to set up a real-time computing node/point in Apache IoTDB?
0
How to set dataReplicationFactor in startup progress of Apache IoTDB?
0
How can I name the device and measured value under certain measurement point of Apache IoTDB?
0
How to set the debug and trace function of sql query in Apache IoTDB?
0
How to retrieve the console logs of Apache IoTDB when deploying iotdb-session in springboot?
0
How to query interpolation in Apache IoTDB?
0
How can user set the startup memory size of Apache IoTDB?
0
How to delete data by name of table in Apache IoTDB?
Load 6 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
apache-iotdb
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
Historical Survey: What elements in D&D can affect a character's level outside of leveling up?
How to make the frameticks point outward?
Why it takes so long to referee a paper in some journals?
git says Bad key types '+ssh-rsa,ssh-dss' when trying to do git fetch on my MacBook. How do I fix?
How to directly reboot into the EFI GUI via an EFI shell?
The unit normal field to an oriented manifold in Munkres “Analysis on Manifolds”
"Saying who or what did the action would be clearer": passive voice vs. active voice in a technical document/checklist?
Is there a substance that passes through gasses, but reacts violently (explosive) when confronted with solid matter?
Maximizing profit given a PMF
How to block an entire page with uBlock Origin?
Should you publish a new result as an appendum?
What is this circuit box for
How did "hospital" lose its first syllable in some languages?
Making `apt-get` read answers from stdin on graphical Ubuntu
Do the Matrix movies take place in our present or our future?
What would be the impact of a being that is so hot it melts metal from 1km away. How far away would be habitable? (On Earth btw)
Why is my battery being zapped?
What does, "as having nothing" mean in 2 Corinthians 6:10?
Upright double quotes with minted
Trilogy set on a very unusual human colony. According to the law, only a certain quota of scientists (perhaps 50) are allowed to live on the planet
Can I use Heroic Inspiration on a natural 1 on an Attack roll?
What's that 90s short-story? A magazine guess-how-many-objects-fit contest, a computer calculation bug, and prize money delivered as gold
Was my travel companion unfairly denied entry to Aruba due to discrimination?
Differences, distributions, and definitions
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211