My College Kids Went Back to School, so I Went on a Solo Cruise - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Parenting
My college kids went back to school, so I went on a cruise alone. It was awkward at first, but I loved my alone time.
Essay by
Cristine Struble
The author loved going on a cruise without her family.
Oscar Wong/Getty Images
2025-09-20T11:07:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
When my kids went back to college, I went on a cruise alone without my husband.
Although I had to push myself outside my comfort zone, I loved being alone.
I learned that I don't have to tie my happiness to my family.
Greeted with a warm smile, I scanned my seapass and reminded myself that these next few days would be an adventure, a respite, or whatever I chose them to be.
There would be no prodding to get grumpy teenagers out of bed or debating when is the best time to have lunch. This cruise was about me, and I was proud of it.As a mother, many years have been spent supporting others' activities. I've spent hours in carpool lines or at swim practices. I had no alone time.
But now my kids are in college. After they went back to campus this fall, I took an opportunity to go on a cruise alone. While it would have been nice for this quick getaway to be a couple's trip, it was not in the cards. Instead, I chose to embrace my party of one, and I couldn't be happier.Traveling alone does not bring lonelinessAnyone who has been on a Royal Caribbean ship knows its vast size. While the ship is full of neighborhoods, I easily found spaces that allowed me to thrive. Sitting in Central Park, sipping on a cocktail, was my first opportunity to turn this trip for one into a new perspective.
While I can easily converse with friends, colleagues, and acquaintances, talking to a stranger has never been my strong suit. This solo cruise was about choosing to do different things and embracing the uncomfortable. Instead of ordering my favorite beverage, I asked a stranger about her colorful cocktail. It might not seem like a lot to others, but a few words and a smile allowed my self-doubt to fade.If I had been with my kids or husband, I would have never started that conversation. I would have been focused on them, making sure everyone was having fun, and my enjoyment would have been tied to the smiles on their faces.Even though the words were brief, they gave me a mental boost. My question was not rebuffed, and the moment did not turn into an unbearably long conversation. It showed me I could choose to navigate this vacation and other aspects of my day however I wanted because I was in charge.
At that moment, I was No. 1 on the priority list. Even though I was by myself, loneliness did not fill my mind. Instead, I celebrated the ability to put my preferences, wants, and needs first. More importantly, it served as a reminder to do that in my daily life.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
A table for one is the best seat in the houseOn the first night, I decided to venture into the main dining room. While cruise ship dining might not have the formalities of the old school "Love Boat" series, a table for one is not the norm. Instead of feeling self-conscious, it was my time to give myself some grace and continue to bolster my confidence.Instead of relying on my armor of a book or my phone, I chose to be present in the experience. From looking out a window to watching other diners, it was a time to reflect. Never did I feel jealous that I wasn't laughing with my husband over a silly moment from the pool or coaxing my kids to give me more than a one-word response to my question. It was a time to look, think, and appreciate the opportunity that was given to me.
It sounds simplistic, but spending an hour focused on myself is a luxury that I do not often take advantage of. This meal served as a reminder to carve out those moments more frequently.Vacations end, but lessons are foreverAlthough I spent just a few days on that ship, little moments linger in my mind and compel me to keep revisiting those lessons learned. Choosing to put myself first, give myself grace, and push myself out of my comfort zone were all gifts that I would not have opened on another family vacation or couples' trip.
Would I go on another solo cruise again? If the opportunity presented itself, the simple answer is yes. Sometimes the best way to find mental strength is to follow your own path.
Recommended video
Essay
Parenting
Travel
More
Cruise
Cruises
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account