The tablet that easily replaced my Kindle and iPad now has a worthy successor | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
The tablet that easily replaced my Kindle and iPad now has a worthy successor
The TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus is a balanced Android tablet, providing a dependable daily experience at an affordable price.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 10:57 a.m. PT
TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus
ZDNET's key takeaways The TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus is available for $249. This tablet can switch from full color to an E Ink-like display with the press of a button, it has 256GB of storage, and an eye-catching matte display with 120Hz refresh rate. The Nxtpaper 11 Plus can get heavy when you use it one-handed and doesn't include a case or stylus, though you can buy them separately. $249 at Walmart Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I test a lot of tablets, and admittedly, the design aspirations of many of these devices has gotten complacent. It's hard to get excited about a new tablet because most of its features have already been available before. It's rare to come across a truly innovative tablet that offers something new to consumers. Enter: the TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus. Also: My favorite E Ink tablet just got an ultraportable successor - with upgrades in several waysI already loved the previous model of this tablet, the 10-inch Nxtpaper 10, but it was a Verizon exclusive that you couldn't easily buy elsewhere. The new Nxtpaper 11 Plus is an even better variation of one of my favorite tablets, and it's available at Walmart for $249.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus The TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus is an affordable 11.5-inch tablet that works as a tablet and e-reader in one.
details
View at Walmart In addition to using the tablet's Nxtpaper technology to switch from a full-color display to an ink-paper display, this tablet has 256GB of internal storage, an 11.5-inch display with a 120Hz refresh rate, and expandable 8GB of RAM.Also: This 8-inch gaming tablet is the ultimate plane entertainment device (and on sale)It's strong enough to serve as an entertainment and light-work tablet for most users, but it's also perfect for replacing or doubling as an e-reader. The last time I tested a TCL Nxtpaper tablet, I literally gave my husband my iPad, realizing I no longer needed it. I also gave my kid my Kindle on the same day -- that's how well this tablet performed. So when I tell you that I was giddy with excitement to try the new Nxtpaper 11 Plus, I'm not exaggerating.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETThis time, the Nxtpaper 11 Plus also delivered on my expectations. Immediately upon trying it, I could see how the interface had improved. The display is beautiful and matte, perfect for use with a stylus if you'd like to purchase one separately. And you can now switch to color paper or ink paper modes by pressing a shortcut button along the edge of the tablet instead of selecting an option in the dropdown menu. Also: This Windows 11 tablet for field research is about as durable as a tablet can beThe display on the TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus features Nxtpaper 4.0, an upgrade from the company's older Nxtpaper 2.0 in the previous model. The vibrancy and clarity of the new display leap above the previous tablet, which didn't look very crisp in its full color mode, especially when watching videos. The only drawback to using the TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus as an e-reader is that it's not a light device. At 17.3 ounces (just over one pound), the tablet can feel heavy after some time reading unless you prop it up or use a case for it. I got a hand strap so I can read more easily with the Nxtpaper 11 Plus, and it ended up being a perfect solution.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETPerformance-wise, the TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus is snappy and surprisingly reliable for such an inexpensive Android tablet, though I also found this to be the case with the previous model. It's not overloaded with bloatware upon setup, and the apps don't randomly crash like they do with other Android tablets I've tested.Also: Best note-taking tablets 2025: My hand-picked options for writing notesOne of the big promises that TCL makes with the Nxtpaper 11 Plus is reducing eye strain by filtering 61% more blue light than traditional tablets. You can also set Reading Modes and enable Adaptive Brightness to further reduce the chance of eye fatigue. I use my MacBook Pro and iPad every day for work, so I found a big difference when using the TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus instead of my iPad each night. By the end of the night, my eyes weren't straining or exhausted, and my tension headaches even became milder, which is a big plus.
The TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus has a shortcut button on the side to trigger the different display options. Maria Diaz/ZDNETMore than anything, I loved that I could switch modes from regular full-color to ink paper when I was ready to start reading as part of my bedtime ritual, instead of putting my tablet away to grab my Kindle. ZDNET's buying adviceIf you're in the market for a great entertainment tablet that can double as an e-reader, you can't go wrong with the TCL Nxtpaper 11 Plus. I love that I can use this tablet like I do my Kindle e-reader, especially because you get the fast experience of a regular tablet and the versatility of using any platform to read, not just Kindle.Also: I replaced my Kindle with an iPad Mini as my ebook reader - 8 reasons why I don't regret itThis tablet is truly worth every penny, thanks to its great performance and ease of use. It's not a buggy device whatsoever, like you often see with affordable Android tablets. It promises to be an entertainment tablet that's easy on your eyes, and it delivers on every promise.Best tablet deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $180 (save $40)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $299 (save $50)
Lenovo Tab M9 32GB Wi-Fi 9-inch Tablet With Folio Case (2023 Release):  $95 (save $70)
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus 32GB Tablet (2022 Release, Slate):  $55 (save $65)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $395 (save $86) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
How it comparesTCL Tab 10 Nxtpaper 5GTCL Tab 11 Nxtpaper 5GDisplay size10.4 inches11 inchesProcessorMediaTek 8755MediaTek Helio P60T Octa-coreCamera8MP8MPBattery size6,000mAh8,000mAhWeight480g462gStorage128GB128GBPrice$239$249Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
I put away my iPad and Kindle just hours after testing this tablet (and it's cheap)
Forget the iPad: TCL's newest tablet won't break the bank or strain your eyes
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use