Maxon Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer Synapse are all coming to Windows on Arm
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Maxon Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer Synapse are all coming to Windows on Arm
Image credit: Qualcomm
By
João Carrasqueira
Published 4 hours ago
João has been covering the tech world for over 7 years, with a heavy focus on laptops and the Windows ecosystem. I also love all things tech and videogames, especially Nintendo, which he's always happy to talk about.
Prior to joining XDA in 2021, he worked at Neowin: https://www.neowin.net/news/poster/jo%C3%A3o-carrasqueira/
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Qualcomm has just announced its latest compute products with the Snapdragon X2 Elite lineup of processors at the Snapdragon Summit event. But that's not the only exciting news for Windows on Arm fans — Qualcomm has also announced that more important apps are coming to Windows on Arm PCs, including Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer's Synapse software.
Windows on Arm gets even more support
Creators and gamers rejoice
There's a little bit for everyone, and Qualcomm clearly knows the importance of the apps it's announcing. When the Snapdragon X Elite was announced, it was also revealed that Blackmagic Design's Davinci Resolve was set to be optimized for Arm, and sure enough, it was in a few months. Just recently, Adobe finally delivered on its promise to deliver a nearly complete suite of creative apps that run on Snapdragon. Now, Maxon is joining the fray with its two biggest creative apps. Cinema 4D, one of the most popular 3D motion graphics and animation tools on the market, is getting native support for Windows on Arm early next spring. Along with it, ZBrush, Maxon's 3D modelling software is also coming to Windows on Arm in the spring of 2026. If you're a music creator, there's good news for you, too. Ableton Live — a popular music production tool — will also be coming to Windows on Arm, with a public preview set for early 2026.
Some good news for gamers, too
But not a ton of games yet
Credit: Button remapping through Razer Synapse
Finally, to go along with the massive performance improvements in the Snapdragon X2 Elite's GPU, Razer also had some news for gamers, though it wasn't a new device. The Razer Synapse software, which is used for customizing RGB lighting in Razer's peripherals, as well as enabling other customization features, will be coming to Windows on Arm at some point in the future. Neither Qualcomm nor Razer provided a specific time frame for availability, though. Unfortunately, Qualcomm didn't spend much time announcing new games coming to the platform. We only got a glimpse at Alien: Rogue Incursion, which will apparently leverage the NPU in Snapdragon processors to enable real-time character recognition. The company did touch on the recent announcement of support for Epic Games Services and Easy Anti-Cheat for Windows on Arm, which should help more games make their way to the platform, but there wasn't much else mentioned here. Still, the future of Windows on Arm is looking brighter than ever. The Snapdragon X2 Elite series is the first consumer chip whose NPU supports 80TOPS, and the GPU performance increase should be great news, as that was the only major downfall of the first generation compared to competitors in the Windows space. Devices featuring the Snapdragon X2 Elite will ship in the first half of next year, so you can count us excited.
Windows
Windows 11: Everything you need to know
Microsoft
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
5 hours ago
I don't code, but VSCode is still my favorite app
1 day ago
3 automation recipes that move files exactly where they belong
5 hours ago
Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 puts a 4.6 GHz processor in your pocket
1 day ago
I've saved more than $150 with these 3D prints
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
1 hour ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
3 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Still using your ISP’s weak router? Get this TP-Link Wi-Fi 6 router that's an absolute beast as it drops to an all-time low price
Forget VRAM — these 5 GPU trends are way more disturbing
Large L3 cache isn’t just for benchmarks; here are 3 other advantages in gaming
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.