PBS Standards | Ensuring the Editorial Integrity of PBS Content
Skip to main content
PBS Standards
Menu
Standards Home
Editorial Standards
Funding Standards
Co-Production Policy
Articles
Case Studies
Guidance Memos
ShowcaseHandle Interview Edits with CareCheck out these four practical steps for ensuring edits align with the PBS Editorial Standards. Read the guidance >Can a Co-Producer Meet the Standards?A filmmaker's friend is willing to help create a horse racing documentary, but is there a hitch?Try the interactive scenario >Delectable Content or Product Placement?Does a program's segment about desserts cross the line when the hosts praise a particular brand of butter?Take the case study >Editorial Standards in the WildCheck out how the core principles of the standards apply to the unique beast of nature programming.Read the article >Stop AnimationStart Animation
Core Principles
The PBS Editorial Standards are the cornerstone of our commitment to serving the public interest and preserving trust. Click on each of the six core principles to learn more:
INDEPENDENCE
Content distributed by PBS must be free of undue influence from third-party funders, political interests, and other outside forces.
TRANSPARENCY
Content should be produced in a way that allows the audience to evaluate the credibility of the work and determine whether it is trustworthy.
ACCURACY
Accuracy includes more than verifying whether information is correct. Facts must be placed in sufficient context so the public is not misled.
INCLUSIVENESS
PBS strives to contribute to informed debate by presenting, over time, content that addresses a broad range of ideas and perspectives.
FAIRNESS
Producers must consider all relevant facts and perspectives and present information in a responsible manner, without favoritism.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Producers must respond to relevant inquiries about their work. They also must adhere to the highest professional standards of conduct.
More Resources
Click on the icons below to explore the following topics and resources in more detail:Best practices for applying the core principles to content intended for children. Best practices for applying the core principles to content on social media platforms. The basics about candidate appearances, defamation, fair use, and privacy law. The PBS Standards & Practices training course is availableat Public Media LearnsJournalism ethics resources for teachers are available at PBS LearningMedia
About PBS
Value PBS
Producing for PBS
Public Editor
Contact PBS
Copyright © 2025 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), all rights reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Marketing Preferences