Build-A-Bear Workshop Outpaces Nvidia, Microsoft, Oracle | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
A 27-Year-Old Toy Company Is Growing Faster Than Microsoft: 'Really Emotional, Memorable Experience'
And no, it's not Labubu. Here's why Build-A-Bear Workshop's stock has grown by more than 2,000% over the past five years.
By
Sherin Shibu
Edited by
Melissa Malamut
Sep 22, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Build-A-Bear Workshop is pulling ahead of tech giants like Nvidia and Microsoft in five-year stock growth.
The company has also recently expanded, adding 100 new stores in the past two years.
CEO Sharon Price John says the growth has to do with creating a "memorable experience" for shoppers.
Nvidia may be the most valuable company in the world, surging to a record-high $4.395 trillion market capitalization over the past few months, but when it comes to stock growth, one surprising company has it beat: Build-A-Bear Workshop.Build-A-Bear's stock grew by more than 2,000% over the past five years, making it one of the top 20 companies in the world by share growth, per The Washington Post. Company shares are up over 60% year-to-date at the time of writing. According to Build-A-Bear's earnings report for the second quarter ending August 2, total revenue hit $124.2 million, an 11% increase from the same period last year. It was the company's most profitable second quarter in its history.Build-A-Bear's stock growth beats the world's biggest tech giants, such as Nvidia (surged by over 1,300% in the past five years, with shares up over 30% year-to-date); Microsoft (stock grew by 147% across the past five years); and Oracle (stock swelled 444% across the same time period).
Related: How Labubu Outsold Barbie and Hot Wheels — and Will Help Parent Company Pop Mart Earn $4 Billion This YearAt Build-A-Bear, customers stuff a plush toy, add a toy heart, and dress the stuffed animal. The company was founded in October 1997 in Saint Louis, Missouri, and the experience in stores has remained consistent since its founding.
The company's CEO, Sharon Price John, who took over in 2013, told CNBC that the process of making a bear is "a really emotional, memorable experience that creates a tremendous amount of equity." The store's in-person experience contributes to its resilience, even as other mall stores like Claire's close hundreds of locations.Build-A-Bear Workshop in Denver, Colorado. Photo by Joe Amon/The Denver Post via Getty Images"Those strong feelings that consumers have for brands are very stretchable beyond just that one experience," John told the outlet.University of Pennsylvania Marketing Professor Americus Reed told CNBC that the "ritualistic" process of creating a stuffed animal at Build-A-Bear creates a memorable experience that is "really hard to replicate." Build-A-Bear creates a deeper connection with its customers, building a sense of loyalty, Reed explained.
Related: The Lego Resale Market Is Reportedly Thriving — And Some Sets Can Fetch Over $15,000Zach Wray, a customer whose family has hundreds of bears, told The Washington Post that the experience of creating a stuffed animal is what keeps his kids coming back to Build-A-Bear."They make it really special for the kids," Wray told the outlet.Nostalgia also plays a role in the company's growth. A recent survey released by Build-A-Bear earlier this month shows that 92% of adults still have their childhood stuffed animal, and nearly 100% say that teddy bears are for all ages. Two-fifths (40%) of Build-A-Bear's customers are adults, not kids, according to The Washington Post.
Build-A-Bear has 627 stores across 32 countries, 100 of which opened within the past two years. The company told The Washington Post that it plans to open 60 more locations this year, and that almost all of its stores in North America were profitable.Related: This Mom's Side Hustle Selling a $600 Children's Toy Became a Business Making Over $1 Million a Year: 'There Is a Lot to Love'
Nvidia may be the most valuable company in the world, surging to a record-high $4.395 trillion market capitalization over the past few months, but when it comes to stock growth, one surprising company has it beat: Build-A-Bear Workshop.Build-A-Bear's stock grew by more than 2,000% over the past five years, making it one of the top 20 companies in the world by share growth, per The Washington Post. Company shares are up over 60% year-to-date at the time of writing. According to Build-A-Bear's earnings report for the second quarter ending August 2, total revenue hit $124.2 million, an 11% increase from the same period last year. It was the company's most profitable second quarter in its history.Build-A-Bear's stock growth beats the world's biggest tech giants, such as Nvidia (surged by over 1,300% in the past five years, with shares up over 30% year-to-date); Microsoft (stock grew by 147% across the past five years); and Oracle (stock swelled 444% across the same time period).
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Sherin Shibu
Entrepreneur Staff
News Reporter
Sherin Shibu is a business news reporter at Entrepreneur.com. She previously worked for PCMag, Business Insider, The Messenger, and ZDNET as a reporter and copyeditor. Her areas of coverage encompass tech, business, strategy, finance, and even space. She is a Columbia University graduate.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Fundraising
4 Trends In Fundraising That Will Impact the Future of Philanthropy
Increasing the success of your nonprofit requires you to adapt to changes.
By
Peter Daisyme
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Science & Technology
7 AI Tools to Build a Profitable One-Person Business That Runs While You Sleep
Smart systems to help solo founders scale fast.
By
Ben Angel
Legal
The Hidden Costs of a Product Recall That Most Entrepreneurs Miss
The real cost of a recall goes far beyond refunds or fines.
By
Donald Fountain
Money & Finance
I Fell for a $1.25 Million Scam — Now MrBeast Is Helping Me Hunt Down the Scammers
I lost $1.25 million in a scam, but what I gained were lessons every entrepreneur can learn from. Learn the pitfalls and takeaways from my million-dollar mistake.
By
Erik Bergman
Cryptocurrency / Blockchain
Here's What's Slowing Blockchain Adoption for Businesses — and the Key to Moving It Forward
Build once, deploy everywhere — why cross-chain flexibility is the key to mainstream blockchain adoption.
By
Wesley Crook
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC