This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
By
Simon Batt
Published 4 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Say whatever you like about Capcom, but they make it very easy to explore some of its most famous series. For instance, if you want to explore the history of Mega Man, the company has several collections related to the different storylines and series it created over the years. One such series is the Mega Man Battle Network, which takes the familiar blue robot away from the platforming genre and puts him in an RPG. And if you want to give it a go, it's currently at its lowest price on Steam.
Mega Man Battle Network Volume 1 is just $12.79 on Steam (and so is Volume 2)
If you've never heard of Mega Man Battle Network, it's a good pickup for fans of RPGs. Many people grew up on the Battle Network series, and with Capcom compiling the games into a collection and adding it to Steam, it gives fans both new and old an excuse to dive back in. Here's how Capcom describes the game:
The Battle Network is back! Get ready to jack in to the net to face off against deadly enemy programs in electrifying grid based battles, and search the net for rare and powerful BattleChips to build the ultimate deck of special moves!
In 200X, the rapid advancement of Internet technology has created the “network age.” People have come to enjoy the benefits of network technology through portable exploration devices called “PET” and personality simulation programs called NetNavi. As the network world expands and life becomes more convenient, however, network crime is raging. Main character Lan Hikari and his NetNavi, MegaMan.EXE, join forces to confront these incidents.
The collection is divided into two parts. Part one contains Mega Man Battle Network 1, 2, and 3 Blue/White. Part two features Mega Man Battle Network 4: Red Sun/Blue Moon, Mega Man Battle Network 5: Team Protoman/Colonel, and Mega Man Battle Network 6: Cybeast Gregar/Falzar. Both collections are currently 68% off on Steam, marking their biggest discount yet, with pricing at $12.79 per collection. You have until September 29th to grab them, so be sure to pick them up before this deal goes away again. And be sure to check out the platforming Mega Man collections too, especially given how one classic Mega Man game threatened one of our writers' sanity.
RPG
Shooter
Adventure
Systems
Released
April 14, 2023
ESRB
everyone e10+
Developer(s)
Capcom
Publisher(s)
Capcom
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
4 days ago
4 reasons why I have started to look for NixOS alternatives
5 days ago
4 of the most underrated home server components
5 days ago
I tried using Linux's AntiX OS on my super old laptop and it works like a charm
5 days ago
I played these 3 wrestling games growing up and they were total jobbers to everyone
Today's best deals
Score this Cooler Master wireless mechanical keyboard for 49% off and add a splash of color to your workspace
2 hours ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
14 hours ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
macOS Tahoe is apparently breaking the Touch Bar Apple seems to have forgotten
VLANs are better than dozens of firewall rules, but here's how you can still segment your network without one
4 times when an M.2 heatsink is more than just cosmetic
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.