I Moved From an Apartment to a Boat; Love It Despite Cons - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Real Estate
I moved to Los Angeles to live on a boat. The past 2 years haven't been all smooth sailing, but life on the water is worth it.
By
Morgan Pearson
I moved from an apartment in Chicago to a boat in Los Angeles, and I love life on the water.
Morgan Pearson
2025-09-23T14:44:51Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I left my Chicago apartment for full-time boat life in Los Angeles — and I'm not looking back.
Living on a boat comes with quirks, but the ocean views and tight-knit community are worth it.
Plus, there's truly nothing like sipping my morning coffee while watching dolphins.
I'd been living in downtown Chicago for two years when I got a dreaded rent hike notice. I figured I had two options: Pay an extra couple hundred dollars a month to stay, or move to a more affordable neighborhood.
When talking to a longtime friend about my rent situation, she suggested I throw my stuff in storage and come stay on her boat for a month or two to test out life on the West Coast.Long story short, I did that, and we started dating — I didn't see it coming, either — and I've lived here ever since.
Transitioning from a downtown high-rise (with all the amenities) to a floating home was definitely an adjustment, but I love full-time boat life.Life on the water is full of unique perks
My favorite area of the boat is the back deck.
Morgan Pearson
Since moving on the boat about two years ago, I've found that my favorite place is the back deck. My girlfriend turned it into a cozy patio space where we can eat dinner, host friends, or just relax by the firepit as the sun sets.It's become the heart of our home, and I think that's one reason boat life feels so special.
Plus, we can easily paddleboard or kayak, and we even have a little dinghy we take out for dolphin-spotting over morning coffee. I never get tired of the views — or being, quite literally, steps from the ocean.
Sometimes, we like to have our morning coffee on the dinghy and look for dolphins.
Morgan Pearson
Surprisingly, boat life also turned out to be more affordable than I expected. Instead of paying traditional rent, we pay what's called a slip fee. It's a bit like renting an apartment, but our "unit" is a space in the marina where our boat is tied up.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The fee gives us access to electricity, water, and marina facilities like showers and laundry. Our monthly fee is less than $1,200, which is far less than most studio apartments (without water views) in our area.
Of course, when you add regular maintenance and the occasional repair, the overall cost can creep up. Still, for us, it's been worth it to live in Los Angeles, on the water, for a reasonable amount of money.And then there's the community. Marinas attract all kinds of people — some who live aboard full time, others who come seasonally — but in my experience, everyone looks out for each other. It's a tight-knit, welcoming environment that feels rare in a big city.However, some quirks took a while to get used to
I've gotten used to the boat's size.
Morgan Pearson
The bathroom situation was probably the biggest adjustment for me. We have a decent shower on the boat, but unfortunately, we can't use our bathroom for everything.
For example, our plumbing system can't handle solids well, so we sometimes have to use the shared marina bathroom. Thankfully, they're usually clean and empty, but I do miss the convenience of being able to fully use the bathroom inside my home.Then there's the space itself. Coming from a small studio in Chicago, I didn't struggle much with downsizing, but the boat kitchen and work areas are undeniably compact.We've made it work, especially with a spacious bedroom and good storage solutions, but it does take some creativity.
We also don't have some of the usual luxuries, such as a dishwasher or in-unit laundry, but marina facilities make it manageable.
Our boat isn't equipped with the same luxuries available in some homes and apartments, such as a dishwasher and in-unit laundry.
Morgan Pearson
And, of course, we deal with never-ending maintenance. Just in the past few months, we've replaced a shower pump, dealt with a bilge pump (the system that removes water from the lowest part of the boat) that isn't working properly, and kept up with monthly bottom cleanings to prevent the growth of algae and barnacles on the hull.There's also ongoing woodwork, such as sanding and resealing the teak, which is both time-consuming and essential to keeping the boat looking good and protected from the elements.
And yet, I don't see myself going back to 'normal' living anytime soonOnce you've had your morning coffee while spotting dolphins, it's hard to imagine anything else.I've always dreamed of living abroad, and our long-term goal is to settle somewhere in the Mediterranean, live on a boat, and sail between countries.For now, though, boat life in LA, mixed with time abroad, feels like the right balance for us — and it's teaching me that home doesn't have to be one fixed place.
Recommended video
Los Angeles
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account