About Us | Polygon
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
More Action
Sign in now
Close
About Us
The trouble with modern entertainment is choice: There’s more stuff than ever, and nearly all of it is available on your phone. So where does one start? Think of Polygon as your expert tour guide. We help our readers and viewers find their next favorite thing, learn the story behind how it came to be, and appreciate how this little piece of culture fits into the greater whole of our lives.
Founded in 2012 by journalist Christopher Grant and acquired by Valnet, Inc. in May 2025, Polygon is a trusted news source in the gaming space thanks to its legacy of original reporting, thoughtful reviews, detailed guides, entertaining videos, and a progressive approach to the gaming community. We follow that playbook across all our coverage, which has now grown to include the full breadth of our audience’s interest, from anime and tabletop games to movies and streamer culture. Today, you can find Polygon on platforms like YouTube, TikTok, and Twitch, and in the tangible world through our beautiful books Like a Hurricane: An Unofficial Oral History of Street Fighter II and 500 Years Later: An Oral History of Final Fantasy VII.
Our goal is to improve the worlds we cover, whether that’s having fun in fictional worlds, holding studios accountable in the real one, or introducing you to communities online and offline that we think you’ll love. Our work is respected across the entertainment and mainstream press around the globe, with our reporting cited by global news outlets like the New York Times and our team members regularly appearing on TV and radio outlets like MSNBC, Fox Business, NPR, and the CBC. Polygon is the only publication to produce video game coverage nominated for a National Magazine Award by the American Society of Magazine Editors.
Get in touch
Want to keep up to date on Polygon stories? Subscribe to our weekly newsletter, Patch Notes, for a curated list of what to read, watch, and play, delivered to your inbox every Friday. Follow Polygon on TikTok, YouTube, Instagram, and X.
Have a story to tell? Here’s how to pitch us. Need to get in touch for something else? You can contact us here.
Want more Polygon in the real world? Our merch store includes T-shirts, mugs, and gear.
Get to know Polygon’s staff on our masthead. Read Polygon’s editorial ethics and community guidelines to learn more about how we select and tell our stories.
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.