I tried this 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's how my buying advice changed | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
Android
I tried this 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's how my buying advice changed
If you're looking for a versatile big-screen tablet, KTC's 25-inch model has a built-in Android OS for work, fun, and entertainment.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 4:03 a.m. PT
KTC 25-inch Android Display
ZDNET's key takeaways KTC's 25-inch Android display is available for $399.Its unique form factor allows it to serve several use cases.Although the resolution and camera aren't the best, everything else is spot on. View now at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I love that Android makes it possible for companies to create devices for various scenarios. For example, you might want to have a large touchscreen display, powered by Android, in your kitchen for viewing recipes (without having to be up close and personal with the display), for the office to show presentations, or for the kids' room for games and fun. Also: This hidden Pixel camera setting makes my photos absolutely pop - here's howSuch is the case with the KTC 25-inch Portable Touchscreen Monitor. It's a full-blown Android-powered display that can be used for several purposes. It's not the most powerful tablet in the world, but that's not the point. It's large, well-built, and ready for action.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS KTC 25-inch Android Display This oversized Android tablet makes for a great addition to the home or office.
details
View at Amazon My experienceAfter unboxing the display, I attempted to power it on, only to find out the battery was depleted. I plugged it in (with the included cable) and waited for it to charge beyond 20% (required for setup). Once it was ready, I went through the setup process, which included creating a passkey with the help of my Pixel 9 Pro phone.Yeah, Google's really forcing passkeys on us at this point. Love them or leave them, they are here to stay. With the setup complete, I placed the display in my kitchen and gave it the once-over.First off, the display includes a nice built-in stand that can be used in either vertical or horizontal mode. That's a nice touch, because sometimes you might want to use it in one configuration and another time in the other. It's nice to have options.
The stand on this display is solid and versitile. Jack Wallen/ZDNETAfter I had the display up and running, I decided I was going to do something fun and install the minimal Olancher home screen launcher, just to be different. The launcher installed perfectly, and I found it to be well-suited for the tablet. In fact, I found the minimal launcher made the device perform faster, which comes as no surprise, given its lightweight nature.With that taken care of, I ran the display through the gauntlet of apps, such as YouTube, Gmail, Chrome, Keep Notes, and more. Everything performed well, and having the larger display made interacting with them even better than on a phone. Take Keep Notes, for example. Using it on the large screen in the kitchen was great for managing shopping lists and to-dos. Also: My top 6 open-source Android apps from the Google Play Store - and why that's importantI didn't bother installing any games because most of the ones I play require using both hands, and this display is far too large to hold. I could have used the included mouse, but the batteries they came with were dead. My curiosity did get the best of me, so I installed Baldur's Gate Enhanced Edition to see how well it would play.I shouldn't have been surprised that the game played smoothly and the size of the display made it far easier to enjoy than when venturing forth on a quest when using a phone or smaller tablet. Even the sound felt more immersive.This is fun.Of course, the device isn't all about fun and games. When using it as a productivity tool, it was quite nice. I would say, however, that if you want to do much in the way of typing, you'll want to purchase a Bluetooth keyboard because typing on a 25" display is not exactly efficient. Also: Google quietly confirms ChromeOS-Android merger - here's what it means for youAs far as the camera is concerned, it's fairly basic, but it does do well with Zoom and other video chat apps. The only issue you'll have to deal with is that it doesn't do well in low-light situations. Because of that, you might want to invest in a ring light or just make sure you have plenty of ambient light (natural light is your friend). As long as you don't expect high-definition images, you'll be fine. Everything else about this 25-inch Android display was all good. I felt it was a great addition to my home and was able to use it for several scenarios. In fact, while writing this review, I watched Ozzy Osbourne's Live at Budokon concert and found it to be quite good (although the resolution was nearly that of my MacBook or desktop monitors). The sound, on the other hand, was huge. Anything above 50% was far too loud for my kitchen.ZDNET's buying adviceIt boils down to this: if you need a massive Android tablet to serve multiple purposes, this $399 device is a great deal. The only caveat is that it runs Android 14, and it's unclear if the company will update it to 15. Even with that small nit to pick, the display performs very well and should please just about anyone.Also: Going off-grid? Leave your flagship at home and take this $300 Android instead. Here's whyAs long as you don't mind missing out on hi-def videos on YouTube, there's very little to disappoint here. I was thrilled to try the KTC 25-inch Android display in several rooms for several different purposes.KTC 25-inch Android display tech specsCPU - Qualcomm SM611525-inch FHD IPS panel with hardware-level blue light filtering and PWM dimming Built-in HD camera, slide-type privacy cover, and chip-level encryption8GB RAM + 128GB storageConnectivity - Type-C port, Wi-Fi 5 & Bluetooth 5.2Included remoteFeatured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's why
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
12+ laptop accessories that I recommend to both students and professionals
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use