MSI enters the US Electric Vehicle charger market with EV Life Series | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingBorderlands 4 woesAn Intel comeback?Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
USB
Anker brings beastly 14-port dock, plus new compact chargers and portable batteries to IFA
Tech Industry
Best of IFA 2025: New laptops, monitors, gaming handhelds, and more
Motherboards
MSI on track to ship 10 million motherboards in 2025 despite a reportedly cautious AI strategy
GPUs
Razer unveils Core X V2 eGPU enclosure with TB5 bandwidth
GPUs
‘USB 5.0’ connection touted on new slim eGPU with RX 7600M XT
Gift Guides and Seasonal Sales
Best Amazon Prime Day Deals Live
Gaming Monitors
MSI and Gigabyte debut new 500 Hz QD-OLED gaming monitors
Cables and Connectors
The unsung hero of my gaming PC setup: My $30 Power Tower of Destiny extension plug outlet
Gift Guides and Seasonal Sales
Best Amazon Prime Day Deals Live
GPUs
MSI's RTX 5080 Expert features a dual-fan blower-style cooler inspired by the Nvidia RTX 40-series Founders Edition
Mini PCs
This upcoming Thunderbolt 5 eGPU dock lets you mount an entire mini-PC on the side
GPUs
ASRock's $40 16-pin power cable has overheating protection designed to prevent meltdowns
GPUs
Asus's new BTF GPUs can now be used in standard systems courtesy of a detachable 1000W power connector
Handheld Gaming
AMD's Z2 Extreme flies past Intel's Lunar Lake in new gaming benchmarks
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
Tech Industry
MSI enters the US Electric Vehicle charger market with EV Life Series
News
By
Brandon Hill
published
17 September 2025
MSI expands beyond the PC industry to deliver a lineup of EV chargers for a North American audience.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: MSI)
When I think of MSI, I think of motherboards, video cards, gaming monitors, and, more recently, PC gaming handhelds. So, the thought of MSI entering the electric vehicle (EV) was a foreign concept to me. Unbeknownst to me, even as an enthusiast with two EVs, MSI has marketed EV chargers in other parts of the world for quite some time. However, the company is now ready to expand to North America with MSI's EV Life and EV Life Plus EV chargers.The EV Life Series is available in four different models: you can opt for a SAE J1772 or NACS (Tesla) connector in NEMA 14-50 (think U.S. dryer outlet) or hardwired configurations. No matter which SKU you choose, you'll receive an incredibly long 24.6-foot, IP55-rated charging cable and 14.4kW/60A that will add between 43 and 59 miles of range per hour to the average EV (think Tesla Model 3 or Hyundai Ioniq 7). If you're driving something like a Chevrolet Silverado EV with a massive 200 kWh battery, you'll probably see those numbers halved.
(Image credit: MSI)When it comes to EVs, many owners like to geek out on charging stats and electricity running costs. With that in mind, the EV Life Series has built-in Bluetooth, which, when paired with the MSI aConnect app, provides a powerful tool for monitoring your EV and setting up scheduling routines. With aConnect, you can monitor current and historical charging times, how much you're saving by using electricity over a comparable gasoline- or diesel-powered vehicle, the total cost of the electricity you've pumped into your EV, and how much carbon emissions you've saved.
You may like
Anker brings beastly 14-port dock, plus new compact chargers and portable batteries to IFA
Best of IFA 2025: New laptops, monitors, gaming handhelds, and more
MSI on track to ship 10 million motherboards in 2025 despite a reportedly cautious AI strategy
(Image credit: MSI)The EV Life Plus Series is in many ways similar to its lesser sibling. You'll find the same four connection options (NACS with NEMA 14-50 or hardwired, or SAE J1772 with NEMA 14-50 or hardwired). You also get the same 14.4KW/60A charging capabilities as on the EV Life. However, the EV Life Plus amps things up with RFID authentication support along with Wi-Fi and Ethernet connectivity. The latter two features allow you to monitor the charging progress of your vehicle from anywhere, instead of the short-range limitations of Bluetooth-only support.The EV Life Plus Series also supports the OCPP 1.6J standard, which provides a secure, industry-standard communications protocol for charging. This helps avoid vendor lock-in through proprietary standards, which is why MSI's EV chargers can work not only with Tesla vehicles, which helped popularize the NACS connector, but also with vehicles that use the SAE J1772 connector.The MSI EV Life with NACS or SAE J1772 connector is available for $449. If you want to connect to your home's grid with a NEMA 14-50 connection, the price increases to $499. The EV Life Plus starts at $549.99 for a hardwired connection with a NACS or SAE J1772 connector. You'll also pay a $50 premium for a NEMA 14-50 electrical hookup. The chargers are available directly from MSI or from Amazon. For comparison, Tesla's 11.5kW/48A Wall Connector is $420.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (1)
Brandon HillSocial Links NavigationBrandon Hill is a senior editor at Tom's Hardware. He has written about PC and Mac tech since the late 1990s with bylines at AnandTech, DailyTech, and Hot Hardware. When he is not consuming copious amounts of tech news, he can be found enjoying the NC mountains or the beach with his wife and two sons.
Read more
Anker brings beastly 14-port dock, plus new compact chargers and portable batteries to IFA
Best of IFA 2025: New laptops, monitors, gaming handhelds, and more
MSI on track to ship 10 million motherboards in 2025 despite a reportedly cautious AI strategy
Razer unveils Core X V2 eGPU enclosure with TB5 bandwidth
‘USB 5.0’ connection touted on new slim eGPU with RX 7600M XT
Best Amazon Prime Day Deals Live
Latest in Tech Industry
Modern memory is still vulnerable to Rowhammer vulnerabilities
China's largest chipmaker testing first homegrown immersion DUV litho tool
NAND and DRAM prices surge by up to 20%
$320 camera lens buyers hit with $2,000 delivery fee in tariffs fight
China bans its biggest tech companies from acquiring Nvidia chips, says report
Exploring the RTX Pro 6000D, Nvidia's China-only GPU, which is now banned from sale
Latest in News
Alibaba’s AI chip goes head-to-head with Nvidia H20 in state-backed benchmark demo
MSI enters the US Electric Vehicle charger market with EV Life Series
PlayStation 5 Digital Edition with 1TB SSD downgraded to 825GB listed at the same price
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
This upcoming Thunderbolt 5 eGPU dock lets you mount an entire mini-PC on the side
Cooler Master debuts new 3D Heatpipe tech in new coolers
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
gg83
I love how much Elon loves the number 420! He'd probably take a slight loss just to keep the price.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.