java - Migration to playframework 3.0 - Error while emitting Routes.scala - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Migration to playframework 3.0 - Error while emitting Routes.scala
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
49 times
0
I try to migrate old playframework 2.8 to 3.0.8 (jdk 11 -> jdk 21).
And when try to compile: ./sbt clean compile see this error:
[error] Error while emitting Routes.scala
[error] assertion failed: bad position: [811:784]
[error] Error while emitting Routes.scala
[error] assertion failed: ClassBType.info not yet assigned: Lcontrollers/xyz/UserController;
[warn] two warnings found
[error] two errors found
[error] (Compile / compileIncremental) Compilation failed
[error] Total time: 36 s, completed 17 Sept 2025, 21:05:07
I have no idea what is it, and where is a problem, I try to revert changes, but still can not compile.
Sometimes I see this:
[warn] This is likely due to an implementation restriction: an annotation argument cannot refer to a member of the annotated class (scala/bug#7014).
This is the ticket - https://github.com/scala/bug/issues/7014
but it does not help.
Any idea, what could be wrong, or how can I find where is a problem? Some more meaning logs?
javaplayframeworksbtplayframework-3.0
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 17 at 19:11
tostaotostao
3,06855 gold badges4444 silver badges6969 bronze badges
5
Have you tried to add -Wconf or @nowarn as it is detailed in the comment of the issue?
Gastón Schabas
–
Gastón Schabas
2025-09-19 03:27:28 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
I added this scalacOptions ++= Seq("-Wconf:msg=scala/bug#7014:s") to m build.sbt, but this does not help.
My biggest problem is, that I have no idea what could be wrong, scala version? Dependency? Some Cache? No clue :|
tostao
–
tostao
2025-09-19 07:13:22 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Go from jdk 11 to 21, and from play 2.8 to 3.0 could not be the best approach. Have you tried baby steps to be sure there si no issue upgrading dependencies? Not sure which scala version you are using, but I hope it's at least 2.13. Doing sbt clean compile should solve most of your problems, but if you think there is a cache issue, you could try to build the project in a fresh container
Gastón Schabas
–
Gastón Schabas
2025-09-19 13:45:35 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
I was able to migrate 2 services, with this I see this weird issue. And problem is that, This message does not point me what exactly is wrong (or I can not read it properly) :|
tostao
–
tostao
2025-09-19 14:10:32 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Without a minimal reproducible example is hard to guess. I suggest to start upgrading dependencies one by one without skipping versions to find at which point you get that error. If you are able to create a public git repo, it could also be useful to help you
Gastón Schabas
–
Gastón Schabas
2025-09-19 19:49:19 +00:00
Commented
yesterday
Add a comment
|
Related questions
0
SBT 0.13.11 cannot download dependencies behind a proxy
970
Error java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: GC overhead limit exceeded
1
IntelliJ not creating/importing new Play Framework project correctly
Related questions
0
SBT 0.13.11 cannot download dependencies behind a proxy
970
Error java.lang.OutOfMemoryError: GC overhead limit exceeded
1
IntelliJ not creating/importing new Play Framework project correctly
1
Scala code compiles through command-line sbt but fails when compiled through Intellij Idea - how set up Intellij to use external sbt?
1
Building a cross-build sbt project in Intellij
2
Problems compiling and running Scala projects in IntelliJ Idea
927
How to fix the Hibernate "object references an unsaved transient instance - save the transient instance before flushing" error
3
Error in Scala Compiler: java.lang.AssertionError: assertion failed (even when project dependency is specified in Eclipse)
Load 5 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
javaplayframeworksbtplayframework-3.0
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
Number of prime factors modulo residue classes
Why does temperature increase mass?
"Saying who or what did the action would be clearer": passive voice vs. active voice in a technical document/checklist?
How to directly reboot into the EFI GUI via an EFI shell?
Historical Survey: What elements in D&D can affect a character's level outside of leveling up?
How does boss dialogue change if fought at max level?
New larger artificial satellite created from natural gravity and existing space debris
How does energy abundance affect materials science?
How to block an entire page with uBlock Origin?
I need a reason for artillery to still be used despite suboptimal conditions and terrain
Swapping honey for sugar in whole wheat bread recipe
Does an NSCF job modify the SCF folder in QE?
Make all frame titles shift 22mm to the right
Historic mistake in sign of KdV equation
What was so bad about what Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk?
If a partition that has always been able to be mounted normally,suddenly cannot be mounted and enters Emergency Mode,what might be the reason?
What species of plum is this? (France, mid-September)
Interpretation of slope coefficient when a variable appears in multiple powers
How do I Lock a Car from the Outside with no Key
Any explanation for the COVID-19 market surge?
Infinite hyperbolic group contains infinite order elements
Unable to Access CPU Model Name in Debian VMWare
Analyzing test result using test statistic vs p-value?
Update docker service volume
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-java
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211