I Wish We'd Prioritized Family Over Career When Choosing Where to Live - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Parenting
My husband and I chose to live in Washington, DC, based on job opportunities. I wish we'd chosen to live closer to family.
Essay by
Jamie Davis Smith
The author and her husband decided to stay in Washington, DC, after college.
Courtesy of Jamie Davis Smith
2025-09-21T10:11:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
My husband and I met while we were in law school and living in Washington, DC.
We decided to stay there when we married because we thought we'd have more job opportunities.
I love living there, but as my kids and parents have gotten older, I wish we lived closer to family.
When my husband and I met, we were both in law school in Washington, DC. We had each moved there for school. Neither of us had any ties to the city, and before we met, neither of us expected to stay there after graduation.
Before we got married in 2002, we discussed moving back to my hometown of Philadelphia or his hometown of St. Paul, Minnesota, to be closer to family. But we quickly realized that if we left DC, our job opportunities would be limited. Since we had both spent years in higher education and incurred significant debt to earn our degrees, launching our careers was at the forefront of our minds.Though my husband and I both wanted children, we knew we wouldn't have them right away, and allowing family to take a backseat to work seemed like the right choice at the time. After we earned our diplomas, we both got jobs we liked and settled into life in DC for the long haul. But things didn't work out the way I had planned.
When we started a family, my priorities started to shiftAfter my first child was born, my priorities started to shift. My daughter was born with multiple disabilities and complex medical needs. Caring for her and working a 9-to-5 job wasn't feasible. Additionally, not knowing whether she would live until her first birthday prompted me to reevaluate how I wanted to live my life.Though I loved my job, my career was no longer the most crucial thing in my life. I wound up leaving my position as a full-time attorney and pieced together several part-time and freelance jobs I could do from home instead.
Though she loves her life in Washington, DC, the author sometimes wishes they'd chosen to be closer to family.
Courtesy of Jamie Davis Smith
It still wasn't the right time to moveMy husband was thriving in his career, and one parent having a stable job with a steady income was more important than ever with a disabled child. Moreover, by the time my daughter was born, I had established a full life in DC.
We owned a home I loved, and we had close friends who became a support system. My husband and I once again briefly considered moving to be closer to family, but it still didn't seem like the best idea for us. We decided to stay where we were settled, and my husband's career trajectory seemed much more promising.My husband and I went on to have three more children. After each child's birth, we once again discussed moving back to Philadelphia or St. Paul, but with every passing year, leaving DC seemed more difficult, especially if it meant starting over with a new job.
The author and her husband have debated moving to either Philadelphia or St. Paul after the birth of each of their children.
Courtesy of Jamie Davis Smith
As my kids and parents got older, I questioned the choice to stay in DCNow that my kids, now age 10 through 19, and my parents, now in their mid-70s, are older, I think we made a mistake in deciding to raise my children far away from any family. Since I left traditional employment just a few years after graduation, it's clear that my career would not have suffered from living somewhere without as many job opportunities. My husband may have wound up with a very different career trajectory in Philadelphia or St. Paul, but I think the trade-off would have been worth it.
I love the life we built in DC, and my children are happy. We take advantage of all the city has to offer, including a seemingly endless number of free museums and a vast national park. Still, I often think about how much they missed out on by not growing up close to cousins, grandparents, and a big extended family that loves them. The chaos of life means that visits were not nearly as frequent as I had hoped they would be. Selfishly, I also realize that my life would have been easier if I lived near family who could help when life seems overwhelming or babysit for a night out with my husband.Guilt also crept in when my father got cancer and my mother developed health challenges of her own. My parents needed help too, but leaving my four kids who needed me made frequent or extended visits impossible. My father died a few months ago, and I will always regret that I couldn't spend more time with him when he was sick. Now, my mother is older and alone, and I wish I could help her more.Though I've tried to devise a plan, it seems impossible to dismantle our lives in DC and move. However, if I could go back and do things over, I would choose being closer to family over better job opportunities.
Recommended video
Parenting
Essay
Real Estate
More
Jobs
Careers
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account