Why grocery prices are so high — and what people are doing about it : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Why grocery prices are so high — and what people are doing about it Groceries saw their biggest jump in nearly three years last month, a worrisome sign for inflation-weary shoppers. Tariffs are contributing to higher prices for imported staples like bananas and coffee.
Special Series Cost of Living
Why prices are rising, and how we're coping
Grocery prices have jumped up, and there's no relief in sight
September 19, 20255:30 AM ET
Scott Horsley
Food prices rose 3.2% in the last 12 months, outpacing overall inflation. Fifty-three percent of the people surveyed by The Associated Press and NORC this summer said rising grocery prices are a significant source of stress.
Getty Images/Emily Bogle/NPR
hide caption
toggle caption
Getty Images/Emily Bogle/NPR
NPR's series Cost of Living: The Price We Pay is examining what's driving price increases and how people are coping after years of stubborn inflation. How are higher prices changing the way you live? Fill out this form to share your story with NPR. What's the item?
Groceries How has the price changed since before the pandemic? Up 29% since February 2020, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Why have prices gone up?
The pandemic initially snarled supply chains as restaurants were shuttered and consumers suddenly had to prepare three meals at home each day. That was compounded in 2022 by Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which raised food prices around the world. Avian flu added to the more recent spike in egg prices. And now President Trump's tariffs are pushing up the price of imported foods like bananas and coffee.
Sponsor Message
Loading...
Last month saw the biggest jump in grocery prices in almost three years. For Shelia Fields, who lives in Galveston, Texas, the hunt for affordable food has almost become a full-time job.
"Like yesterday, we went to three different stores here in town. And we bought only what was a really good sale," Fields says. "So we got no meat at all. Because it's just too high."
Fields and her husband are both retired nurses, and they're worried about outliving their savings.
"We're not going hungry," she says. "We just have anxiety over this. And anxiety about our kids and our grandkids. … We've been through a lot of recessions. We've been through one in the '80s and 2008. And this is the scaredest we've ever been."
Shelia Fields and her husband are anxious about rising grocery prices, and they shop carefully for sale items. The retired nurse is worried about outliving her savings.
Shelia Fields
hide caption
toggle caption
Shelia Fields
Fields and her husband are in good company. A survey this summer by The Associated Press and NORC found the cost of groceries has become a major source of stress for just over half of all Americans — outpacing rent, health care and student debt.
What are people doing about it? Rebecca White, who works at a bank in Cincinnati, says her paycheck has not kept pace with her rising grocery bills. She's scouring the back of her cupboards for food and eating a lot of spaghetti.
Sponsor Message
"I try to stick to cheaper meals, which isn't always healthy," White says. "Sometimes I'll skip breakfast and then just have lunch and dinner so that I don't have to buy another meal."
The giant Kroger supermarket chain says the stress is apparent as shoppers make smaller, more frequent trips to the store, use more coupons, and opt for cheaper private-label products.
White says she's not optimistic about finding relief at the checkout line any time soon.
"Once prices go up, they rarely if ever come back down," she says.
The double-digit price hikes triggered by the pandemic and Russia's invasion of Ukraine came as a shock after decades of relatively stable grocery prices. And shoppers are reminded of those higher prices week after week.
"We all have to eat. And food is very personal," says David Ortega, a food economist at Michigan State University. "Grocery prices have become a hot-button political flash point over the past couple of years."
President Trump has said repeatedly that shoppers' frustration with grocery prices helped put him back in the White House.
"Groceries went through the roof. And I campaigned on that," Trump told a White House audience in April.
Despite Trump's promise to lower prices, the overall cost of groceries is higher now than when he was sworn in. The president's crackdown on illegal immigration — including targeting people who pick and process our food — could add to upward pressure on prices. Trump's tariffs are also contributing to higher prices for imported staples like bananas and coffee. "Tariffs are simply a tax on imported goods," Ortega says. "So that raises the cost, and ultimately consumers see that at the grocery store."
Coffee prices have jumped more than 20% in the last year.
And while some of that is due to weather in coffee-growing countries like Brazil and Vietnam, Trump's double-digit import taxes are not helping.
Sponsor Message
Shelia Fields stocked up on coffee when the tariffs were announced in midsummer. She's not sure what she'll do when that supply runs out.
"We have not bought coffee in a month and the prices are going up, up, up," she says with a rueful laugh. "We're down to like one cup in the morning. And I just hate to give that up."
grocery prices
inflation
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor