Apply Today - Docker-Sponsored Open Source Program
DocsGet SupportContact Sales
AI
AI
Docker for AI
Simplifying Agent Development
Docker Offload
Break free of local constraints
Docker MCP Catalog and Toolkit
Connect and manage MCP tools
Docker Model Runner
Local-first LLM inference made easy
More resources for developers
Docker Brings Compose to the Agent Era: Building AI Agents is Now Easy
Docker Accelerates Agent Development
Read more
Products
Products
Docker Desktop
Containerize your applications
Docker Hub
Discover and share container images
Docker Scout
Simplify the software supply chain
Docker Build Cloud
Speed up your image builds
Testcontainers Desktop
Local testing with real dependencies
Testcontainers Cloud
Test without limits in the cloud
Docker MCP Catalog and Toolkit
Connect and manage MCP tools
Docker Hardened Images
Ship with secure, enterprise-ready images
Docker Desktop v4.43
Find out what’s new to Docker Desktop in the latest release
Read more
Developers
Developers
Documentation
Find guides for Docker products
Getting Started
Learn the Docker basics
Resources
Search a library of helpful materials
Training
Skill up your Docker knowledge
Extensions SDK
Create and share your own extensions
Community
Connect with other Docker developers
Open Source
Explore open source projects
Preview Program
Help shape the future of Docker
Customer Stories
Get inspired with customer stories
Get the latest Docker news
More resources for developers
Introducing Docker Model Runner
A faster, simpler way to run and test AI models locally
Read more
Deliver Quickly. Build Securely. Stay Competitive.
Meet growing demands for speed and security with integrated, efficient solutions
Read more
PricingSupportBlog
Company
Company
About Us
Let us introduce ourselves
What is a Container?
Learn about containerization
Why Docker
Discover what makes us different
Trust
Find our customer trust resources
Partners
Become a Docker partner
Customer Success
Learn how you can succeed with Docker
Events
Attend live and virtual meet ups
Docker Store
Gear up with exclusive SWAG
Careers
Apply to join our team
Contact Us
We’d love to hear from you
Docker Announces SOC 2 Type 2 Attestation & ISO 27001 Certification
Learn what this means for Docker security and compliance
Read more
Search
Sign In
Get Started
Toggle menu
Docker Sponsored Open Source Program
Open source is powered by the people who build, share, and improve projects every day. At Docker, we’re proud to support these communities. Through the Docker-Sponsored Open Source (DSOS) program, we give non-commercial projects the platform, tools, and backing they need to collaborate, grow, and keep pushing innovation forward, together.
Apply here
Program Benefits
We built the Docker-Sponsored Open Source Program to help open source communities grow and succeed. Whether you’re looking to reach more developers, make your workflow easier, or remove barriers like rate limits, DSOS gives you the tools and support to keep building, collaborating, and moving your project forward.
Learn more about the benefits
Get a Verified Badge and Boost Your Project’s Visibility
Your images on Docker Hub are verified by Docker, gaining a special badge that increases trust and discoverability.
Set Up Free Autobuilds to Automate Your Image Creation
Save time with free autobuilds: automatically build images from your source code and push them to your Docker repositories.
Remove Rate Limits for Your Project’s Public Images
Neither you nor developers pulling your public images will be affected by Docker Hub’s rate limits.
Give Core Contributors a Free Docker Team Subscription
Your project’s core contributors get a free, one-year Docker Team subscription, with access to Docker Desktop, 15 concurrent autobuilds, unlimited vulnerability scans, role-based access control, audit logs, and more..
Unlock Full Collaboration and Security Features with Docker Team
Manage your project’s organization with advanced tools like unlimited teams, scoped tokens, role-based access control (RBAC), activity logs, and enhanced security features.
Eligibility Requirements
How we support Open Source
Be shared in public repositories on Docker Hub, and the source code must also be publicly accessible on its respective repository.
Meet the Open Source Initiative definition.
Be in active development on Docker Hub, which means image updates are pushed regularly within the past 6 months or dependencies are updated regularly, even if the project source code is stable.
Not having a pathway to commercialization. Your organization must not seek to make a profit through services or by charging for higher tiers. Accepting donations to sustain your efforts is permissible.
Docker-Sponsored Open Source program Terms of Agreement
Program benefits are provided only to project leads and core project committers.
Program status and benefits are valid for one year and can be renewed if your project still meets the program requirements.
You may use the program benefits solely for developing non-commercial open-source projects.
Docker licenses are for use only by project collaborators and cannot be shared with any third party.
The projects we support
Open Source Projects Proudly Supported by Docker
Browse Sponsored Projects
Be part of the Docker-Sponsored Open Source Program
Apply to DSOS Program
Browse Sponsored Projects
Products
Products Overview
Docker Desktop
Docker Hub
Docker Scout
Docker Build Cloud
Testcontainers Desktop
Testcontainers Cloud
Docker MCP Catalog and Toolkit
Docker Hardened Images
Features
Command Line Interface
IDE Extensions
Container Runtime
Docker Extensions
Trusted Open Source Content
Secure Software Supply Chain
Developers
Documentation
Getting Started
Trainings
Extensions SDK
Community
Open Source
Preview Program
Newsletter
Pricing
Personal
Pro
Team
Business
Pricing FAQ
Contact Sales
Company
About Us
What is a Container
Blog
Why Docker
Trust
Customer Success
Partners
Events
Docker System Status
Newsroom
Swag Store
Brand Guidelines
Trademark Guidelines
Careers
Contact Us
Languages
English
日本語
© 2025 Docker Inc. All rights reserved
Terms of Service
Privacy
Legal
Cookie Settings