OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN job with Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan | 12843688
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
Employer
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Location
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Salary
Academia Sinica provides competitive compensation, benefits and start-up packages.
Closing date
18 Nov 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Life Science
Job Type
Faculty Member,
Principal Investigator,
Professor
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
One tenure-track faculty position at all levels (Assistant, Associate, or Full Research Fellow) is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the Institute of Molecular Biology (IMB) at Academia Sinica (http://www.imb.sinica.edu.tw/en). IMB provides a stimulating research environment, with research spanning diverse and interconnected areas of contemporary biology, integrating molecular, structural, developmental, and systems approaches to investigate complex biological questions.
Applicants should hold a Ph.D. degree or its equivalent, along with appropriate postdoctoral research experience. The successful candidate will receive a generous multi-year start-up package, followed by long-term intramural funding. IMB features several core facilities (imaging, genomics, RNAi, electrophysiology, FACS, biophysics, bioinformatics, transgenic core, and animal facility) that provide state-of-the-art resources and key technical expertise to support the Institute’s research. Currently, several Ph.D. programs, including one that recruits international students, are formally affiliated with the Institute. English is the official language for seminars and lectures at the Institute, and proficiency in Chinese is not a prerequisite for application.
Applicants should send electronic files of their Curriculum Vitae and a description of past research accomplishments and future research plans, and should arrange for three letters of recommendation to be sent directly to Director Hwai-Jong Cheng c/o Ms. Vivi Chiang (viviwen@as.edu.tw).
The selection process will begin on Nov. 15, 2025, and will continue until the positions are filled. Further information can be obtained from Ms. Vivi Chiang at viviwen@as.edu.tw
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Tenure-track Positions at The HIT Center for Life Sciences, China
Harbin, Heilongjiang (CN)
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Hangzhou, China
Postdoctoral Research Scientist
New York City, New York (US)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software