Best Custom Windows 10 & Windows 11 Privacy Tweaked OS · GitHub
Skip to content
Search Gists
Search Gists
All gists
Back to GitHub
Sign in
Sign up
Sign in
Sign up
You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
Dismiss alert
Instantly share code, notes, and snippets.
clowieth215-crypto/custom-microsoft.md
Forked from Jeyso215/custom-microsoft.md
Last active
September 18, 2025 02:44
Show Gist options
Download ZIP
Star
1
(1)
You must be signed in to star a gist
Fork
0
(0)
You must be signed in to fork a gist
Embed
Embed
Embed this gist in your website.
Share
Copy sharable link for this gist.
Clone via HTTPS
Clone using the web URL.
Learn more about clone URLs
Clone this repository at &lt;script src=&quot;https://gist.github.com/clowieth215-crypto/b57a486dcd0779f577d3c0d47abc4f28.js&quot;&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
Save clowieth215-crypto/b57a486dcd0779f577d3c0d47abc4f28 to your computer and use it in GitHub Desktop.
Code
Revisions
2
Stars
1
Embed
Embed
Embed this gist in your website.
Share
Copy sharable link for this gist.
Clone via HTTPS
Clone using the web URL.
Learn more about clone URLs
Clone this repository at &lt;script src=&quot;https://gist.github.com/clowieth215-crypto/b57a486dcd0779f577d3c0d47abc4f28.js&quot;&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
Save clowieth215-crypto/b57a486dcd0779f577d3c0d47abc4f28 to your computer and use it in GitHub Desktop.
Download ZIP
Best Custom Windows 10 & Windows 11 Privacy Tweaked OS
Raw
custom-microsoft.md
THE VERY Best-Custom-Windows-10-11-Privacy-Tweaked-OS
A look into the best custom windows 10 and 11 privacy tweaked os for limiting the spying invasive by microsoft.
Revision (Open Source / Recommended)
Revision - a global community dedicated to free information and collaboration. They value cultural diversity and embrace open source principles. Every mind is unique and every contribution is valued.
ReviOS is a customized version of Windows with improved performance, stability, and compatibility. It aspires to re-create what Windows as an operating system should have been - easy and simple.
With the main audience being gamers, power-users and enthusiasts, we understand that performance, speed and low latency is obligatory, which is why great effort has been invested into making ReviOS a capable, efficient yet private operating system.
Being naturally light on resources, footprint and size it also comes in as a great fit for low-end systems.
Ghost Spectre (Recommended / Closed Source Toolbox)
My Personal Review:
Ghost Spectre was my first custom privacy windows 10/11 tweaked os, It was recommended by a friend and i used it for about 3-5 years without issues. If you want private, secure, and functionaility to your os still i suggest to use this.
Key Features of Ghost Spectre
FEATURES
– Improve DirectX12
– Compact Integrated + LZX (algorithm)
– Bloatware FREE!!
– Optimized Pagefile/Services/Scheduled/Search Indexer
– Privacy Optimizations & Performante mode!
– Ghost Toolbox! (Add or Remove Windows Store and Much More!)
– Support any Other Language & Keyboard
– Support UWP Games / UWP Apps (ex. Forza/GOW/etc etc)
– Updatable (can update to latest build windows 11!)
– Window update can be paused until 2077!
– With custom Icons packs / Windows Themes pack!
– GHOST CUSTOM BOOTABLE! (WPE)
– GHOST NORMAL BOOTABLE SV2
– Built-in TPM or Without TPM
REMOVE/DISABLES COMPONENT
– Removes Windows Apps and System Apps
– Removes Windows Security / Defender / Smartscreen
– Disable Remote Desktop
/ Tablet keyboard / NFC / Clipboard
/ Focus Assist – (Superlite only)
– Disable Print spooler (If you need printers please set Auto in Services)
– Removes OneDrive (can get it back using ghost toolbox)
– Disable Action Center / Notifications – (Superlite only)
– Disable Telemetry – (Superlite only)
– Removes Errors reports – (Superlite only)
– Disable UAC (Never notify)
– Removes WinSxS backup
Download can be find here
ReactOS (Open Source / Recommended)
ReactOS is a free and open source operating system written from scratch. Its design is based on Windows in the same way Linux is based on Unix, however ReactOS is not Linux. ReactOS looks and feels like Windows, is able to your run Windows software and your Windows drivers, and is familiar to Windows users.
RekOS
RekOS is a custom windows 10 image designed for Gamers for the purposes of achieving better performance and latency! It is a windows 10 image with a ton of components and functionalities that are not necessary for gaming and overall performance removed completely allowing the OS to perform at a much more optimal level. This does reduce compatibility with certain applications however most stuff related to gaming performance works completely fine as long as it's intended to work on the specific version/edition of windows 10. Features like pre-installed windows apps, ms store and functionalities like printing etc are stripped just to name a few.
This project is made by Reknotic#8966 for non-profit use.
Why Use RekOS
RekOS is a highly optimized windows image that allows user to get the most out of the hardware. With tons of performance and latency tweaks, integrated files and updates, patched security risks (spectre & meltdown) and hundereds of useless components removed making it ideal for gamers providing with max performance and insanly low latency compared to a stock windows.
Key Features of RekOS
Some of the key features that RekOS provides the users with are (in terms of performance only):
Custom Powerplan for better performance
Disabled Useless Drivers & Services
Disabled Power Saving Features
Disabled Useless Security Mitigations
Optimized Process Handling
Post Install Assets to Tweak further
App Management Utility
Now supporting all Languages & Keyboard Layouts
AtlasOS
Atlas is a modified version of Windows 10, which removes nearly all the drawbacks of Windows that negatively affect gaming performance. Atlas is also a good option to reduce system latency, network latency, input lag, and keep your system private while focusing on performance. You can learn more about Atlas on our official website.
Sources
Windows Tweaks
Customize Your Own Windows 10/11 Images
Awesome List for Windows Only
Windows Registry Tweaks
Customize Windows
Windows Gaming Focus
PowerTools for Windows 11
Awesome Windows Privacy
Copy link
Author
clowieth215-crypto
commented
Sep 18, 2025
VERY NICE
Sorry, something went wrong.
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Sign up for free
to join this conversation on GitHub.
Already have an account?
Sign in to comment
Footer
© 2025 GitHub, Inc.
Footer navigation
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Community
Docs
Contact
Manage cookies
Do not share my personal information
You can’t perform that action at this time.