Dallas ICE detention facility: shooting kills 1 detainee : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Dallas ICE detention facility: shooting kills 1 detainee Authorities are investigating a fatal shooting Wednesday at a federal immigration detention facility in Dallas. One detainee was killed in what the FBI says was an act "of targeted violence."
National
Shooting at ICE detention facility in Dallas kills 1 detainee, injures 2 others
Updated September 24, 20254:46 PM ET
Originally published September 24, 20259:17 AM ET
By
Russell Lewis
,
Sergio Martínez-Beltrán
Law enforcement and emergency personnel respond near the scene of a shooting at a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention facility in Dallas, Texas, on Wednesday. One detainee was killed and two others were wounded in the shooting.
Aric Becker/AFP via Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Aric Becker/AFP via Getty Images
DALLAS — Federal authorities say a shooting Wednesday morning at an ICE immigration detention facility was an "act of targeted violence" and "an attack" against U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Consider This from NPR
One of ICE's biggest detention facilities is plagued by problems
The Department of Homeland Security said a gunman fired at the ICE building "indiscriminately" and at a "van in the sallyport where the victims" were hit. One detainee was killed and two others were wounded. One of those hospitalized was a Mexican national, according to Mexico's foreign ministry. Authorities say the suspect died of "a self-inflicted gun shot wound." DHS lowered the death toll in an updated statement late Wednesday. Earlier, the agency said two detainees died in the shooting.
Sponsor Message
The agency released a pair of images showing a bullet hole in an exterior window of the Dallas facility and another in an interior display housing the American flag. DHS described the shooting as "an attack on ICE law enforcement." Speaking during a news conference with politicians and authorities, Joe Rothrock, the FBI special agent in Dallas, said "early evidence" suggests the suspected shooter was "anti-ICE in nature," due to writings found on bullet casings near the gunman.
On X, FBI Director Kash Patel posted a picture of five unspent bullet casings with one engraved with the words, "ANTI ICE." Patel's post said, "These despicable, politically motivated attacks against law enforcement are not a one-off. We are only miles from Prarieland Texas where just two months ago an individual ambushed a separate ICE facility targeting their officers."
Law enforcement agents look around the roof of an apartment building near the scene of a shooting at a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement office in Dallas on Wednesday.
Julio Cortez/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Julio Cortez/AP
President Trump described the deadly shooting as part of a continuum of threats and attacks on ICE, blaming "Deranged Radical Leftists" for the violence. "It has now been revealed the deranged shooter wrote "Anti-ICE" on his shell casings," Trump said in a lengthy post on social media. Trump said threats and violence against ICE "is the result of the Radical Left Democrats constantly demonizing Law Enforcement, calling for ICE to be demolished, and comparing ICE Officers to 'Nazis'" and he urged an end to the rhetoric.
Sponsor Message
Texas Gov. Greg Abbott said the attack would not change his state's strict immigration crackdown. "We will not let this cowardly attack impede our efforts to secure the border, enforce immigration law, and ensure law and order," Abbott said in a statement. Rothrock said no members of law enforcement were hurt during this attack. During the news conference, officials provided few details into the circumstances into the shooting. In an earlier statement, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said, "ICE law enforcement is facing unprecedented violence against them. It must stop."
Immigration
Trump administration rushes to rent space for immigration officers conducting raids
Mayra, a migrant from Nicaragua who has been living in the U.S. for four years, was inside the ICE facility on Wednesday for her immigration check in. She requested NPR not use her last name because of her immigration status. Around 6:20 a.m. local time, she said, "I started hearing gunshots and I got so scared because my daughter was waiting for me outside." Mayra says she heard about 20 gunshots, and that at times she could feel the bullets hitting the building. She said law enforcement inside were running around asking for help. Her daughter, Denises Robleto, said she had to take cover outside. She thought about her mom. "I feel unsafe because we are all immigrants and even though I have a legal status and I've been living in Dallas, Texas for 16 years, I've never seen anything like this," Robleto said in Spanish. Both women left Nicaragua because of the violence in their country, they told reporters."I feel there's danger everywhere, there's no security," Mayra, the mom, said. Her appointment was postponed for Thursday. Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson pleaded for people to be patient as the investigation continues. "Let's remain calm and let our law enforcement partners, our police department do their job," he said. "This is an active investigation. There are still a lot of unanswered questions."
Sponsor Message
Several officials, including Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, said "politically motivated violence" needs to stop. "Your opponents are not Nazis," Cruz said. "Divisive rhetoric has real consequences." NPR's Sergio Martínez-Beltrán reported from Dallas and Russell Lewis from Birmingham, Ala.
ICE detention
Kristi Noem
Department of Homeland Security
Dallas, TX
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor