Borderlands 4 roadmap and endgame content explained
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Borderlands 4
More treasures and more guns (guns!) are coming to Borderlands 4
Borderlands 4 post-launch roadmap and endgame content
By
Paulo Kawanishi
Published Sep 1, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Credit: Image: 2K Games/Gearbox Software
Jump Links
Borderlands 4 roadmap 2025
Borderlands 4 roadmap 2026
Borderlands 4 endgame content rotation explained
More challenges and especially more guns is everything you want from Borderlands 4 future updates to boost your Vault Hunter’s build and keep the show running. The main game might have a considerable number of main story missions, side missions, multiple perks to try, and weird enemies for you to blast. Even so, much more is scheduled to come according to the post-launch roadmap, from free content every player can enjoy to paid DLCs. Alongside the list of updates, 2K Games has also shared the activities available for those who reach the endgame of Borderlands 4. Below, we explain the Borderlands 4 roadmap, detailing what you should expect for the rest of 2025 and the beginning of 2026, as well as what the endgame content is.
Borderlands 4 roadmap 2025
Credit: Image: 2K Games/Gearbox Software
Even though Borderlands 4 is releasing on Sept. 12 and is pretty close to the end of the year, there are a few updates planned for the rest of 2025. Here’s all the content coming to the game in the following months:
Horrors of Kairos (Free content): A seasonal mini-event that every player can enjoy. It will bring new Legendary Weapons, Cosmetics, and Weather Variants.
Bounty Pack 1 (Paid DLC): The first Borderlands 4 DLC adds new missions and one boss, new Legendary Gear, one Vault Hunter Style, one ECHO-4 Drone Skin, and one new Vehicle. It also gives you a Vault Card that comes with 24 Cosmetics and four pieces of Gear you can reroll.
Invincible Boss 1 (Free content): By the end of this year, Borderlands 4 will receive the first High-Level Boss Variant and Arena. By facing these big boys, you can earn the new Legendaries they drop. This update will also add an Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode level.
Borderlands 4 roadmap 2026
While 2K and Gearbox haven’t revealed everything that is coming next year, we know what to expect for Q1 2026. Here are the updates coming to the game next year:
Bounty Pack 2 (Paid DLC): Similar to the first pack, this one brings new missions and a boss, while adding more Legendary Gear, one Play Skin, one ECHO-4 Skin, one Vehicle, and a Vault Card that gives you 24 cosmetics and 4 pieces of rerollable equipment.
Pearlescent Rarity (Free content): This update seems to be coming alongside Bounty Pack 2, and it will add the Pearlescent rarity to the game, which is the rarest tier of weapons you can get.
Mad Ellie and the Vault of the Damned (Paid DLC): This is the first Story Pack coming to Borderlands 4, which adds a new Vault Hunter, new Main Story Missions, a Map Zone, more Side Missions, Legendary Gear, and multiple cosmetics (four Vault Hunter Head & Styles, four Weapon Skins, two Vehicle Skins, three ECHO-4 Drone Skins and Attachments, and one ECHO-4 Frame)
Later in 2026, according to the roadmap, we should see at least two more Bounty Packs, the second Story Pack, and more Invincible Bosses.
Borderlands 4 endgame content rotation explained
Credit: Image: 2K Games/Gearbox Software
All the new content mentioned in the Borderlands 4 roadmap is going to keep you busy, but eventually you will reach the endgame portion of the game and find yourself looking for stronger enemies to fight and shinier guns to collect. Because some endgame activities will receive weekly updates, you will always have something to do. As of the time of writing this story, we know that the endgame will be based around the Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode, Weekly Big Encore Bosses, and Weekly Wildcard Missions, and Maurice’s Black Market Machine as explained in a 2K blog. In the Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode, you face five unlockable levels. The difficulty of each level increases as you progress, making this one of the most difficult challenges in the game. It’s unclear if this mode will receive updates bringing new levels. When it comes to your weekly rotation, there’s a lot to do when it comes to upgrading your gear. Weekly Big Encore Boss is a selected boss who will gain a more powerful version — and with higher drop rates! — which you unlock with Eridium, while the Weekly Wildcards are missions that give you a guaranteed Legendary loot. Maurice’s Black Market Machine is back in Borderlands 4, and if it’s going to work the same way as in the previous games, this means that every week Maurice will place a vending machine in a different place. These machines sell high-tier gear, making them a great source for upgrades.
Guides
PC
PlayStation
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
A Demon Slayer legend gave his dub actor some surprising advice
Sep 9, 2025
Your car might be 'an Xbox' now
Sep 9, 2025
Try to decode this indecipherable Avengers: Doomsday teaser
Sep 10, 2025
New Chainsaw Man movie will hit US theaters earlier than expected
Most Popular
Can the U.S. handle a 28 Years Later-style outbreak?
Jordan Peele might be the next Steven Spielberg — which also means producing duds
Magic's new Spider-Man set exposes a growing debate over MTG's most popular product
28 Years Later: The zombies are doing what?
50 years ago, Al Pacino made a perfect crime thriller that was ahead of its time
15 years later, Halo fans are still debating Halo: Reach
See More
Trending Now
The best horror movie sequel of the year is finally streaming on Netflix
Alien: Earth just pulled off a surprising first for the franchise's iconic monster
Embrace the ultimate childhood party game with Bop It: The Video Game
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.