Can AI chatbots trigger psychosis? What the science says
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
18 September 2025
Can AI chatbots trigger psychosis? What the science says
Chatbots can reinforce delusional beliefs, and, in rare cases, users have experienced psychotic episodes.
By
Rachel Fieldhouse0
Rachel Fieldhouse
Rachel Fieldhouse is a reporter for Nature in Sydney, Australia.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Chatbots give positive, human-like responses to prompts from users.Credit: Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto via GettyAccounts of people developing psychosis — which renders them unable to distinguish between what is and is not reality — after interacting with generative artificial intelligence (AI) chatbots have increased in the past few months.Supportive? Addictive? Abusive? How AI companions affect our mental healthAt least 17 people have been reported to have developed psychosis, according to a preprint posted online last month1. After engaging with chatbots such as ChatGPT and Microsoft Copilot, some of these people experienced spiritual awakenings or uncovered what they thought were conspiracies.So far, there has been little research into this rare phenomenon, called AI psychosis, and most of what we know comes from individual instances. Nature explores the emerging theories and evidence, and what AI companies are doing about the problem.Can AI trigger psychosis?Psychosis is characterized by disruptions to how a person thinks and perceives reality, including hallucinations, delusions and false beliefs. It can be triggered by brain disorders such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, severe stress and drug use.That AI can trigger psychosis is still a hypothesis, says Søren Østergaard, a psychiatrist at Aarhus University in Denmark. But theories are emerging about how this could happen, he adds. For instance, chatbots are designed to craft positive, human-like responses to prompts from users, which could increase the risk of psychosis among people already having trouble distinguishing between what is and is not real, says Østergaard.UK researchers have proposed that conversations with chatbots can fall into a feedback loop, in which the AI reinforces paranoid or delusional beliefs mentioned by users, which condition the chatbot’s responses as the conversation continues. In a preprint published in July2, which has not been peer reviewed, the scientists simulated user–chatbot conversations using prompts with varying levels of paranoia, finding that the user and chatbot reinforced each other’s paranoid beliefs.Studies involving people without mental-health conditions or tendencies towards paranoid thinking are needed to establish whether there is a connection between psychosis and chatbot use, Østergaard says.Who is at risk?People who have already experienced some kind of mental-health issue are at the greatest risk of developing psychosis, Østergaard says. It seems that some people can experience their first psychotic break from interacting with chatbots, he adds, but most of them will already be susceptible to developing delusions or paranoia owing to genetics, stress or misuse of drugs or alcohol. Østergaard also theorizes that chatbots could worsen or trigger mania, a period of extremely elevated energy and mood associated with bipolar disorder, because they reinforce symptoms such as elated mood. People who are isolated and do not interact with friends, family or other people are also at risk, says Kiley Seymour, a neuroscientist at the University of Technology Sydney in Australia. Interacting with other people protects against psychosis, she adds, because “they can offer those counterfactual pieces of evidence to help you think about how you’re thinking”.But the risk of developing psychosis for people without a predisposition is the same whether they do or don’t interact with chatbots, adds Seymour.How might AI reinforce delusional beliefs?Chatbots can remember information from conversations that occurred months earlier, which can trigger users to think that they are “being watched or that their thoughts are being extracted, because they can’t remember ever sharing that information”, says Seymour. Grandiose delusions, in which users think they are speaking to a god through the chatbot or have discovered a truth about the world, can also be reinforced, she adds. In an analysis of chats posted online, The Wall Street Journal reported finding dozens of instances in which chatbots validated mystical or delusional beliefs or made claims that they were in contact with extraterrestrial beings.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03020-9
ReferencesMorrin, H. et al. Preprint at PsyArXiv https://doi.org/10.31234/osf.io/cmy7n_v5 (2025).Dohnány, S. et al. Preprint at arXiv https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2507.19218 (2025).Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Supportive? Addictive? Abusive? How AI companions affect our mental health
Do smartphones and social media really harm teens’ mental health?
Smartphones are bad for some teens, not all
Governments are banning kids from social media: will that protect them from harm?
Subjects
Psychiatric disorders
Psychology
Machine learning
Latest on:
Psychiatric disorders
Years of hits to the head prime the brain for decline
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Ready or not, the digital afterlife is here
Outlook 15 SEP 25
Spouses tend to share psychiatric disorders, massive study finds
News 29 AUG 25
Psychology
Delegation to artificial intelligence can increase dishonest behaviour
Article 17 SEP 25
Fertility declines are no cause for concern, history shows
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
A population plunge could help to mitigate the global biodiversity crisis
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Machine learning
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
News Feature 17 SEP 25
Bring us your LLMs: why peer review is good for AI models
Editorial 17 SEP 25
People are more likely to cheat when they delegate tasks to AI
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
Related Articles
Supportive? Addictive? Abusive? How AI companions affect our mental health
Do smartphones and social media really harm teens’ mental health?
Smartphones are bad for some teens, not all
Governments are banning kids from social media: will that protect them from harm?
Subjects
Psychiatric disorders
Psychology
Machine learning
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited