which command not locating Homebrew packages on Mac - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
which command not locating Homebrew packages on Mac [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
5 days ago
Modified
5 days ago
Viewed
35 times
1
Closed. This question is not about programming or software development. It is not currently accepting answers.
This question does not appear to be about a specific programming problem, a software algorithm, or software tools primarily used by programmers. If you believe the question would be on-topic on another Stack Exchange site, you can leave a comment to explain where the question may be able to be answered.
Closed 5 days ago.
Improve this question
I have been using Homebrew for Mac (15.7, Intel processor) heavily in the past couple of days to install packages needed for gpaw, which is most easily installed for me using pip. One of its major dependencies, libxc, is really only accessible via brew install. I'm running into some issues installing gpaw that seem like they could be traced back to libxc. When I run "which libxc," the command isn't found. I can locate libxc in /usr/local/Cellar, but adding that sequence to PATH doesn't return the correct response for "which libxc."
I'm hoping to get this resolved before I move on to determining if this is a compiler issue or not, which seems much messier.
I had thought that it was primarily a PATH issue, and have confirmed that /usr/local/Cellar is indeed in my path. I added /usr/local to my path just for kicks but it didn't change anything.
homebrew
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 17 at 15:43
cyclopropenylidenecyclopropenylidene
1911 bronze badge
New contributor
cyclopropenylidene is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
1
Stack Overflow is for programming questions, not questions about using or configuring Unix and its utilities. Unix & Linux or Ask Different would be better places for questions like this.
Barmar
–
Barmar
2025-09-17 17:51:01 +00:00
Commented
Sep 17 at 17:51
Add a comment
|
Related questions
163
How to modify PATH for Homebrew?
6
mac upgrading native php with homebrew, not getting it to work
0
Error in running Homebrew on Mac OS X mavericks
Related questions
163
How to modify PATH for Homebrew?
6
mac upgrading native php with homebrew, not getting it to work
0
Error in running Homebrew on Mac OS X mavericks
14
Homebrew errors in Mac OS Mavericks when trying to install scala
1
Homebrew on Mac not using the edited opencv.rb file via brew edit opencv during installation
1
Get Homebrew formula install path (including version)
1
Installing node with homebrew problems mac OS
Load 4 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
homebrew
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Generalised Hermite polynomials
Sound of 'c' in 'sac' in 'Le sac est blanc.'
Connection between frame and GND on a robotic system
Map all possible choices from a set of functions onto a list of arguments
front chain ring change while keeping existing derailleur
Is the Shadow Puppets third-party spell by Kobold Press balanced?
Why was Megan Gustafson drafted so late?
What does "your own" mean in "did it not remain your own?", Acts 5:4?
Compute probability current from stochastic path integral
Is vowel length phonemic in General American?
How to have cell return a value based on the number enter in another cell
Will drywall anchors that aren't "grabbing" behind the drywall still hold a few pounds?
Removing a file from a Debian package without removing the existing file on upgrade
Understanding the Relationship Between Mean Difference and p-value in a Paired t-Test
What are the circumstances that would put an offender at risk of the death penalty in state court under Utah law?
What insurance options, if any, exist to allow an individual to transport valuable items owned by others with minimal liability?
Introduction or Description of Mahowald's Sq1, Sq2 Diagrams
What is the probe-like structure next to the static port on this Cessna 172?
Renault duster 2000 CC is doing Fuel consumption 11.6L /100 KM on average of 23 KM/Hour
Disable HDMI Output as monitor / display
Do the Matrix movies take place in our present or our future?
n white and n black balls, pairs of balls drawn one by one. Probability that each pair contains 1W & 1B.
Key change, from Ab major to E major
Can I use Heavy Weapon Mastery with an Opportunity Attack?
more hot questions
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.22.34276