Economy - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Business
Economy
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
They fled cities in the pandemic exodus, seeking a cheaper cost of living, safety, and more. Here's how it's panned out.
12 min read
An AI-driven 'jobless recovery' could hit this group of workers particularly hard
3 min read
Tariffs hit China's tech trade in America, but the rest of the world kept buying
Chinese shipments of tech products to the US plunged 70% in August compared to the fourth quarter of 2024, before the latest tariffs.
3 min read
Emily Stewart
Why cheap copycat Ozempic is still everywhere
Online pharmacies are using a loophole to continue selling cheap weight loss drugs that are modeled on Ozempic and Mounjaro, despite new FDA rules.
10 min read
Inside the schools trying to break America's college obsession
"College isn't the way of the world anymore," Superintendent Anna Sell said. She's part of the movement to change the higher education conversation.
11 min read
Missed the gold rush? Here's why some collectors start with silver
With the price of a one-ounce gold coin topping $3,700 this week, silver seems like a lower-stakes way to learn about collecting precious metals.
4 min read
80 over 80
I'm 81 and still working. It's not for the paycheck — it's my secret to aging well.
Mike Plummer is still working at REI at 81 years old. He can afford retirement but says staying employed is the secret to longevity.
6 min read
The plight of college-educated men shows where the job market is going
Men might have to pivot as the labor market gets reshaped and opportunity moves into female-dominated fields.
5 min read
Katie Notopoulos
The Amex Platinum Card's $200 annual fee increase is steep — but not as divisive as Chase Sapphire Reserve's
The Amex Platinum Card's annual fee increase hasn't stoked the online outrage seen from the Chase Sapphire Reserve's. The new benefits seem worth it.
4 min read
The new passport gold rush: Wealthy Americans flock to Latin America and Asia for citizenship
With European "golden visa" programs getting stricter and more costly, wealthy Americans wanting second passports are going in a different direction.
5 min read
Putin said he's eying higher taxes on the rich to bankroll the Ukraine war and pointed to a precedent set by the US
Russia's central bank expects the economy to expand just 1% to 2% this year, down from 4.3% in 2024.
3 min read
I'm a principal at a high school that doesn't push college. Our model was a hard sell to parents — but it paid off.
The principal of Upton High School in Wyoming, shares lessons from switching to a personalized learning model that doesn't center college.
5 min read
Dan DeFrancesco
The Fed's latest interest-rate cut wasn't a surprise, but it still had lots of intrigue
The market's unenthusiastic response could be because the cut was highly telegraphed, but there was still some drama.
6 min read
These are the 10 US cities that are being hit hardest by inflation right now
A recent study comparing monthly and over-the-past-year price increases in metropolitan areas across the US shows how inflation is affecting them.
4 min read
I'm a single dad of 3 working in tech. Remote work, strict boundaries, and a strong support system help me balance everything.
As a single dad balancing remote work and parenting three kids, my days are always full. Here's how I make sure to be there for my kids and at my job.
5 min read
Emily Stewart
Inside the sneaky rise of 'ghost tickets' flooding StubHub and SeatGeek
Ticket speculators are listing fake "ghost tickets" on StubHub and SeatGeek. Unsuspecting concertgoers and World Cup fans are getting duped.
12 min read
Gen Zers don't face college pressure at this rural high school. I was surprised at the career opportunities it opened up for them.
I thought I knew what personalized learning meant. My mindset shifted when I saw how kids learn at Upton High School.
6 min read
Powell says AI may be hurting entry-level jobs: 'Hard to say how big it is'
Jerome Powell says that while the job creation is slowing "broadly," AI is also likely affecting the job market.
2 min read
One Fed member wants to cut interest rates like crazy this year
The Fed's projections show the median member expected another half percentage point of cuts in 2025. One member called for something more ambitious.
3 min read
What the Fed's interest-rate cut means for your wallet
The Fed made its the first rate cut of the year this week. Here's what that means for savings, mortgages, and more.
3 min read
The Fed cuts interest rates by 25 basis points after disappointing job growth — and mounting political pressure
Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said the central bank will cut interest rates by a quarter point, following rising inflation and slow job growth.
4 min read
A former high school art teacher makes thousands of extra dollars a month by customizing Labubus. He says this side hustle has changed his life.
Ellis Stephens has juggled multiple side hustles over the years, but his customized, tattooed Labubus are his most lucrative yet.
5 min read
Dan DeFrancesco
How many more interest-rate cuts are coming? Here's what you should be watching in Jerome Powell's big speech.
A rate cut is coming. But what comes after that, and how the market reacts, isn't as clear.
3 min read
80 over 80
We're in our 80s and refuse to retire from our family farm. It doesn't bring us much money, but it's where our love is.
Dix Roberts, 88, and Ruth Roberts, 82, run Roberts Family Farms in Utah. Neither has any desire to retire, though they're slowing down.
7 min read
James Rodriguez
The decline of nepo homebuyers is an ominous sign for America's real estate market
The bank of mom and dad isn't what it used to be. The number of first-time homebuyers with family help is shrinking, which points to bigger problems.
11 min read
Chinese investors are retreating from record-setting gold for booming equities
China's wholesale gold demand fell to its weakest August since 2010, even as the central bank kept adding to reserves.
3 min read
The fired head of the Bureau of Labor Statistics is warning about data manipulation
Fired by Trump last month, Erika McEntarfer raised the alarm on political meddling in economic data collection.
3 min read
Gen Z is feeling the pain of Trump's student-loan debt collections restart
Some Gen Zers saw their credit scores plunge 50 points last year, and Trump's plans to overhaul student-loan repayment could make things worse.
4 min read
Dan DeFrancesco
Trump's bid to cut down on earnings reports could be bad news for one of Wall Street's key businesses
President Donald Trump's call to reduce the number of times a company reports earnings could impact Wall Street's trading businesses.
3 min read
Adidas, Walmart, Home Depot, and other major brands that say Trump's tariffs are pushing them to raise prices
Trump's tariffs have companies scrambling as they navigate cost increases. Here are the companies that have talked about hiking prices.
11 min read
The 10 most affordable states in the US in 2025 — and the 10 least affordable
US News & World Report ranked all 50 states by affordability by looking at each state's housing affordability and cost of living.
4 min read
AI's economic boost isn't showing up in GDP, and Goldman says that's a $115 billion blind spot
AI added $160 billion to the US economy, but only $45 billion appears in GDP because of how growth is measured.
3 min read
Demographers and tech leaders like Elon Musk have been warning about a baby bust for years. Western governments are taking action.
Demography experts told Business Insider that while Musk is an advocate for raising birth rates, he's not the reason governments are taking action.
6 min read
'I like not-working better': A millennial who once made $300,000 secretly juggling jobs tells us why he scaled back
A millennial software engineer who made $300k secretly working two jobs shares how he's navigated RTO — and still keeps a side hustle for extra income.
8 min read
Emily Stewart
The tierification of everything has come for Costco
Costco's new shopping hours are the latest sign of our frustrating customer reality: more fees, tiers, and chaotic pricing.
11 min read
More parents want their kids to learn at home
Declining birth rates and the growth of school vouchers are hurting public school enrollment. Homeschooling, though, is on the rise.
5 min read
The US could owe $1 trillion should the Supreme Court strike down emergency tariffs
Legal experts said that fiscal disruption shouldn't hold merit for a case to be ruled as lawful or unlawful.
4 min read
The latest challenge for Uber drivers: GPS
Some Uber drivers have received notifications recently that their accounts were deactivated because of GPS manipulation.
4 min read
O, Canada! Americans — and their businesses — miss their neighbors up north
Canadians and American border states used to go together like gravy on fried potatoes, but political tensions have halted Canadian tourism to the US.
7 min read
I run a nearly 100-year-old New Jersey diner. I won't serve avocados on my menu.
Jim Greberis co-owns Summit Diner, one of New Jersey's oldest diners still standing. He's been working there for 45 years but is unsure of its future.
4 min read
Inside the secretive world of America's AI data centers
Exclusive reporting by Business Insider reveals the true scale of America's data center explosion for the first time.
Americans are richer than ever — at least on paper
Americans' net worth hit an unprecedented $176.3 trillion in Q2, fueled by Wall Street rallies and housing market strength, according to Fed data.
2 min read
80 over 80
From 6 figures to minimum wage: America's oldest workers are taking pay cuts
Many older workers in their 80s once had large salaries, but now earn minimum wage in low-paying roles as grocery cashiers or retail salespeople.
10 min read
Tariffs are making their way into the grocery aisle, from coffee beans to eggs
A wide range of tariff-sensitive goods, especially groceries, saw price increases in August just months ahead of holiday shopping season.
2 min read
The former CEO of Goldman Sachs thinks that America is due for a crisis — and pinpoints the area of the market he's most worried about
Ex-Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein pointed to one area of the market that worries him: private credit.
4 min read
Inflation heated up as expected in August to the highest rate since January
Inflation ticked up to 2.9% in August, the highest rate since January.
3 min read
Holiday shopping is just around the corner, and so are the shipping scams
Scammers may try and take advantage of widespread confusion after the end of the de minimis exemption means duties on small parcels from over seas.
3 min read
Banking on a rate cut to make housing more affordable? Think again.
Rate cuts are probably coming, but according to Morgan Stanley, that doesn't mean that mortgage rates will fall and spur new home buying activity.
2 min read
Emily Stewart
From the Thighmaster to Peloton, all fitness fads go bust. Except one.
Working out on a treadmill is among the most popular forms of exercise in America, and it's not going anywhere anytime soon—literally.
7 min read
A new study ranks the happiest states in the US. These 10 states were ranked the lowest.
WalletHub ranked the happiest US states based on factors such as emotional and physical well-being. West Virginia and Louisiana were among the least happy.
4 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.