CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion — another $6.4 billion of AI data center capacity added | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Tech Industry
OpenAI signs contract to buy $300 billion worth of Oracle computing power over the next five years
Artificial Intelligence
AI hyperscaler buys its cryptomining partner for its AI GPUs and data center infrastructure
Artificial Intelligence
OpenAI widely thought to be Broadcom's mystery $10 billion custom AI processor customer
Tech Industry
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
Artificial Intelligence
OpenAI and Oracle ink deal to build massive Stargate data center, total project will power 2 million AI chips
Artificial Intelligence
CoreWeave to invest $6 billion in Pennsylvania AI center
Tech Industry
Sam Altman says OpenAI will own 'well over 1 million GPUs' by the end of the year
Artificial Intelligence
EU readies $30 billion investment in gigawatt AI data centers
Tech Industry
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
Tech Industry
Elon Musk says xAI will deploy 50 million H100 GPUs in the next 5 years, doubles down on goal as Grok 2.5 goes open source
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia to lease its own chips from AI startup Lambda, deal involves 18,000 GPUs over a 4-year agreement
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia AI challenger Groq announces European expansion — Helsinki data center targets AI market
Artificial Intelligence
U.S. AI boom is completely upending the electricity market
Artificial Intelligence
Meta plans multi-GW data center that's nearly the size of Manhattan
Artificial Intelligence
Amazon's $8 billion Anthropic investment rumors suggest it would rather sell AI infrastructure than compete with ChatGPT and Gemini
Tech Industry
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion — another $6.4 billion of AI data center capacity added
News
By
Bruno Ferreira
published
25 September 2025
OpenAI has its checkbook open and is writing one to everyone who can provide datacenter capacity.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: CoreWeave)
Every time a new day dawns in the world of AI, billions of dollars change hands in massive deals. The latest arrangement is by CoreWeave, signing up to provide AI datacenter capacity to OpenAI, to the tune of a cool $6.5 billion.This collaboration is the second expansion of an existing agreement. The initial deal was struck in March for $11.9 billion, and later revised in May for an additional $4 billion. Adding up today's contract, the partnership totals $22.4 billion.This is yet another aggressive expansion play on behalf of OpenAI, which has been cutting deals left, right, and center for as much computing power as it can get its proverbial hands on. Sam Altman's venture intends to build a massive datacenter infrastructure, but as fast-moving as the AI business is, presumably it'll take whatever it can rent right this second, as illustrated by today's CoreWeave deal.
You may like
OpenAI signs contract to buy $300 billion worth of Oracle computing power over the next five years
AI hyperscaler buys its cryptomining partner for its AI GPUs and data center infrastructure
OpenAI widely thought to be Broadcom's mystery $10 billion custom AI processor customer
If the CoreWeave name rings unfamiliar, it's because the company has only been making headlines fairly recently. It started out as Atlantic Crypto and invested in Ethereum mining, pivoting to renting out its GPU infrastructure to other companies. It continued to invest heavily in high-end Nvidia GPUs, a move that paid dividends around 2022, when almost every newcomer in the AI space needed the processing capacity that CoreWeave could provide.After continued expansion and investment (including from Nvidia), CoreWeave inked a $2.3 billion debt financing deal using its H100 GPUs as collateral, in a world-first move. The company was also the first to deploy Nvidia's Blackwell GB200 (NVL72) rack units. CoreWeave currently has dozens of datacenters, mainly around the U.S., plus five locations in Europe. Microsoft is still by far its largest customer, accounting for around 70% of its revenue in the June 2025 filings.That statement might be a bit puzzling, but it makes sense considering that CoreWeave's main business has been AI-specific datacenters and services almost from the ground up. This is in contrast to familiar names in the cloud computing industry like Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, IBM Cloud, Oracle, and even Microsoft's own Azure.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
OpenAI
Nvidia
Microsoft
See all comments (1)
Bruno FerreiraContributorBruno Ferreira is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. He has decades of experience with PC hardware and assorted sundries, alongside a career as a developer. He's obsessed with detail and has a tendency to ramble on the topics he loves. When not doing that, he's usually playing games, or at live music shows and festivals.
Read more
OpenAI signs contract to buy $300 billion worth of Oracle computing power over the next five years
AI hyperscaler buys its cryptomining partner for its AI GPUs and data center infrastructure
OpenAI widely thought to be Broadcom's mystery $10 billion custom AI processor customer
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
OpenAI and Oracle ink deal to build massive Stargate data center, total project will power 2 million AI chips
CoreWeave to invest $6 billion in Pennsylvania AI center
Latest in Tech Industry
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
SlimeMoldCrypt relies on gloopy living organism’s ever-changing network of tendrils for its dynamic, biological, encryption engine
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
Entire website dedicated to helping San Francisco motorists avoid parking tickets goes live
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
Latest in News
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Sony unveils first-ever wireless desktop speakers for PC gamers with planar magnetic drivers
Intel reportedly raising prices on ever-popular Raptor Lake chips
Intel taps Apple for potential investment, says report
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
vanadiel007
In a way this is looking more and more like some kind of scheme.
Sell a service with cards you lease, and someone else pays you for the cards and extra with a lease agreement.
It's almost like leasing a car and then leasing it for more to someone else, without ever owning anything besides lease agreements.
At some point this is going to come crashing down hard as in the long run this is not a sustainable business model.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.