Apple's iOS 26 with the new Liquid Glass design is now available to everyone | TechCrunch
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
LatestStartupsVentureAppleSecurityAIAppsDisrupt 2025
EventsPodcastsNewsletters
SearchSubmit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
Latest
AI
Amazon
Apps
Biotech & Health
Climate
Cloud Computing
Commerce
Crypto
Enterprise
EVs
Fintech
Fundraising
Gadgets
Gaming
Google
Government & Policy
Hardware
Instagram
Layoffs
Media & Entertainment
Meta
Microsoft
Privacy
Robotics
Security
Social
Space
Startups
TikTok
Transportation
Venture
More from TechCrunch
Staff
Events
Startup Battlefield
StrictlyVC
Newsletters
Podcasts
Videos
Partner Content
TechCrunch Brand Studio
Crunchboard
Contact Us
Image Credits:Apple
Apps
Apple’s iOS 26 with the new Liquid Glass design is now available to everyone
Ivan Mehta
10:45 AM PDT · September 15, 2025
Apple’s iOS 26 software update for iPhones is available Monday to people who have an iPhone 11, iPhone SE 2, and later. The marquee feature of iOS 26 is Apple’s Liquid Glass design, which includes elements on-screen that resembled a “glassy” look. Other features include a call screening assistant, a new gaming and preview app, in-app translation across the system, and updates to Genmoji and Image Playground apps.
The operating system update also went through a big numerical change as Apple jumped from iOS 18 to iOS 26 for two key reasons. First, it wanted to bring all operating systems — iOS, iPadOS, macOS, watchOS, tvOS, and VisionOS — in sync. And it also wanted to reflect the year number in which the majority of the people will use this update.
Liquid Glass
Liquid Glass design has been the most significant visual overhaul for iOS in years. Apple’s intention with this redesign was to take inspiration from the Vision Pro interface and apply it to all of its operating systems. The elements are meant to look like they are made of translucent glass. This resulted in challenges in terms of readability and how elements in the background look.
Image Credits:Apple
Since June, Apple has made several changes to how “glassy” the interface looks through beta releases. While the company is releasing the stable version of iOS 26 today, we might expect visual tweaks for improved readability and usability in the coming months. This visual change might take a bit of time for users to adjust, and they might not like certain elements right away.
Apple apps
The Phone app has a new unified look where your favorites are up top in a card format with recents and voicemails on the same screen. You can tap the filter button on the top right and look at these sections individually as well. (If you don’t like the new interface, Apple also gives you an option to switch to the classic look.)
In addition, iOS 26 brings a call-screening feature to iPhones, which is a personal favorite. When an unknown number calls you, the system asks for their name and the purpose of the call. Once they give this information, the system invokes the ringer and notifies you of the call. You can look at the conversation and interject at any time. Transcription of voicemail doesn’t work well for all languages, but call screening has reduced the number of calls I’ve had to pick up.
Image Credits:Apple
There’s also a holding assist for when a restaurant or a helpline places you on hold; you can use call assist to notify when an agent starts talking again.
Techcrunch event
Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025
Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Sequoia Capital, Elad Gil — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before Sept 26 to save up to $668.
Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025
Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Sequoia Capital, Elad Gil — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before Sept 26 to save up to $668.
San Francisco
|
October 27-29, 2025
REGISTER NOW
The Messages app is getting to feature party with other chat apps like WhatsApp and Telegram with backgrounds, new conversation flow, polls, text selection, photo previews, and typing indicators in groups. Apple has been working on SMS filtering for a few years now. The company said it updated its spam filtering with this release. Plus, it places messages from unknown senders in a new folder. One thing I didn’t like about this update is that it takes me a couple of taps to go to the transactions tab.
Image Credits:Apple
The games app overhaul means that you can look at the games you are playing (or have played), arcade games, challenges, and achievements in one place, along with suggestions for new titles. The app also shows you what your friends are playing.
Apple finally added Mac’s Preview app to iOS 26, which means you can edit, annotate, and sign PDFs more easily.
Meanwhile, Apple Music now has automixing for dynamic song switching, along with lyrics translation and pronunciation. What’s more, you can pin your favorite songs and playlists.
Image Credits:Apple
With iOS 26, Apple Maps lets you define preferred routes while commuting. In case your choice of route has more traffic or any incidents, Maps sends you a notification along with suggesting alternative routes. The app also lets you easily view visited places through a new places library.
The Camera app in iOS 26 adopts the Liquid Glass design with only Video and Photo options visible by default. You can scroll to the left or right to switch between different modes. Apple has placed some controls like Flash and Night mode on the top right, and you can switch them on/off with one touch. For more options like filters, styles, exposure controls, and timer, you can swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
Image Credits:Apple
If you didn’t like the previous Photos app design, the tabs are back in this version.
AI features
Unlike last year’s grand launch of Apple Intelligence, this year’s operating system is light on AI features, especially given delays in launching and rolling out features. The company is making AI-powered translation easily available in apps like Messages, FaceTime, and Phone. Currently, this feature supports English (U.K., U.S.), French (France), German, Portuguese (Brazil), and Spanish (Spain).
Image Credits:Apple
Through iOS 26, the company is also launching live translation on AirPods, including the newly launched AirPods Pro 3, AirPods Pro 2, and AirPods 4.
Also, iOS 26 updates visual intelligence to understand the content on the screen. You have to press Power + the volume down button to bring up this menu. Apple Intelligence can then suggest events to add to your calendar. You can also ask questions about the content on the screen, using Google Visual Search or ChatGPT. Apple is also releasing its own “Circle to search” called Highlight.
The most confusing part about this update is that the buttons used to bring up on-screen visual intelligence are the same as the screenshot button. Because of this, it takes an extra step to save a screenshot, and I have forgotten to save some important screenshots.
Image Credits:Apple
Apple is updating Genmoji with iOS 26 to let you merge two emojis with a text prompt and make something new. You can now add expression to people in both Genmoji and Image Playground. Update to Image Playground now allows you to modify attributes like hair and facial hair, along with new styles from ChatGPT.
Other features
You can now set different snooze times for alarms from 1 minute to 15 minutes.
The Wallet app update allows you to create a digital ID through a passport to present to TSA at the airport. Plus, the app has a revamped boarding pass screen with more info about the airport and flight.
Voice recording on iOS 26 will let you pick the input source. It also offers voice isolation and the ability to capture audio and video locally just on your side. This is handy for creators who record podcasts using video calls.
Apple is making reminders intelligent by auto-generating grocery items from a recipe on a web page. It can also surface reminders based on an email, website, or note you are looking at.
App Store now has Accessibility Nutrition Labels to indicate the presence of features, including VoiceOver, Voice Control, Larger Text, Sufficient Contrast, Reduced Motion, and captions.
Apple has updated parental control to limit communication from new phone numbers without approval and to enable age-appropriate experiences in third-party apps, and the App Store.
We have a list of tons of small but useful iOS features here. You can update to iOS 26 by going to Settings > General > Software Update and downloading the latest version.
Topics
Apple, Apps, iOS, ios 26, liquid glass
Ivan Mehta
Ivan covers global consumer tech developments at TechCrunch. He is based out of India and has previously worked at publications including Huffington Post and The Next Web.
You can contact or verify outreach from Ivan by emailing im@ivanmehta.com or via encrypted message at ivan.42 on Signal.
View Bio
October 27-29, 2025
San Francisco
Founders: land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Investors: discover your next breakout startup. Innovators: claim a front-row seat to the future. Join 10,000+ tech leaders at the epicenter of innovation. Register now and save up to $668.Regular Bird rates end September 26
Register Now
Most Popular
Google isn’t kidding around about cost cutting, even slashing its FT subscription
Connie Loizos
Meta CTO explains why the smart glasses demos failed at Meta Connect — and it wasn’t the Wi-Fi
Sarah Perez
OpenAI’s research on AI models deliberately lying is wild
Julie Bort
How AI startups are fueling Google’s booming cloud business
Maxwell Zeff
The 9 most sought-after startups from YC Demo Day
Marina Temkin
Apple’s iOS 26 with the new Liquid Glass design is now available to everyone
Ivan Mehta
Spotify will now let free users pick and play tracks
Sarah Perez
Loading the next article
Error loading the next article
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunchStaffContact UsAdvertiseCrunchboard JobsSite Map
Terms of ServicePrivacy PolicyRSS Terms of UseCode of Conduct
Meta ConnectGroqStubhubLiquid GlassVibe CodingTech LayoffsChatGPT
© 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.