Best Android Phones of 2025: Tested by Our Experts - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechMobile Phones
Best Android Phones of 2025: Tested by Our Experts
We've tested dozens of Android phones and picked a handful that you should consider buying, like the Galaxy S25, Pixel 9 and Galaxy Z Fold 7.
Our Experts
Written by
Patrick Holland
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Written by
Lisa Eadicicco
Written by
Andrew Lanxon
Article updated on August 16, 2025 at 3:33 AM PDT
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr. Expertise Apple | iPhone | iOS | Android | Samsung | Sony | Google | Motorola | Interviews | Coffee equipment | Cats Credentials Patrick's play The Cowboy is included in the Best American Short Plays 2011-12 anthology. He co-wrote and starred in the short film Baden Krunk that won the Best Wisconsin Short Film award at the Milwaukee Short Film Festival.
See full bio
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Lisa Eadicicco Former Senior Editor Lisa Eadicicco covered mobile devices. Prior to joining CNET, she served as a senior tech correspondent at Insider, reporting on Apple and the broader consumer tech industry. She was also a tech columnist for Time magazine and got her start as a staff writer for Laptop Mag and Tom's Guide. Expertise Apple | Samsung | Google | Smartphones | Smartwatches | Wearables | Fitness trackers
See full bio
Andrew Lanxon Editor at Large; Lead Photographer, Europe When he's not testing the latest phones or phone cameras, Andrew can normally be found with his own camera in hand or behind his drums or eating his stash of home-cooked food -- sometimes all at once. Expertise Smartphones, photography, iOS, Android, gaming, outdoor pursuits. Credentials Shortlisted for British Photography Awards 2022, Commended in Landscape Photographer of the Year 2022
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
iOS or Android
If your family and friends are on Apple services like iMessage and FaceTime, stick with an iPhone. If you’ve been deep on Samsung, stay on Android. Know that switching between the two has never been easier.
Size
Phones are big in general with the smallest ones having a 6.1-inch screen and large models topping out at 6.8 inches. That makes visiting a store and trying a phone out before you buy it quite important.
Cameras
Phone cameras have gotten better over the past five years. Don’t be fooled by how many cameras a phone has. More is not necessarily better.
Software support
Phone makers promise varying lengths of long-term software and security support ranging from just one year to as many as seven. These updates not only ensure you get many of the latest features but also keep your phone secure.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Every year, we test dozens of Android phones and have found the best smartphones you can buy. The best Android phones come with years of software and security updates, great cameras, a powerful processor and a long battery life. Samsung's new Galaxy Z Fold 7 makes the cut, as does Google's Pixel 9 and the 9 Pro XL. But we should warn you, there is a Made by Google event next week where we expect the Pixel 10 series to be revealed. So if you're itching for a new Pixel phone, we recommend waiting a few more days. Our Picks
Best Android phone Samsung Galaxy S25
Jump to details
$800 at Samsung
Jump to details
Best Android Phone Value Google Pixel 9A
Jump to details
$499 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best phone for Android purists Google Pixel 9
Jump to details
Buy a Google Pixel 9, get $100 store credit
$599 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best premium Android phone Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
Jump to details
$1,300 at Samsung
Jump to details
Best for productivity Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7
Jump to details
$1,950 at Samsung
Jump to details
Best S25 Ultra alternative Samsung Galaxy S25 Plus
Jump to details
$900 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Google phone Google Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL
Jump to details
$800 at T-Mobile
Jump to details
Best built flip phone Motorola Razr Ultra
Jump to details
$1,300 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Samsung flip phone Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7
Jump to details
$1,100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 4 more
MOBILE DEALS OF THE WEEK
iPhone 17 Pro Max (With Eligible Trade-In, Unlimited Plan):  $100 (save $1,100)
Samsung Galaxy S25 128GB With Unlimited Plan for $30 Per Month ($720 Upfront):  $360 (save $440)
Google Pixel 9a 128GB Unlocked Phone With Gemini (Obsidian):  $449 (save $50)
OnePlus 13R 256GB Unlocked Phone (Nebula Noir):  $550 (save $50)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Android Phones of 2025: Tested by Our Experts
What's the best Android phone?
Best Android phones of 2025
Best Android phone
Best Android Phone Value
Best phone for Android purists
Best premium Android phone
Best for productivity
Best S25 Ultra alternative
Best Google phone
Best built flip phone
Best Samsung flip phone
Best Android phones compared
Recent updates
Factors to consider when buying an Android phone
How we test phones
Other phones we tested
Android phone FAQ
What to look forward to in 2025
What's the best Android phone?The $800 Samsung Galaxy S25's battery life is amazing. That's not the only reason it's our pick for best Android phone. It gets seven years of major Android updates, and the cameras are good (there's even a 3x telephoto lens for zooming). Then there are all the AI features: Most are just OK, but Circle to Search is outstanding. Samsung tries to set the Galaxy S25 apart by leaning into what's new (AI), as well as embracing the familiar (good cameras and battery life). And we're definitely impressed. There are plenty of other excellent choices, with the Pixel 8A being another current favorite.Best Android phones of 2025
Photo Gallery 1/3
Best Android phone
Samsung Galaxy S25
Pros
Camera consistently delivers good images
Impressive battery life that last a day or more
More AI features that actually feel practical
Cons
Several gimmicky AI tools
Not many changes over the S24
The Galaxy S25's biggest flex that I noticed while testing is it shares many of the same attributes as its pricier counterparts, the S25 Plus and S25 Ultra – but it does so for several hundred dollars less. You'll find features like the AI Select tool, Audio Eraser and deeper Gemini integration across all of Samsung's S25 devices, as well as a custom Snapdragon 8 Elite processor and 12GB RAM – making the smaller phone of the bunch still seem pretty mighty. And while the Galaxy S25 might look incredibly similar to the S24 and share many of the same specs, consistency isn't so bad when it means there's a consistently good camera and great battery life. Read our full Samsung Galaxy S25 review.Why we like itHaving a baseline phone, like the Galaxy S25, that delivers many of the same perks as more expensive models, is a huge plus in my book. And given the remarkable processing power, standout camera and seamless AI integration in the Galaxy S25 lineup, it's great that I can get all those premium features for $800.Who it's best forIf you're someone who insists on buying a flagship device, the Galaxy S25 won't let you down. but if you have a device that's two years old or more, you might be enticed to tap into all the latest Galaxy AI and integrated Gemini features. Now, $800 isn't pocket change, and there are definitely other options for those who want to be more budget conscious, but if you're willing to spend a bit more, the baseline S25 can be a great all-around choice.Who shouldn’t get itYou probably don't need to upgrade if you're using last year's S24.  ... Show more
Get it now
$800 at Samsung
$780 at Amazon
$800 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.2 inchesProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 EliteCameras
50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)Colors
Navy, icy blue, mint, silver shadow, blue black, coral red, pink gold
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best Android Phone Value
Google Pixel 9A
Pros
The screen is delightfully bright
Cameras are good for $499
Gemini Live Video AI has potential to be useful
Solid build
The under-$500 price
Cons
Battery life is just OK, will get through a day
Processor is serviceable (curious about longevity)
Lacks emergency SOS satellite texting
For $499, Google's Pixel 9A truly feels like you're getting more bang for your buck. It comes with several significant upgrades from last year's Pixel 8A: a fresh design, new display, larger battery, slightly more powerful chip, increased durability and upgraded software features.But don't get me wrong -- it's not a perfect phone. There are places where Google had to compromise to keep the price under $500, like the lack of satellite connectivity for emergencies available on the $799 Pixel 9. Overall, though, I think the compromises Google made were smart and that the Pixel 9A is worth every penny. Read our Google Pixel 9A review.Why we like itThe Pixel 9A is proof that you don't need to spend more than $500 to get a great phone. It can handle all you daily tasks from scrolling social media and news feeds and swiping through TikTok videos to taking a beautiful photo and lasting a day on a single charge.Who's it best for?In theory: anybody. The Pixel 9A is for anyone who wants 95% of what a $1,000 phone can do at half the price.Who shouldn't get itAnyone who wants the absolute fastest processor or the most cutting edge cameras.  ... Show more
Get it now
$499 at Best Buy
$499 at Amazon
$499 at Google
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.3 inchesProcessor
Google Tensor G4Cameras
48-megapixel (wide), 13-megapixel (ultrawide)Colors
Peony, iris, porcelain, obsidian
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best phone for Android purists
Google Pixel 9
Pros
Beautiful design that feels durable
Fun and somewhat useful AI features
New ultrawide camera takes good photos
7 years of software updates for longevity
Cons
More expensive that previous Pixels and competitors
Doesn't feel that different from Pixel 8
There’s a lot to like about the Pixel 9, from its respectable camera to its classy new design and lengthy 7-year timeline for software updates. But Google’s phones have always shined for their clean, slick software, and that once again applies to the Pixel 9 series. Pixels are also among the first to get new software updates, making them an ideal choice for those who want to get their hands on the latest version of Android first. Aside from Android updates, Google also brings new features to Pixel phones throughout the year through updates it calls Feature Drops.The Pixel 9 comes with a few new AI tricks that you may find useful, like the ability to search for content in screenshots, generate images from scratch in the Pixel Studio app and add new objects in photos. These features aren’t must-haves, and they’re not without flaws. Plus, at a starting price of $799, the Pixel 9 has a higher bar to live up to. But the Pixel 9 feels like it belongs in that class of device. Read our full review for the Google Pixel 9.Why we like itThe Pixel 9 and Google's Gemini assistant still feel like a first step toward what the company is hoping to achieve: Making phone software more intelligent so that we can spend less time swiping, tapping, scrolling and digging. In the meantime, the Pixel 9 shines for its great camera, elegant design and clean software, just like the less AI-centric Pixels of years past.Who it's best forIf you're a Pixel fan upgrading from an older phone, like the Pixel 6 or earlier, you'll find a lot to love about the Pixel 9. But keep in mind that for the same price, Samsung's Galaxy S25 has a brighter screen and a dedicated telephoto lens for taking zoomed photos.Who shouldn't get itIf you want the absolute best cameras that Google makes, including having a dedicated telephoto lens, I'd recommend the Pixel 9 Pro.  ... Show more
Get it now
Buy a Google Pixel 9, get $100 store credit
$599 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.3 inchesProcessor
Google Tensor G4Cameras
50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 10.5 megapixel (selfie)Colors
Peony, wintergreen, porcelain, obsidian
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
James Martin/CNET
Best premium Android phone
Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra
Pros
Best screen on any phone
Versatile cameras
Most powerful phone I've tested
Good battery life
Cons
$1,300 price
Design is almost too minimal
AI features are hit-or-miss
S25/S25 Plus have similar features and cost less
Samsung's Galaxy S25 Ultra which has a lot of AI features, the best of which are interesting and the worst of which unreliable. Luckily, Samsung gets a lot of other things right on the S25 Ultra, which has a new Snapdragon 8 Elite processor, high-resolution ultrawide camera, and some sweet pro video tools that rival the iPhone 16 Pro. Samsung wisely kept all the best parts of last year's Galaxy S24 Ultra (basically the entire phone including that antireflective display) but some of its worst parts, too, like the $1,300 price tag.If you want the best screen you can find on any phone, get the S25 Ultra. If you want the most versatile phone cameras, get the S25 Ultra. If you want a stylus, get the S25 Ultra. But if your needs scale back on any of those fronts, the more affordable S25 options, or even last year's S24 Ultra, may be worth considering. Read our full Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra review.Why we like itThe reason to get the Ultra over its S25 siblings is its screen, which is truly the best I've seen on any phone, and the cameras, which are a step above what the S25 and S25 Plus have. Added video features like ability to record in Log format gets the Ultra as close as it's ever been to the iPhone in terms of professional video capture.Who it's best forIf you have a Galaxy S22 Ultra or older, the S25 Ultra will seem like a significant upgrade. It's harder to make that case for S23 Ultra owners, who, unless their phone's battery is ailing or they can score an incredible discount, should otherwise sit this one out. And for you S24 Ultra owners, you don't need this phone. Save your money and treat yourself to a nice steak dinner and a movie.Who shouldn’t get itThe Galaxy S25 Ultra's appeal is muddied by its $1,300 price. The regular Galaxy S25 has the same functionality, power and longevity, and it costs $500 less. Want a bigger screen? Consider the Galaxy S25 Plus. For the majority of people, the regular Galaxy S25 and S25 Plus will be a better fit.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,300 at Samsung
$1,075 at Walmart
$1,100 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.9 inchesProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 EliteCameras
200-megapixel (wide), 50-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto), 50-megapixel (5x telephoto), 12-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Titanium black, titanium pinkgold, titanium pinkgold, titanium jetblack, titanium gray, titanium silverblue, titanium whitesilver, titanium jadegreen
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
James Martin/CNET
Best for productivity
Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7
Pros
Thin 4.2mm design
200-megapixel main camera
Powerful Snapdragon 8 Elite processor
Durable build
Cons
Steep $2,000 price tag
Same 4,400-mAh battery as last year's Fold
25-watt wired charging
With the Galaxy Z Fold 7, Samsung has finally addressed some of the key issues with its previous book-style foldables. The impressively thin build and wider, 6.5-inch cover screen makes this feel like a standard phone when closed, and that wider 8-inch inside display is great for multitasking, with the ability to run up to three apps simultaneously. Perhaps most notably, the camera gets a major upgrade with the addition of a 200-megapixel main camera, which takes shots on par with the top-of-the-line S25 Ultra. Altogether, it’s a great choice if you want a bigger, tablet-like display without the bulk or a compromise on camera quality.Why we like itThe Z Fold 7 does a solid job combining what's great about standard slate phones and what's great about foldables. It feels wonderfully normal to hold when closed, thanks to its sleek design and lightweight build. It also packs great cameras and has an expansive main display that's 11 percent bigger than last year's Z Fold 6. Thankfully, a slimmer build doesn't force the battery to take a hit; the Z Fold 7 maintains that same 4,400-mAh battery as last year's foldable. That pales in comparison to batteries from Chinese competitors, but at least it's not a downgrade. The Z Fold 7 also packs a Snapdragon 8 Elite processor to power the many AI features you'll get onboard, from Galaxy AI photo and audio editing tools to Google's Gemini Live and Circle to Search. The phone also supports seven years of software and security updates. Who it's best forIf you're bored of standard slate phones and want something that feels a little more exciting, the Galaxy Z Fold 7 is a great choice. The slim design and wider cover screen helps it to feel as normal as possible when closed, with the added perk of an expansive main display that's great for multitasking and watching videos. The cameras are also impressive for a foldable that's so thin. Who shouldn't get itThe Z Fold 7's $2,000 price tag is perhaps its biggest caveat. Also, if you don't need a bigger display, it may not be worth the splurge. Ironically, the cover screen is so practical that you’ll rarely need to open the phone -- unless you’re watching movies or multitasking, in which case a phone like the Galaxy S25 Ultra might be a better fit.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,950 at Samsung
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
8 inches and 6.5 inchesProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyCameras
200-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (telephoto), 10-megapixel (inner screen), 10-megapixel (outer screen)Colors
Jetblack, blue shadow, silver shadow, mint
Add to compare
Celso Bulgatti/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Celso Bulgatti/CNET
Best S25 Ultra alternative
Samsung Galaxy S25 Plus
Pros
Lightning fast charging
Nice big screen
7 years of OS and security upgrades
Great performance with games, movies and animations
Cons
Battery life is a day, similar to baseline S25
Similar specs as the S25 at a higher price
Rival phones at the same price have better cameras
If the baseline Galaxy S25 appeals to you but you'd rather have a bigger screen and higher battery capacity – without upgrading all the way to the Ultra – the S25 Plus may be the phone for you. The entire S25 lineup shares many features, from AI capabilities to processing power to memory, so the Plus may be a viable choice if you're looking for something right in the middle.That said, the Plus' minimal upgrades over the baseline S25 may not justify the $200 price difference. But if a bigger phone just feels better to hold and you'd rather have a 4,900 mAh battery (over the S25's 4,000mAh one), then that $1,000 starting price might ultimately be worth every penny. Read CNET's full Samsung Galaxy S25 Plus review.Why we like itWhile the baseline S25 checks all the key boxes, the S25 Plus can simply feel like a more comfortable device to use, especially if you're a fellow member of the bigger hands club. In addition to sharing many of the same features as the pricier S25 Ultra, the S25 Plus has a higher battery capacity than the baseline model -- though in CNET's tests, there weren't any major discrepancies in how the two batteries actually performed. Still, sometimes you just want to live a little larger, and this phone can be the perfect fit.Who it's best forIf you like having a larger screen to watch movies or play games on, the S25 Plus can be a great choice. While the S25 Ultra might be a top pick for someone who wants both a bigger phone and the most premium features, the S25 Plus can be that goldilocks device that meets you right in the middle -- without you having to spend $1,300 on the Ultra.Who shouldn’t get itIf you want the absolute best in terms of cameras, don't get the S25 Plus. For $1,000 phones like the Pixel 9 Pro or iPhone 16 Pro have better cameras. Or if you can afford to buy a $1,300 phone, check out the Galaxy S25 Ultra which has an amazing set of lenses  ... Show more
Get it now
$900 at Amazon
$1,000 at Samsung
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.7 inchesProcessor
Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 EliteCameras
50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)Colors
Navy, icy blue, mint and silver shadow, blue black, coral red, pink gold
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/3
Best Google phone
Google Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL
Pros
Genuinely fun new AI skills
Sleek new design
Seven years of software updates
Cameras can take great daytime shots
Cons
Camera hardware hasn't improved much over Pixel 8 Pro
Gemini AI will eventually require a paid subscription
The Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL have a lot going for them, from their shiny new designs and long software support period. But it's the AI skills that really stand out, from the deep integration of the conversational Gemini Live, to the new Pixel Studio that creates weird and wonderful images from your text prompts.The phones aren't perfect. While the cameras are good and can take excellent photos in bright light, they're just okay in low-light and in night mode. The best AI features will require a monthly subscription (though you get the first year for free) But if you're keen to experiment with AI on your phone then the new Pixel 9 Pro range is a superb way to experience it. Read our Google Pixel 9 Pro and 9 Pro XL review.Why we like itGoogle's Pixel line of phones has gone from strength to strength and its latest model is unquestionably the best phone the company has ever made. It's not just the slick-looking design; the Pixel 9 Pro offers a superb camera system, a generous support period and a host of new AI skills making it one of the most accomplished Android phones around. The 9 Pro XL takes that further by accommodating a bright and vibrant 6.8-inch display.Who it's best forIt's a great phone for those of you looking for an elegant everyday Android phone. The interface is easy to navigate and the camera takes great photos with almost no effort on your part. If you feel overwhelmed by the plethora of settings and menus on other Android flagships, Google's Pixel 9 Pro is the way to go. If playing mobile games or watching videos on the go is a priority, opt for the larger Pixel 9 Pro XL.Who shouldn't get itIf you don't need the best cameras Google makes, consider the regular Pixel 9. I do like the fit and finish better on the 9 Pro, but it starts at $999.  ... Show more
Get it now
$800 at T-Mobile
$799 at Google
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.3 inches or 6.8 inchesProcessor
Google Tensor G4Cameras
50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto), 42-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Porcelain, rose quartz, obsidian, hazel
Add to compare
Celso Bulgatti/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Moto AI is a hub for integrated services like Perplexity, Gemini and Copilot. Celso Bulgatti/CNET
Best built flip phone
Motorola Razr Ultra
Pros
Robust design
Bright high resolution inner screen
Battery life should last you a day or more
It's so damn fun to use
Cons
Cameras take decent photos but suffer from motion blur
Only three years of major OS updates
Gets warm playing games and using the camera frequently
The Motorola Razr Ultra is a beefed-up version of last year's Razr Plus, which won a CNET Editor's Choice Award. It's as if the Razr Plus hired a trainer and nutritionist and then got absolutely ripped -- warranting its name: Ultra. After testing, I've come to adore the Razr Ultra. It does all the "normal" non-folding phone things I want, and offers me a truly unique experience thanks to its cover screen. I feel like the coolest kid in the coffee shop when Google Pay-ing for my cortado with my Razr Ultra closed. Read our Motorola Razr Ultra review.But in taking nearly every aspect of the phone to the extreme, Motorola lost one of the most important parts of recent Razrs: the amazing value. The catch for all this ultra-ness: the Motorola Razr Ultra costs $1,300.Why we like itThis is the best built foldable flip phone I've ever used. Motorola took the best parts of the Razr Plus and improved nearly everything else. The battery life is outstanding and easily lasts a day on a single charge and can get you mostly through a second day even. The displays are brighter. The main 7-inch foldable display is larger and has more resolution than the Razr Plus and the cameras are improved. The fabric backing is delightful.Who's it best forSomeone who wants a fun, unique an robust foldable phone. You're willing to pay top-dollar to get the best processor, battery, design and cameras Motorola has ever made.Who shouldn't get itIf you're unsure of foldables, this might not be the best fit. If you find yourself in places with sand, dirt and other fine particles, the Razr Ultra (like all foldable phones) isn't worth the risk. The Razr Ultra has the same class-leading IP-rating for dust and water resistance, but the dust resistance is only for particles 1-mm or larger.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,300 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
7 inches and 4 inches (cover)Processor
Snapdragon 8 EliteCameras
50-megapixel (wide), 50-megapixel (ultrawide) , 50-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Pantone: Scarab, mountain trail, cabaret, rio red
Add to compare
James Martin/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
James Martin/CNET
Best Samsung flip phone
Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 7
Pros
The 6.9-inch screen is immersive, with lovely colors and contrast
The 4.1-inch screen looks incredible
It's durable and survived a drop onto concrete
One UI 8 (Android 16) runs wonderfully
$1,100 is still a lot, but Samsung gives the phone more value than the Flip 6
Cons
Gets warm when recording videos and playing games
Battery life is the same as the Flip 6 despite a bigger battery
Cover screen software has room to grow
When I first got my hands on Samsung's new Galaxy Z Flip 7, I was delighted to discover that it has a smaller crease, larger cover screen, thinner design and bigger battery compared to last year's Galaxy Z Flip 6. But as I tested the new clamshell phone, I became enthralled by its inner screen. At 6.9 inches, this is the biggest screen on any Samsung phone aside from the Galaxy Z Fold 7, which has an 8-inch foldable display. The Z Flip 7's large screen size makes content feel more immersive and colors look lovely and vivid. This led to epic TikTok and Instagram sessions, watching widescreen films such as A Working Man and Back to the Future, as well as jumping back and forth between two apps stacked vertically on the screen thanks to One UI 8's 90:10 split tool.Every time I open the Flip 7, I'm consistently dumbfounded by how such a large display can unfurl from something about the size of a makeup compact. And when it's closed, there's a 4.1-inch cover screen that's fantastic in its own ways, with new clever animations for when you're recording a video, charging the phone or taking a selfie, all efficiently using the extra display real estate. In terms of functionality, though, the cover screen's software is about the same as the 3.4-inch one on the Flip 6.The Flip 7 impressed me in nearly every way but one: its battery life. It has a larger battery than the Flip 6, but it doesn't last any longer in daily use. It did consistently get me through a day on a single charge, often having 15 to 20% left, but there were also a few days where it needed an early evening top-off.Why we like itThe Galaxy Z Flip 7 is the most fully realized version of Samsung's ideal of a flip phone since the launch of the original Galaxy Z Flip in 2020. The Flip 7's appeal is simple: It's a thin phone with a big, bold screen that folds in half into a coaster-sized square. The larger cover screen and inner screen make content more immersive. It's design is thin (for a clamshell foldable) and comfortable to hold. Plus you get twice the storage this year compared to last.Who is it best forIf you've been tempted by a clamshell-style foldable, you should definitely consider the Flip 7. If you have a Galaxy Z Flip 4 or older, the Flip 7 will be an upgrade in every way. It's harder to make that same recommendation for Flip 5 owners unless your phone is showing its age. And if you have a Galaxy Z Flip 6, you can sit this one out unless you really want those larger screens. Who shouldn’t get itIf you spend a ton of time around dirt or sand, this phone isn't for you.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,100 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Screen size
6.9 inches and 4.1 inches (cover)Processor
Samsung Exynos 2500Cameras
50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (selfie)Colors
Blue shadow, jetblack, coralred, mint
Add to compareBest Android phones compared
ProductSamsung Galaxy S25Samsung Galaxy S25 PlusSamsung Galaxy S25 UltraGoogle Pixel 9Google Pixel 9 ProGoogle Pixel 9 Pro XLMoto G Power 5G (2024)Motorola Razr Plus (2024)Samsung Galaxy Flip 6Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 6 Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.2-inch AMOLED; 2,340x1,080 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.7-inch AMOLED; 3,120x1,440 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.8-inch AMOLED; 3,120x1,440 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,424x1,080 pixels; 60-120 Hz variable refresh rate6.3-inch LTPO OLED; 2,856x1,280 pixels; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.8-inch LTPO OLED; 2,992x1,344 pixels; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.7-inch LCD; 2,400 x 1,080 pixels, 60-120Hz refresh rate4-inch pOLED; 1,272 x 1,080 pixels; 1-165Hz variable refresh rate; 6.9-inch pOLED; 2,640 x 1,080 pixels, 1-165Hz variable refresh rate3.4-inch AMOLED; 720 x 748 pixels; 60Hz refresh rate; 6.7-inch AMOLED; 2,640 x 1,080 pixels; 1-120Hz refresh rate6.3-inch AMOLED; 2,376x968 pixels; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate; 7.6-inch AMOLED; 2,160x1,856 pixels;1-120Hz variable refresh ratePixel density 416 ppi509 ppi501 ppi422 ppi495 ppi486 ppi391 ppiCover: 417 ppi; Internal: 413 ppiCover: 306 ppi; Internal: 425 ppiCover: 410 ppi; Internal: 374 ppiDimensions (inches) 5.78 x 2.78 x 0.28 in.6.24 x 2.98 x 0.29 in.6.41 x 3.06 x 0.32 in.6x2.8x0.3 inches6x2.8x0.3 inches6.4x3x0.3 inches6.6 x 3 x 0.3 in.Open: 6.75 x 2.91 x 0.28 in Closed: 3.47 x 2.91 x 0.6 inOpen: 6.5 x 2.83 x 0.27 in Closed: 3.35 x 2.83 x 0.59 inOpen: 6.04x5.21 x0.22 in; Closed: 6.04x2.68x0.48 inDimensions (millimeters) 146.9 x 70.5 x 7.2 mm158.4 x 75.8 x 7.3 mm162.8 x 77.6 x 8.2 mm152.8x72x8.5 mm152.8x72x8.5 mm162.8x76.6x8.5 mm167.2 x 76.4 x 8.5mmOpen: 171.42 x 74 x 7.09mm Closed: 88.09 x 74 x 15.32mmOpen: 165.1 x 71.9 x 6.9mm Closed: 85.1 x 71.9 x 14.9mmOpen: 153.5x132.5x5.6mm; Closed: 153.5x68.1x12.1mmWeight (grams, ounces) 162g (5.71 oz.)190g (6.70 oz.)218g (7.69 oz.)198g (7 oz.)199g (7 oz.)221g (7.8 oz)201g (7.09 oz.)189g (6.67 oz)187g (6.6 oz)239g (8.43 oz)Mobile software Android 15Android 15Android 15Android 14Android 14Android 14Android 14Android 14Android 14Android 14Camera 50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)200-megapixel (wide), 50-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto), 50-megapixel (5x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 48-megapixel (5x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 8-megapixel (ultrawide)50-megapixel (wide) 50-megapixel (2x telephoto)50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide)50-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide), 10-megapixel (3x telephoto)Front-facing camera 12-megapixel12-megapixel12-megapixel10.5-megapixel42-megapixel42-megapixel16-megapixel32-megapixel10-megapixel4-megapixel (inner screen under-display); 10-megapixel (cover screen)Video capture 8K8K8K4K4K4K1,080p4KTBD8KProcessor Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyQualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyQualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite for GalaxyGoogle Tensor G4Google Tensor G4Google Tensor G4Mediatek Dimensity 7020Snapdragon 8S Gen 3Snapdragon 8 Gen 3Snapdragon 8 Gen 3RAM + storage 12GB RAM + 128GB, 256GB12GB RAM + 256GB, 512GB12GB RAM + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB12GB RAM + 128GB, 256GB16GB + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB16GB + 128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB8GB RAM + 128GB12GB + 256GB12GB + 256GB, 512GB12GB + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBExpandable storage NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneUp to 1TBNoneNoneNoneBattery 4,000 mAh4,900 mAh5,000 mAh4,700 mAh4,700 mAh5,060 mAh5,000 mAh4,000 mAh4,000 mAh4,400 mAhFingerprint sensor Under displayUnder displayUnder displayUnder displayUnder displayUnder displaySideSideSideSideConnector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneNoneNoneYesNoneNoneNoneUS starting price $800 (128GB)$1,000 (256GB)$1,300 (256GB)$799 (128GB)$999 (128GB)$1,099 (128GB)$300 (128GB)$1,000 (256GB)$1,100 (256GB)$1,900 (256GB)
Recent updates
In July 2025, we added the Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 7 and Galaxy Z Flip 7 to our list. The Fold 7 replaces last year's Fold 6 and comes with a completely new design that makes it thinner, lighter and feel more like a "regular phone." The Flip 7 is the best-built foldable flip phone we tested from Samsung. The thinner design and bigger displays are the headline features. Factors to consider when buying an Android phone
Look at last year's phones: Companies typically keep previous models around at a discounted price. For example, while you can buy the $699 Pixel 8 or $999 Pixel 8 Pro for less than the current Pixel 9 equivalents.Get more for less with cheap phones: For a fraction of the cost, you can get a solid phone that does almost everything a pricier flagship phone can do. The Google Pixel 8A packs a good camera and is frequently discounted to under $400.Check your Android type: Some phones, like Google's Pixel series, run a stock version of Android. Others, like Samsung's Galaxy phones, have their own software (OneUI) on top of Android. Each type has its own appeal and drawbacks. If you've been rocking a Samsung phone for years, you'll likely still be more at home on a new Galaxy phone.Be ready for Cyber Monday sales: The holidays usually bring big discounts and sales, even on phones.Test your phone: It's definitely worth going to a store and trying out a phone before you shell out hundreds of dollars for it.Find peace of mind with a case: You spent all this time choosing a phone, now protect it from damage with a case. How we test phones
We test every aspect of a new phone from the battery and processor to the cameras. John Kim/CNETWe test every phone in real-world scenarios focusing on its features, design, performance, cameras, battery life and overall value. We document our findings in an initial review that is periodically updated when there are new software updates or to compare against new phones from phones from competitors like Apple, Samsung, Google and OnePlus.PhotographyPhotography is a major focus for most phones these days, so we take pictures and videos of various subjects in a variety of settings and lighting scenarios. We try out any new camera modes such as the 4K 120fps slow motion mode that debuted on the iPhone 16 Pro or the Add Me photo tool that launched with the Google Pixel 9 series.Battery lifeBattery testing is conducted in a variety of ways. We assess how long a phone lasts during a typical day of use, and note how it performs during more focused sessions of video calls, media streaming and gaming. We also conduct a video playback test, which isn't always included in the initial review and is added later in an update.
The Galaxy Z Flip 5 largely has the same camera hardware as the Z Flip 4. But the new chip brings some image processing improvements. Lisa Eadicicco/CNETPerformanceWe use benchmarking apps to measure the performance, alongside our own anecdotal experiences using the phone for our review. Of particular note are how graphics and animations look. Are they smooth? Or do they lag or stutter? We also look at how quickly the phone switches between horizontal and vertical orientations and how fast the camera app opens and is ready to take a photo.
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNETWe perform processor-heavy tasks like editing photos, exporting videos and playing games. We evaluate whether a newer version of a particular phone includes enough features to make it worth upgrading from older models.Read more: How We Test Phones Other phones we tested
The Galaxy S24 FE does a decent job taking photos, but the more expensive Galaxy S24 uses its more powerful processor to enhance them. Numi Prasarn/CNETSamsung's $650 Galaxy S24 FE is such a comfort to use that at moments our reviewer, Mike Sorrentino, felt like he was testing a scaled-back version of the $1,000 Galaxy S24 Plus. The S24 FE's large 6.7-inch 120Hz refresh-rate display made it easy for me to enjoy streaming shows, playing games and taking video calls throughout the day. And it includes nearly every software perk from the more expensive Galaxy S24 line. Read our full review of the Samsung Galaxy S24 FE.The OnePlus 13 is the first true flagship phone of 2025 and there's plenty to like. From its powerful performance to its fast charging and vibrant display, it has much of what we expect from a top-end phone right now. It looks good too, has great waterproofing, a scattering of new AI skills and a reasonable six years of security support. But while accomplished in some respects, the OnePlus 13 feels more like a "pretty good" 2024 phone, rather than kicking off a new year of tech with any kind of fanfare. Read our OnePlus 13 review. Android phone FAQ
Which Android phone has the best camera?
The $999 Pixel 9 Pro and the $1,300 Galaxy S25 Ultra (for zooming).
Show more
What are the best brands for Android phones?
The best Android phone makers include Samsung, Google, Xiaomi, OnePlus, Motorola and Nothing.
Show more
How reliable is an Android phone?
Android phones come in all shapes and sizes. Prices range from just a couple hundred dollars for a basic smartphone to $1,800 for state-of-the-art foldable phones. All the phones on this list are durable, have an IP rating for water and dust resistance and years of software support.
Show more
How long does an Android phone last?
Every phone on this list varies in how many years of software support you get and how long you can extend the warranty, but most should last you a few years if not more.
Show more
What to look forward to in 2025
Samsung teased the Galaxy S25 Edge at its January Galaxy Unpacked event. Not much is known about the phone aside from it being more slim than the regular Galaxy S25. Here's everything you need to know about the Samsung Galaxy S25 Edge. Google is expected to release the Pixel 10 series later this year.
About the Author
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland Managing Editor
Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr.
Read full bio
Also written by
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology ReporterAlso written by
Lisa Eadicicco Former Senior EditorAlso written by
Andrew Lanxon Editor at Large; Lead Photographer, Europe
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.