How much RAM does your Linux PC really need in 2025? I did the math so you don't have to | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Linux
How much RAM does your Linux PC really need in 2025? I did the math so you don't have to
Forget the bare minimum - here's how much RAM you really need to unlock your Linux system's full potential and keep it running smoothly.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 12:09 p.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
davidf/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysRAM is a crucial component for a smooth PC experience.Linux doesn't require as much RAM as Windows.More is always better.I'm not going to start this with a "back in the day" because it's too easy and obvious. Besides, it's time to live in the now, and today's rules and needs are not the same as they were 10, 20, or 30 years ago.Modern Linux is powerful, flexible, stable, and secure. With the exception of some of the more lightweight Linux distributions, it's also far more resource-dependent (just like all modern operating systems).
Also: 5 things to consider before leaping from one Linux distribution to anotherConsider this: The minimum system requirements for Ubuntu Desktop today include just 4GB of RAM. I've run Ubuntu on a virtual machine with only 3GB of RAM. Although those Ubuntu virtual machines are used only for testing purposes, the 3GB of RAM does pretty well. But I would never suggest you should get by with such a small amount.
Why is RAM so important?
Let's first answer the question of why RAM is so important. RAM acts as a fast, temporary storage area for data that the computer is actively using. Essentially, your OS stores data in RAM because it's much faster than your local storage.
Also: Linux desktop frozen? My 5 go-to tricks to try - before forcing a hard rebootRAM is crucial for speed and responsiveness, multitasking, better performance for demanding tasks, a smooth user experience, and future-proofing your computer. Without RAM, your computer would behave poorly (or not at all).
Doubling the minimum amount of RAM
But what happens if you double that minimum system requirement? Instead of 4GB of RAM, you add 8GB. Sounds like it should work, right? It would; however, you would soon run into trouble with Ubuntu (or any modern, non-lightweight Linux desktop). Those problems could include:
Limited tabs available for your browser: Open 10+ tabs in any browser, and it could cause problems with only 8GB. Of course, that depends on the sites in the tabs, but as a general rule, the less RAM you have, the fewer tabs you can open.Gaming wouldn't be an option.You wouldn't be able to use a RAM drive for temporary files and thumbnails. A ramdrive helps reduce wear on SSDs.You wouldn't be able to use virtual machines.You wouldn't be able to develop with the machine (especially given how resource-intensive some IDEs are).Editing and rendering videos would be problematic.Editing and creating larger, more complex images in GIMP would cause a slowdown.Also: 7 things every Linux beginner should know before downloading their first distroYou see where I'm going with this? 8GB of RAM would be fine for limited usage. You could use your browser, as long as you don't open too many tabs; you could use an office suite, email, terminal, and similar apps. Once you move away from such common, simple tasks, things get very tricky with 8GB of RAM.
Double the double
What if we move to 16GB of RAM, which has long been considered the sweet spot? Things are going to work much better. In fact, with 16GB of RAM, most of the problems with 8GB go away, except for one -- the ramdrive. The good news is that most users (especially those new to Linux) aren't going to bother with a ramdrive.
Also: My 10 favorite Linux distributions of all time, rankedWith 16GB of RAM, you can open far more tabs in your browser, do some gaming, use virtual machines, develop, and create video and images. I will say this, however: Rendering videos with 16GB of RAM will mean you won't be able to do anything else until the process is complete.
Double the doubled double
What if we go with 32GB of RAM? At this point, everything smooths out, you can play even more demanding games (especially if you have a dedicated GPU), render videos while multitasking, and have better luck with virtual machines. You could employ a RAM drive and add as much eye candy to the desktop as you like.
With all of that said, what is the ideal amount of RAM for Linux today? In my opinion, that depends on your task. Let me break it down.
If you're using Linux for web browsing (with limited tabs), writing and editing documents, reading and sending email, chatting, and have no interest in gaming, 8GB will be OK.If you tend to have a lot of browser tabs open, want to do the same tasks you'd do with 8GB of RAM, want to do some light development, and want to do a bit of gaming and virtual machines, I would suggest 16GB of RAM.If you want to do all of that, play more serious games, and develop larger projects, go with 32GB.If you really want to future-proof your system (meaning you won't need to upgrade it for a long time), go with the maximum amount your system supports (which is often 64GB).In the end, the more RAM the better. The way I decide on how much RAM I need is to figure out (from the above list) my minimum amount and then double it. For what I do on my Linux system (which is a ton of tabs, editing big images with GIMP, a lot of virtual machines, and the usual productivity work), I need at least 32GB of RAM. If you double the amount of RAM you think you'll need, you'll find your PC performs much better for a longer period of time.
Also: You can try Linux without ditching Windows first - here's howAlthough Linux can perform with a limited amount of RAM, you could easily get frustrated as the system slows under load. And with the way today's websites are created, they place a higher demand on your system. You certainly don't want to open one more tab, only to find it brings your computer to a halt.
Open Source
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
5 of my favorite Linux distros ready to use out of the box - no setup required
How much RAM do you really need in 2025? I broke it down for Mac and Windows users
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use