wordpress - RankMath Sitemap added successfully to Google Search Console, But not Fetching Child Sitemaps - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
RankMath Sitemap added successfully to Google Search Console, But not Fetching Child Sitemaps [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
25 times
-4
Closed. This question is not about programming or software development. It is not currently accepting answers.
This question does not appear to be about a specific programming problem, a software algorithm, or software tools primarily used by programmers. If you believe the question would be on-topic on another Stack Exchange site, you can leave a comment to explain where the question may be able to be answered.
Closed 3 days ago.
Improve this question
I have added the sitemap generated using RankMath SEO for my wordpress website. It shows SUCCESS status in Google Search Console, But not fetching the Child Sitemaps, What's Wrong with it? Why its not fetching child sitemap.
https://taazabeat.online/sitemap_index.xml
Direct when i access this url it shows child sitemap in it, But on Google Search Console its not showing Child Sitemap. Also getting the error "NO REFERRING SITEMAPS" when i request to index any page of my website to Google Search Console
enter image description here
wordpresswordpress-themingseosearch-enginegoogle-search-console
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 14 at 12:28
Sumeet DobriyalSumeet Dobriyal
1
Add a comment
|
Related questions
0
Unexpected Meta Descriptions in Google Search Results and Sitemap Errors in Google Search Console
0
Error after submitted sitemap on Google Search console status show couldn't fetch (HTTP error 403)
2
Google Search Console not finding all Sitemaps within Sitemap Index. How to fix?
Related questions
0
Unexpected Meta Descriptions in Google Search Results and Sitemap Errors in Google Search Console
0
Error after submitted sitemap on Google Search console status show couldn't fetch (HTTP error 403)
2
Google Search Console not finding all Sitemaps within Sitemap Index. How to fix?
0
Screenshot showing page all broken in Google Search Console by inspect
0
Show sitemap for my website in google search result
Load 2 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
wordpresswordpress-themingseosearch-enginegoogle-search-console
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Featured on Meta
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Looking for 70s to early 90s Sci Fi book where neck tattoo indicates social status
Why do “inconsolable” and “uncomfortable” have such different meanings?
What is a Pasted Word™?
How to remove the empty star in Files (Nautilus)?
Why is my dryer tripping its breaker after a period of use?
A question regarding a family of one-relator groups
What is the probability that a plane through three random points on the surface of the Earth intersects the Moon?
Color GeoPath according to current distance traveled
What component of the magnetic flux density is responsible for actuating a reed switch?
Does a "Minimal" Grothendieck Universe Avoid Russell-Style Paradoxes?
Where can a French citizen with Russian visa legally cross by bike/foot/car from China into Russia at a border point as close as possible to Dongning?
Did Trump say "smart people don't like me"?
What are possible options to disembark if your airline keeps you on board at the tarmac for several hours?
Is there a reason to do multiple tricks off a jump?
Looking for ACF/PACF Graph Interpretation References
What would happen if air brakes broke off midflight?
gdal_fillnodata has no compression flag
Is electrolysis of alumina (Al2O3) without cryolite possible to produce pure aluminum?
why the "e" and "m" in the last terms look different from those in the first terms
Is a postdoc essential to attaining a tenure track position in computer science in the USA?
Siblings buying grandparents' home as first time buyers. Please help me identify our blind spots
Should beginner writers publish short story science fiction on Amazon short reads to get experience?
Compute the integer hull of a polyhedral set in Mathematica
"a bunch of random Xs {do/does}”
more hot questions
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093