Nature
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI makes accurate predictions
A modified large language model called Delphi-2M analyses a person’s medical records and lifestyle to provide risk estimates for more than 1,000 diseases.
Featured Content
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
Susan Monarez testifies at tense Senate hearing that scientific integrity is being quashed at US health agency.
Max Kozlov
News17 Sept 2025
Secrets of DeepSeek AI model revealed in landmark paper
First peer reviewed study shows how a Chinese start-up firm made the market-shaking LLM for US$300,000.
Elizabeth Gibney
News17 Sept 2025
DeepSeek-R1 incentivizes reasoning in LLMs through reinforcement learning
A new artificial intelligence model, DeepSeek-R1, is introduced, demonstrating that the reasoning abilities of large language models can be incentivized through pure reinforcement learning, removing the need for human-annotated demonstrations.
Daya GuoDejian YangZhen Zhang
ArticleOpen Access17 Sept 2025
Daily briefing: A ‘time crystal’ made visible to the naked eye
Physicists have created a form of matter once thought physically impossible. Plus, the rise of religious chatbots and the debate over ‘mirror life’ heats up.
Flora Graham
Nature Briefing16 Sept 2025
Contents
Subscribe
Current Issue18 Sept 2025
Advertisement
News & Comment
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Kelly Cobey’s early career experiences sparked a campaigning zeal, now focused on predatory publishing and responsible research assessment.
Esme Hedley
Career Feature17 Sept 2025
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
Rachel Fieldhouse
News Feature17 Sept 2025
Bring us your LLMs: why peer review is good for AI models
Editorial17 Sept 2025
Which diseases will you have in 20 years? This AI accurately predicts your risks
Gemma Conroy
News17 Sept 2025
Secrets of DeepSeek AI model revealed in landmark paper
Elizabeth Gibney
News17 Sept 2025
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
David Adam
News17 Sept 2025
Three ways ex-CDC chief says that Trump team is sidelining science
Max Kozlov
News17 Sept 2025
Latest Reviews & Analysis
Caribbean coral reefs are threatened by rising seas
Modelling suggests that most Caribbean coral reefs will erode by the year 2100 as sea-level rise outpaces reef growth and limits potential reef restoration.
Nicola K. Browne
News & Views17 Sept 2025
A surprising way to make heat in an unexpected part of fat cells
Organelles called peroxisomes have been found to have a role in heat generation in fat tissue, and use a mechanism independent of the known heat-producing protein UCP1. The process involves the synthesis and degradation of monomethyl branched-chain fatty acids, driven by the lipid-synthesizing enzyme FASN and the peroxisomal enzyme ACOX2.
Research Briefing17 Sept 2025
A photonic chip enables ultrabroadband wireless communication
Future wireless networks should exploit the full range of telecommunications frequencies. A photonic chip that can reconfigure a broad range of frequencies enables dynamic, full-spectrum management of next-generation communications systems.
Research Briefing17 Sept 2025
People are more likely to cheat when they delegate tasks to AI
Artificial intelligence is moving from being a mere tool to an active partner in decision-making, but when we offload misconduct to machines, who bears the blame?
Shoko Suzuki
News & Views17 Sept 2025
AI can learn to show its workings through trial and error
Large language models (LLMs) are more accurate when they output intermediate steps. A strategy called reinforcement can teach them to do this without being told.
Daphne IppolitoYiming Zhang
News & Views17 Sept 2025
Bespoke 3D printing adapted to features mapped using computer vision
Research Briefing17 Sept 2025
Bioelectronic implants built from rolled-up stretchy circuits
Hyunjin LeeDae-Hyeong Kim
News & Views17 Sept 2025
Earth’s atmosphere took two billion years to become fully oxygenated
Research Briefing17 Sept 2025
Years of hits to the head prime the brain for decline
Adam BachstetterJosh Morganti
News & Views17 Sept 2025
Latest Research articles
Basal cell of origin resolves neuroendocrine–tuft lineage plasticity in cancer
Basal cells, rather than neuroendocrine cells, have been identified as the probable origin of small cell lung cancer and other neuroendocrine–tuft cancers, explaining neuroendocrine–tuft heterogeneity and offering new perspectives for targeting lineage plasticity.
Abbie S. IrelandDaniel A. XieTrudy G. Oliver
ArticleOpen Access17 Sept 2025
A neuronal architecture underlying autonomic dysreflexia
The neuronal architecture that develops after spinal cord injury and causes autonomic dysreflexia is uncovered.
Jan Elaine SorianoRemi HudelleGregoire Courtine
ArticleOpen Access17 Sept 2025
CRISPR activation for SCN2A-related neurodevelopmental disorders
Using SCN2A haploinsufficiency as a proof-of-concept, upregulation of the existing functional gene copy through CRISPR activation was able to rescue neurological-associated phenotypes in Scn2a haploinsufficient mice and human neurons.
Serena TamuraAndrew D. NelsonKevin J. Bender
Article17 Sept 2025
Analogue speech recognition based on physical computing
A temporal-signal processor based on two in-materia computing hardware platforms—reconfigurable nonlinear-processing units (RNPUs) and analogue in-memory computing (AIMC)—is used for both feature extraction and classification, advancing compactness, efficiency, and performance of heterogeneous smart edge devices.
Mohamadreza ZolfagharinejadJulian BüchelWilfred G. van der Wiel
ArticleOpen Access17 Sept 2025
Repeated head trauma causes neuron loss and inflammation in young athletes
Repetitive head impacts from contact sports are associated with brain inflammation, vascular damage and neuron loss that are independent of hyperphosphorylated tau pathology.
Morgane L. M. D. ButlerNida PervaizJonathan D. Cherry
ArticleOpen Access17 Sept 2025
Collections
How Trump 2.0 is reshaping science
Since US President Donald Trump took office in January 2025, his team has made major changes to the federal government that have disrupted research and research institutions in the United States and beyond.
Collection
26 Feb 2025
Advertisement
Trending - Altmetric
Redox-driven mineral and organic associations in Jezero Crater, Mars
Mystery Martian minerals hint at the planet’s complex geochemical past
Systematic attribution of heatwaves to the emissions of carbon majors
Late fluid flow in a primitive asteroid revealed by Lu–Hf isotopes in Ryugu
Science jobs
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Distinguished Professors，Young Faculty， Postdoctoral Researchers
Job applicants with a solid Biology, Biology & Medicine, Bioengineering, Ecology education background and systematic research training.
No. 100, Science Avenue, School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou, China
School of Life Sciences Zhengzhou University
OPEN FACULTY POSITION, INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR BIOLOGY, ACADEMIA SINICA, TAIWAN
One tenure-track faculty position is open for a qualified individual to establish an active research program at the IMB.
128 Academia Road, Section 2, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan
Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan
Postdoctoral Associate – Nima Sharifi Laboratory
The Sharifi Lab seeks postdocs to study endocrine and metabolic mechanisms in GU cancers, driving translational discovery to therapies
Miami, Florida (US)
University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute
Chair Professor/Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry
City University of Hong Kong (CityUHK) is one of the world’s leading universities, known for innovation, creativity and research.  We are now seeki...
Hong Kong (HK)
City University of Hong Kong
Advertisement
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
This journal
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Top headline image: Brooks Kraft/Corbis/Getty
Issue cover: Cover image: Nik Spencer/ Nature.
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited