This must-have title for Warhammer 40,000 fans is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This must-have title for Warhammer 40,000 fans is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 6, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Warhammer 40,000 is probably the most popular tabletop wargame in the world, but it doesn't stop there. The universe and its lore have broken free of the tabletop and now have a huge array of novels, TV shows, and video games covering the IP. The games in particular can come in a wild variety of genres, including strategy, shooters, and even racing games. One of the franchise's more popular titles is the Space Marine series, where you take control of one of the titular warriors of mankind to fight off any threat (and trust me, there are a lot of threats). If you've wanted to give the newest entry a try but felt it was a little too pricey for your liking, it's currently on the lowest price we've ever seen it reach on Steam.
Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine 2 is 50% off on Steam, its lowest price yet
If you've never heard of the series, the Space Marine games lets you play as mankind's strongest warriors in the 41st millennium. The first game has you fighting off the Orks and some Chaos, and this one has you fighting off the Tyranids and even more Chaos. Here's how the game describes itself:
Embody the superhuman skill and brutality of a Space Marine. Unleash deadly abilities and devastating weaponry to obliterate the relentless Tyranid swarms. Defend the Imperium in spectacular third-person action in solo or multiplayer modes.
Fight the enemies of Mankind as Lieutenant Demetrian Titus in this sequel to 2011’s Space Marine, and prove your loyalty once again as you are reinstated to the Ultramarines. Hold at bay the horrors of the galaxy in epic battles on far-flung planets and uncover dark secrets to drive back the everlasting night.
If you want to give it a shot yourself, be sure to head over to Steam and grab it while it's 50%, the steepest discount we've seen yet. You've got until September 15th until the deal vanishes, so don't dawdle on this one.
Source: Focus Entertainment
Warhammer 40,000: SPACE MARINE 2
$60 at Steam
$60 at Epic Games Store
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
6 Raspberry Pi projects for students that actually make sense
Sep 10, 2025
Arm skipped the NPU hype, making the CPU great at AI instead
Sep 9, 2025
I discovered this open-source productivity app by accident, and it ended up replacing Notion for me
Sep 9, 2025
This Windows 11 repair trick fixes nearly every Windows problem
More from our brands
Space Marine 2 Reveals Anniversary Update and Second Year of Free Content
Space Marine Remaster Flooded With Negative Reviews
Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine 2 - Enemy Types, Explained
Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine's Remaster Has Been So Poorly Received That Its Devs Are Now Offering Full Refunds
Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine 2 Reaches Impressive Sales Milestone
Why Space Marine 2 Fans Should Check Out Warhammer 40K: Darktide
Warhammer 40,000: Space Marine: Master Crafted Edition Flops After Space Marine 2's Success
Today's best deals
Elevate your workspace with this sleek and feature-packed docking station
2 hours ago
Get ready to be blown away with this Razer mechanical keyboard that's an absolute steal right now
14 hours ago
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
3 simple Windows Group Policies I always set on a new install
Nvidia is giving away copies of Borderlands 4, but there is a catch
This is the zero-config dashboard I wish I’d installed on day one
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.