The scariest 2D game I've ever played is at its lowest price on Steam, just in time for October
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
The scariest 2D game I've ever played is at its lowest price on Steam, just in time for October
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 9, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
When it comes to horror games, you'd be forgiven for thinking that 2D ones can't be nearly as scary as 3D ones. However, there are some really stellar titles out there that prove that theory wrong. Just because they're missing a dimension doesn't make them any creepier to play. One such title is Darkwood, which I personally feel is one of the scarier 2D games out there. Don't let its simple graphics fool you; this game manages to ramp up the tension in a way that I've never seen before, and it's currently on sale just in time for the horror season.
Darkwood is 75% off on Steam right now
If you've never given Darkwood a try, it's a game where you're stuck in a creepy forest, trying to find a way to escape while also solving the mysteries behind what keeps the Darkwood fuelled. The game doesn't give you many hints at all, meaning you have to strike it out by yourself. And given how the nasties lay siege on your residence every night, you have to learn pretty darn quick. Here's how the devs describe the game:
Scavenge and explore the rich, ever-changing free-roam world by day, then hunker down in your hideout and pray for the morning light.
Survival horror from a top-down perspective that is terrifying to play.
No hand holding or quest markers. Test your skills and figure things out on your own!
By day explore the randomly generated, ever-sinister woods, scavenge for materials, craft weapons and discover new secrets.
By night find shelter, barricade, set up traps and hide or defend yourself from the horrors that lurk in the dark.
Gain skills and perks by extracting a strange essence from mutated fauna and flora and injecting it into your bloodstream. Watch out for unexpected consequences…
Make decisions that impact the world of Darkwood, its inhabitants and the story you experience.
Meet eerie characters, learn their stories and decide their fate. And remember - don’t trust anyone.
As nights go by, the lines between reality and nightmarish fantasies begin to blur. Are you ready to step into Darkwood?
If you want to give it a shot, head over to the Darkwood Steam page and grab it between now and September 15th for 75% off its asking price. $3.74 is a low price to pay for one of the more chilling games I've ever played.
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
You only have a few hours left to grab this 2TB portable SSD for just $100
Sep 9, 2025
Apple proves that thin phone enthusiasts don't have to sacrifice durability for their devices
Sep 9, 2025
Immutable operating systems are a blessing and a curse
Sep 10, 2025
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
More from our brands
The Steam Winter Sale Has Some Unbelievable Deals This Year
Steam Summer Sale 2025's Best Discounted Games
30 Best Co-Op Games On Steam (April 2025)
13 Best Horror Games Set In A Forest
Resident Evil Meets Alone In The Dark In This Criminally Underrated Survival Horror Game That's Just $2 On Switch
Best Indie Open-World Horror Games, Ranked
What time does Doom: The Dark Ages release, and is it on Game Pass?
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
51 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
OPNsense is perfect for protecting your home network, but it can cause unexpected issues
5 diagnostic tools I always keep on a bootable USB drive
5 of my favorite SSH client for Windows
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.