ExpressVPN Review 2025: The Best VPN Keeps Pushing the Industry Forward - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
ExpressVPN Review 2025: The Best VPN Keeps Pushing the Industry Forward
ExpressVPN leads the pack and keeps improving its capabilities every time we review it. It's also one of the most expensive VPNs you'll find.
Article updated on September 5, 2025 at 8:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Attila Tomaschek
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
9.0/ 10
SCORE ExpressVPN
Buy at ExpressVPN
Price
$13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 per year)
Latest Tests
No DNS leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2025 tests
Network
3,000 plus servers in 105 countries
Jurisdiction
British Virgin Islands
Score Breakdown Usability
10/10Value
7/10Speed
9/10Privacy
10/10Features
9/10
Pros
Cutting-edge privacy and security
Excellent for streaming
Easy to use across platforms
Strong commitment to transparency
Privacy-friendly jurisdiction (British Virgin Islands)
Cons
Expensive
No multihop connections
New price structure doesn't add much value
Table of Contents
ExpressVPN Review 2025: The Best VPN Keeps Pushing the Industry Forward
Speed: Enhancements to Lightway and OpenVPN Connection Protocols on Windows massively boost speed performance
Cost: A new tiered price structure offers more subscription options but doesn't translate into an increase in overall value
ExpressVPN bundles at a glance
Privacy and security: Constantly evolving to exceed current and future privacy needs
ExpressVPN continues to raise the bar
2024
Two things come to mind when I think of ExpressVPN: First, it's a juggernaut and the VPN industry standard-bearer, especially when it comes to privacy and transparency -- it's one of two VPNs to earn a 10/10 for privacy, alongside Mullvad. Second, ExpressVPN is expensive. The price of the service nearly eclipsed its feature advancements in late 2024, but the company introduced a newly overhauled price structure in September 2025, just in time for this review. Based on my extensive testing and experience, Express holds its position at the top of the VPN pile, but it’s still the most expensive choice.I ran ExpressVPN through a rigorous battery of tests over the course of several weeks in January 2025, retested its speed performance in March and ran additional streaming, app performance and DNS leak tests in August and September. In addition to testing ExpressVPN’s apps across a variety of devices and operating systems throughout the year, I closely examined the company’s privacy policies, corporate structure, third-party audits and security innovations. I also ran over 300 individual speed tests, checked for leaks, evaluated its streaming capabilities across various platforms and streaming services and assessed its overall value. Throughout the process, I maintained close communication with the ExpressVPN team via email and video conference.I found that ExpressVPN continues to get improve through cutting-edge innovations like ShuffleIP, which swaps your IP address with each new page you visit, making it harder for anyone to track you online. However, price changes make it a less attractive option for casual, budget-minded VPN users. (Check out our list of the best cheap VPNs if that's more your speed.)Even so, ExpressVPN remains one of the best VPNs you can buy, especially if you have critical privacy needs or are looking for solid protection against future threats from quantum computers, which will someday be able to crack current encryption standards.
Speed: Enhancements to Lightway and OpenVPN Connection Protocols on Windows massively boost speed performance18% speed loss in 2025 testsNumber of servers: 3,000-plusNumber of server locations: 105 countries (including in all 50 US states)Key takeaway: The implementations of Lightway Turbo and DCO on OpenVPN have totally redeemed ExpressVPN’s previously shaky speed performance. ExpressVPN was the third-fastest VPN we tested in 2025.ExpressVPN has made some significant improvements since January to address speed loss that had worsened steadily over the past few years. A pair of inventive solutions on the Windows side helped transform ExpressVPN’s overall speed loss from 35% to a much more respectable 18% -- the third fastest results in our 2025 testing, behind NordVPN's 3% and Proton VPN's 16%. VPN speeds are determined partly by connection protocols, basically the rules for how your connection is encrypted. The two most common ones are the speedy WireGuard, and the old standard OpenVPN, which is usually slower but more battle-tested. I tested speeds through ExpressVPN's own Lightway protocol and OpenVPN -- both of which the company has been improving.In March 2025, ExpressVPN introduced Lightway Turbo, an advancement to its Lightway protocol, which now runs connections through multiple tunnels simultaneously instead of through a single tunnel. This helps boost speeds by allowing more data to be sent at once. ExpressVPN also rolled out Data Channel Offload for OpenVPN on Windows, which helps improve speeds by handling data packets more efficiently. In my Windows speed tests, speed loss through Lightway went from 40% in January 2025 to 17% in March 2025 and dropped from 64% to 18% through OpenVPN over the same time period. ExpressVPN says that Lightway Turbo will be coming to MacOS and other platforms in the near future. On Mac, things were more of a mixed bag. While speeds on MacOS were blazing fast through Lightway (cutting my speeds by only 8%), I was somewhat disappointed by the 29% speed loss I calculated through OpenVPN on my Mac. It’s not a surprise that OpenVPN speeds were slower than Lightway, but I still lost more speed through OpenVPN than I would have expected. Unfortunately ExpressVPN’s DCO solution on OpenVPN is not compatible with non-Windows devices, so hopefully engineers will work on giving OpenVPN speeds a similar boost on MacOS.  Either way, ExpressVPN’s overall speed turnaround from January to March was impressive, and indicative of the company’s commitment to continuous improvement. ExpressVPN’s speed performance was generally stable across most locations and protocols. I ran speed tests from my location in Ohio on a fiber connection that gets me about 370 Mbps. Speeds to relatively closer VPN server locations like New York and the UK generally yielded the fastest results, pushing 350 to 360 Mbps on MacOS through Lightway. Speeds to Germany and France were also quite fast at around 340 Mbps. It was on servers halfway across the globe in Australia and Singapore that speeds started to drop off slightly, usually hitting around 260 to 300 Mbps.
ExpressVPN's speed performance was impressive during my tests. Screenshot by CNETAnd while I did notice a fair amount of instability in my January speed tests when connecting through OpenVPN on Windows to Australia and Singapore (where speeds fluctuated from around 70 Mbps to around 120 Mbps), Lightway Turbo and DCO on OpenVPN seemed to have ironed that out, because speeds remained remarkably consistent on Windows in my latest tests. That’s saying a lot because many VPNs often struggle to maintain consistent speed performance from one speed test to another.           Cost: A new tiered price structure offers more subscription options but doesn't translate into an increase in overall valueKey takeaway: ExpressVPN is one of the best VPN services on the planet, constantly improving and innovating. It also asks you to pay some of the highest prices for that service. Even if its new VPN-only Basic tier doesn't deliver much value, its Advanced tier might be a better overall value than NordVPN's Basic subscription plan.$13 per month, $75 for the first 15 months (then $100 per year) or $98 for the first 28 months (then $100 per year)30-day money-back guaranteePayment options: Apple Pay, Google Pay, credit card, PayPal, BitcoinApps available for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Chromebook, Android, iOS, FireTV, Android TV, Apple TV, routersWorks with: Netflix, Disney Plus, Max, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, Apple TV Plus and othersExpressVPN now offers three subscription tiers: Basic, Advanced and Pro. The Basic tier bumps the simultaneous connection allowance from eight to 10, but includes only the VPN and basic ad- and tracker-blocking capabilities and costs $13 per month, $75 for the first 15 months (then $100 per year) or $98 for the first 28 months (then $100 per year). The long-term plans are cheaper now with the Basic tier than they were previously, but now with a stripped-down version of the Advanced Protection features and without access to the Keys password manager. It's a small cost savings, but doesn't really add value.
ExpressVPN introduced a tiered price structure in September 2025. Screenshot by CNETI was hoping ExpressVPN would introduce a VPN-only plan with its new tiered prices -- and technically, that's what the company came up with. However, I'm keeping ExpressVPN's value score the same because I was underwhelmed by the changes. While $75 for the first year and $98 for the first two years is a decent value for a premium VPN service, a $100 annual renewal rate is steep for what essentially amounts to a barebones offering. I would have rather seen the Basic tier renew annually at a more reasonable rate -- say around $80. As it stands, casual and budget-conscious users still have better options elsewhere.By comparison, you can get one year of Surfshark’s base VPN plan for $48 for the first year and $79 per year afterwards. Surfshark's base plan includes unlimited simultaneous connections, cookie-popup and ad-blocker, split-tunneling on all platforms and a one-of-a-kind personal detail generator. If you want something even cheaper than that, you can get PIA for $40 for the first year (then $50 annually thereafter) or $80 every three years. Both Surfshark and PIA are excellent budget-friendly VPNs. This review focuses primarily on ExpressVPN's Basic subscription tier, but depending on which plan you choose, its higher tiers include the Keys password manager, full suite of Advanced Protection features, Identity Defender tools, dedicated IP and a solid discount on its Aircove Wi-Fi 6 router. Also, the Advanced tier allows up to 12 simultaneous connections while the Pro tier allows for 14. Although ExpressVPN's Advanced tier is initially more expensive than NordVPN's Basic tier, it's arguably a better value. With ExpressVPN's Advanced tier, you get access to the VPN, password manager, full suite of Advanced Protection features, most of the Identity Protection tools and 12 simultaneous connections for $90 for the first 15 months and $120 annually thereafter. By comparison, NordVPN's Basic plan includes only the VPN with 10 simultaneous connections and costs $60 for the first 12 months but renews at $140 annually. With ExpressVPN's Advanced plan, you get more tools and more simultaneous connections at a similar intro price and a considerably cheaper annual renewal rate. If you're looking for a decent VPN bundle, then ExpressVPN's Advanced tier is a good choice.ExpressVPN bundles at a glance Here's a breakdown of each subscription tier offered by ExpressVPN
Plan BasicAdvancedProPrice $13 per month, $75 for the first 15 months (then $100 per year) or $98 for the first 28 months (then $100 per year)$14 per month, $90 for the first 15 months (then $120 per year) or $126 for the first 28 months (then $120 per year)$20 per month, $135 for the first 15 months (then $200 per year) or $210 for the first 28 months (then $200 per year)VPN YesYesYesAdvanced Protection PartialYesYesPassword manager NoYesYesID alerts NoYesYesID theft insurance NoYesYesCredit scanner NoYesYesData removal NoNoYesCredit reports NoNoYesDedicated IP Optional add-onOptional add-onYesAircove discount NoneUp to 50% offUp to 75% off
ExpressVPN’s core VPN offering is top-notch            Otherwise, ExpressVPN hits all the right notes when it comes to delivering a top-of-the-line VPN service. Its apps are slick and easy to use across a wide variety of platforms, its privacy and security is among the best in the business and you can’t get much better than ExpressVPN for streaming. It’s already a top-notch VPN provider, and its core VPN offering only continues to get better. So if you’re not turned off by the high price, I recommend ExpressVPN for basically any online activity.Signing up is a breeze, and you can pay for a subscription via a variety of payment methods including credit card, PayPal, Google Pay, Apple Pay and Bitcoin. With ExpressVPN, you’ll get apps for Windows, MacOS, Linux (GUI), Chromebook, Android, iOS, FireTV, Android TV and Apple TV. A router app is also available as well as detailed tutorials on how to set up ExpressVPN on a variety of routers. Additionally, you can purchase ExpressVPN’s own Aircove or Aircove Go routers for $165 or $145, respectively, with the VPN already built in. Although ExpressVPN recently bumped its simultaneous connection allowance to 10 on its Basic plan, going with a router setup can bypass that restriction entirely and give you whole-network protection while only accounting for a single connection.ExpressVPN’s apps are minimalist in design compared to others from PIA and Surfshark, giving you all you need in a package that’s simple to navigate. The Network Lock kill switch is easy to enable and works flawlessly and you can easily access options to change protocols or enable ExpressVPN’s suite of Advanced Protection features that allow you to block ads, trackers, malicious sites and adult sites -- but the Basic plan only includes the ad- and tracker-blocker functionalities. The Windows and Android apps include a split-tunneling feature that worked well during my testing. ExpressVPN's brand-new mobile app retains its minimalist feel, but adds some useful components and gives you the ability to customize the look of the app interface on iOS and Android. I like the convenience of the in-app speed test functionality and quick access to protocol and server selection from the home screen. The server selection section of the app also helpfully lists a group of the fastest servers based on your location, along with recent locations and popular locations for your country, giving you even more options to quickly select the ideal server for your needs. The map feature isn't fully interactive, but I like how you can tap on the IP address to quickly and easily refresh it. I also think it's cool that you can now customize the theme of the app interface as well as the app icon itself. ExpressVPN representatives tell me that the updated desktop app is slated to be rolled out this November.
You can select from a handful of different themes to customize the look of the mobile app. Screenshot by CNET
I chose Twilight. Screenshot by CNETExpressVPN is solid for streaming and for travelersExpressVPN remains one of the best VPNs for streaming thanks to how effortlessly it cuts through regional restrictions and allows users to access virtually any streaming content from anywhere in the world.During my testing, I was able to stream content from multiple locations across various streaming services including Netflix, Disney Plus, Amazon Prime Video, Max, Apple TV Plus and Hulu. My experience was remarkably smooth regardless of whether I was streaming content on Mac, Windows, iOS, Android, Fire TV Stick or Apple TV.
ExpressVPN easily unblocks international streaming content. Screenshot by CNETExpressVPN is also a solid VPN for travel because it has a large network of servers spread across 105 countries, which helps ensure stable connections wherever you may be in the world. And as an added benefit for travelers, ExpressVPN Advanced and Pro subscription plans include the opportunity to try its new eSIM service holiday.com for free. With the Advanced plan, you get a three-day eSIM, while the Pro plan comes with five days of eSIM data. It’s a great way to get instant access to an international data plan without the hassle of getting it set up through a local mobile carrier at your destination.       Privacy and security: Constantly evolving to exceed current and future privacy needsKey takeaway: All VPNs claim that user privacy is their top priority, but ExpressVPN has consistently demonstrated that it’s one of the best in the business when it comes to privacy and security. It's a trustworthy VPN service that I can confidently recommend for users with critical privacy needs.    Jurisdiction: British Virgin IslandsEncryption: AES 256-bit, ChaCha 20Diskless TrustedServer technologyNo leaks detectedProtocols available: Lightway, WireGuard, OpenVPN, IKEv2Post-quantum protectionsRegularly auditedWhile it’s an excellent all-around VPN service, privacy and security is where ExpressVPN shines the most. Few VPNs actually demonstrate their commitment to privacy as evidently and consistently as ExpressVPN. Perhaps what I admire most about ExpressVPN is that it refuses to rest on its laurels. The team is always seeking new ways to enhance user privacy for today and for the future. Express stays on the cutting edge, setting the standard for what a VPN should do to protect its users.In October 2023, ExpressVPN became one of the first VPN providers to offer post-quantum protections. Since then, ExpressVPN has doubled- and tripled-down on its commitment to providing protection against future privacy risks from quantum computers by continuing to roll out stronger post-quantum encryption standards. Most other VPNs are still playing catch-up -- if they’ve even entered the space at all.Early this year, ExpressVPN took a significant step in beefing up its security standards by upgrading to ML-KEM -- the latest NIST standard for post-quantum encryption. And by taking a hybrid approach and pairing the latest in post-quantum protections with today’s leading encryption, ExpressVPN can help ensure user privacy is protected to the highest of standards today and well into the future. ExpressVPN’s post-quantum protection is integrated into Lightway across all platforms, so all you need to do to reap its benefits is download the latest version of the app and connect to the VPN using the Lightway protocol, which is where you'll also find the fastest connections. If you prefer to use WireGuard, ExpressVPN recently rolled out its own implementation of post-quantum WireGuard and published a white paper detailing the team's process as a roadmap for other VPNs to follow in the future. I like the move because it helps push the industry forward and gives users additional connection options even though Lightway is still ExpressVPN's default protocol. However, I was curious as to why ExpressVPN decided to do this when they already offer post-quantum encryption and have open-sourced Lightway for others to implement as well.“Lightway is and will remain our best protocol, but it’s deeply tied to ExpressVPN. For some competitors, it may have felt a step too far to adopt a ‘branded’ option," Pete Membrey, ExpressVPN's Chief Research Officer told me via email. "We built Post-Quantum WireGuard because so few VPN brands have any Post-Quantum protection, then released a white paper to give the entire industry, including smaller providers, a path forward. Post-Quantum protection isn’t a nice-to-have anymore, it’s the new baseline.” ExpressVPN's transparency is unrivaledExpressVPN is also one of the standard-bearers for how a VPN should approach transparency. The VPN industry is based on trust. When you use a VPN, you’re trusting that service to keep its eyes off your internet activity. You're placing a ton of trust that it won’t log and share your data like your ISP does (many VPNs, unfortunately, do not uphold that standard, especially free VPNs). And ExpressVPN is one of the VPNs I trust the most, based on years of experience. The company goes well above and beyond to build that trust and communicate transparently about the steps it takes to protect users. ExpressVPN has an extensive Trust Center that offers a wealth of information detailing everything it takes to uphold its commitment to security and user privacy. One of the most impressive components of ExpressVPN’s Trust Center is the section that links to the VPN’s long list of independent audits. While most other VPNs that commission third-party audits have maybe a handful under their belt, ExpressVPN has undergone 23 independent audits -- far outpacing the competition. At CNET, we typically like to see VPN providers commission an audit at least once a year. ExpressVPN undergoes multiple audits every year, including its latest audit by KPMG this year which found that ExpressVPN's TrustedServer technology is implemented in accordance to the company's privacy policies. While independent audits aren’t infallible and can only confirm the VPN’s status during the audit process itself, they serve as a critical trust signal that can help bolster a VPN’s claim that it’s doing what it says it does. I also appreciate that ExpressVPN makes its full audit reports available for the general public to download, whereas many other VPN companies only give access to the reports to existing users. ExpressVPN promises not to keep any logs of your online activity while using its service.“We do not collect logs of your online activity while you are connected to our Services, including no logging of browsing history, traffic destination, data content, or DNS queries,” states ExpressVPN’s privacy policy. “We also never store connection logs, meaning no logs of your IP address, your outgoing VPN IP address, connection timestamp, or session duration.”  This promise has been scrutinized by independent auditing firms over the years and will likely face continued review in the future. A VPN’s no-logs claims are also impossible to verify with 100% certainty, but audits (and legal cases) can help bolster the veracity of those claims. A VPN that doesn’t log user activity has no useful data to hand over to authorities, even if served with a warrant or subpoena. I appreciate that ExpressVPN has started publishing a bi-annual transparency report included in its Trust Center detailing the number of legal requests it receives every six months. The company says in its latest report from the first half of 2025 that out of the more than one million requests for user data received over the past six months, none of the requests resulted in the disclosure of user-related data. It’s no accident that ExpressVPN has established itself in the British Virgin Islands, a privacy friendly jurisdiction that sits outside of the 14-Eyes alliance and doesn’t impose data retention laws. I appreciate the clarity with which ExpressVPN’s privacy policy articulates how user data is managed under its BVI jurisdiction: “Your Personal Data is controlled by and stored under ExpressVPN, and not by its ultimate holding company, Kape Technologies PLC (UK) or other related entities. Express Technologies Ltd. operates under BVI jurisdiction, in accordance with BVI laws... Consequently, any demand via legal means for Personal Data (or other types of data) is subject to BVI jurisdiction and laws. We fight vigorously to defend our rights (and those of our users) if an attempt is made to bypass the privacy protections provided for by the BVI. A parent, subsidiary, or related entity cannot be compelled to, nor would it voluntarily, provide Personal Data stored by Express Technologies Ltd.”Along with its no-logs policy, one of ExpressVPN’s core privacy protections is rooted in its TrustedServer technology, which builds upon the basics of a diskless server infrastructure. With RAM-only diskless servers, there is theoretically nowhere for data to reside like it does on a traditional hard disk. And whenever a server is shut down or rebooted, all data is completely wiped. TrustedServer takes this a step further and reinstalls the entire software stack with each server reboot, which ensures consistency and helps mitigate risks associated with misconfiguration. (Though if ExpressVPN doesn’t log its users’ online activity, there shouldn’t be any useful data on the servers anyway.) Still, ensuring its servers run on volatile memory is about as foolproof as you can get.         Privacy features work as intended, and Express keeps releasing moreExpressVPN’s privacy features worked well during my tests. The kill switch did what the kill switch is supposed to do, and I detected no leaks of any sort on any of ExpressVPN’s apps. Last year, I detected DNS leaks while connected to ExpressVPN’s Windows client with its split-tunneling feature enabled. However, I’m happy to have encountered no such leaks since ExpressVPN engineers took quick and decisive action to fix the issue after I reported it. The rapid resolution and the thorough, transparent nature with which ExpressVPN handled the issue last year is a testament to how committed the team is to protecting users.A couple of other recent enhancements I like include the ShuffleIP feature and the cipher selection feature. ShuffleIP works constantly in the background and automatically, switching your IP address every time you access a new web page without disconnecting you from the VPN. This helps boost your privacy by making it even more difficult for others to track you online. Surfshark also includes a similar feature, but you need to enable it separately with Surfshark rather than having it on by default and automatically working in the background with ExpressVPN. The cipher selection feature allows Android and iOS users to switch the cipher between ChaCha 20 or AES 256-GCM when using Lightway. This is great for power users who want more granular control over their connection or users who might be experiencing performance issues on older devices and could benefit from switching the cipher.
ExpressVPN's cipher selection feature is a nice addition for power users.
Screenshot by CNETExpressVPN continues to raise the barExpressVPN remains one of the best VPNs in the world because it excels at virtually everything that a VPN service should be doing and it keeps getting better. I’m impressed by ExpressVPN’s commitment to transparency as much as I am by its forward-thinking approach to privacy and its dedication to pushing the industry forward. However, I'm somewhat disappointed in the retooled price structure because it's not much of an upgrade for the budget-conscious user who’s just looking for something that can hide their activity from their ISP and unblock streaming content at a reasonable price. But for raw streaming capabilities and thorough privacy, you really can't beat ExpressVPN.
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
ATTILA TOMASCHEK
Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.