This TCL phone with a paper-like display can easily replace my Kindle | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
This TCL phone with a paper-like display can easily replace my Kindle
The TCL Nxtpaper 60 Ultra rethinks what "Ultra" means, focusing on eye comfort and stylus usability over raw power.
Written by
Jason Howell, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 9:39 a.m. PT
TCL Nxtpaper 60 Ultra
ZDNET's key takeaways the TCL Nxtpaper 60 Ultra is currently available in Europe for €449 for the 256GB version or €499 for 512GB.It has a large, 7.2-inch screen with a 120 Hz refresh rate that mimics an e-Ink display and a pleasant writing experience with the stylus.It's not yet available in the US. View now at TCL Best mobile deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy A36 5G 128GB Unlocked Phone (Awesome Black):  $350 (save $50)
Samsung Galaxy S24 FE 128GB Unlocked AI Phone (Gray):  $525 (save $125)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100)
Apple iPhone 14 128GB Unlocked Phone (Refurbished, Midnight):  $338 (save $291) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
TCL's Nxtpaper technology is truly unique, but after reviewing the TCL 60 XE Nxtpaper 5G, I realized its potential has been limited to lower-end smartphones. The TCL Nxtpaper 60 Ultra changes that, integrating the latest version of Nxtpaper 4.0 technology into a larger-format mid-range device. This is not a spec-chasing flagship like the Galaxy S25 Ultra or the Pixel 10 Pro, instead positioned as an "Ultra" in terms of comfort and size rather than sheer performance. A screen built for eye comfortThe first thing I noticed when I unboxed the Nxtpaper 60 Ultra was its unmistakably large 7.2-inch panel, which dwarfs the Galaxy S25 Ultra I carry. One-handed use is nearly impossible, and I had to be sure my pockets could handle the footprint of the device, especially when equipped with the case that also stores a stylus. Also: This $200 Android phone with a paper-like display made my Pixel look overbearingThe LCD panel features a 120 Hz refresh for smooth navigation, and black levels impressed me more than I expected from LCD. In fact, much of the color science resembled an OLED display. The tech that drives Nxtpaper's eye-soothing display adds extra layers on top, which can give content a subtle haze. The matte finish kills any reflections and most fingerprints, but also makes it somewhat difficult to view in direct sunlight.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS TCL Nxtpaper 60 Ultra The Nxtpaper 60 Ultra has a handful of display modes that resemble E Ink technology.
details
View at TCL For eye comfort, two things stand out. First, the Nxtpaper technology is effective down to around 3.4% battery life according to TCL, a feature that doesn't require color tinting or software settings. Another important note is the total lack of pulse-width modulation to achieve its low brightness capability. This is great for anyone who suffers from headaches or strain from flickering displays. The panel can dim all the way down to two nits, which for me meant bedtime scrolling stayed peaceful even with the lights out.Changing modes at the flick of a switch
Jason Howell/ZDNETNxtpaper devices like the 60 Ultra include a physical switch on the side to unlock different display modes with variable color characteristics, along with deeper system adjustments meant to increase battery performance and limit distraction.Max Ink Mode is the most drastic change, with everything turning black and white while the system is reduced to a few key apps. This mode was the perfect choice for no-distraction reading. It's not E Ink technology, but it sure looks like it, and it increases battery life to hundreds of hours on a full charge. While I didn't push it that far, I logged quite a few hours of reading and plan to take this on my upcoming trip to Ireland for exactly this purpose.Also: The tablet that successfully replaced my Kindle and iPad now has a worthy follow-upInk Paper Mode also goes to grayscale but keeps the full Android operating system intact. I found it ideal for news and casual browsing. Switching to Google Photos or the Camera app temporarily returns the device to full color, and that sudden burst of color from black and white really helped me appreciate just how vibrant this panel can be. Color Paper Mode mutes saturation without eliminating it. This is perhaps my favorite mode because it keeps everything easy on the eyes while still letting me watch videos or browse Instagram without feeling like I'm using a monochromatic e-ink device.Writing feels great
Jason Howell/ZDNETUsing a stylus on a smartphone isn't essential in my experience, but I appreciate the lengths TCL has gone to integrate a capable stylus experience into the 60 Ultra. The T-Pen, sold separately, uses electro-magnetic resonance, the same tech behind Wacom and Samsung's S Pen. The passive stylus has no battery, though you'd never know it. A short hover over the display presents a cursor, and the T Pen offers 4,096 levels of pressure sensitivity. I had a difficult time detecting any latency.Also: I tried Meta's new Oakley smart glasses in my production studio - my verdict as a content creatorWhat stands out is how the T Pen feels on this screen. The matte texture gives the pen paper-like friction, and I noticed a faint sound when writing that adds to the illusion. My biggest frustration is that the T Pen doesn't store in the phone itself, like on Samsung's Galaxy S Ultra phones. TCL does sell a bulky case with a side-mounted attachment point, but that makes an already huge smartphone that much larger in everyday use.AI features fall short
Jason Howell/ZDNETInside the Nxtpaper 60 Ultra is a MediaTek Dimensity 7400 paired with 12 gigabytes of RAM. I found this midrange chip to perform well across standard OS functions, and PUBG ran smoothly with no noticeable heat. Lag tended to creep up more when taking lots of pictures and maneuvering through the camera interface. Switching Nxtpaper display modes with the toggle also takes longer than expected.The battery is a healthy 5,200 mAh, which easily lasted through full days with consistent use. Features like Max Ink Mode help relieve battery anxiety, particularly since it's a simple flick of the switch away. Wired charging tops out at 33 watts, reaching 50% in 30 minutes. However, there's no wireless charging, which feels like a missed opportunity on a phone branded as "Ultra."Also: I found a budget Android tablet qualified to replace my Kindle (and the price is right)TCL includes a handful of AI features, many of which are table stakes. Summaries, transcriptions, Magic Eraser, and Circle to Search are all present. A unique Bookshelf app appears within Max Ink Mode that can turn any book into an audiobook or two-person podcast with AI-driven text-to-speech. I could not listen to "The Odyssey" for more than a few minutes before becoming annoyed by the odd voice characteristics and robotic delivery.On the plus side, software support is stronger than I expected. TCL promises three major Android OS updates along with seven years of security patches. That's a solid update promise for a mid-range smartphone like this one.A rare mid-range phone with periscope zoom
Jason Howell/ZDNETThe rear camera system features a 50-megapixel periscope lens offering 3x optical zoom, along with 6x optical quality zoom. That lens can go all the way to 100x, although I would never recommend using those settings. Unlike Google's sharpening on 100x photos shot with the Pixel 10 Pro series, TCL's processing is harsh and unusable.Also: Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's whyThat said, I'm always happy to have an optical zoom in my toolset, and  I enjoyed using the periscope for macro photography of food and flowers. The primary 50MP lens can capture nice results in good lighting, but TCL's post-processing often leaves images looking washed out. The 8MP ultrawide is forgettable and an easy tell that some corners were cut.ZDNET's buying adviceThe Nxtpaper 60 Ultra performs well as a less expensive alternative to the Samsung S25 Ultra, with a surprisingly capable stylus integration and an impressively differentiated display. There are compromises in the camera system, the AI features promise more than they can deliver, and the larger size might be a polarizing design choice. Another big downside for US buyers is that TCL has yet to announce whether it plans to bring the phone to the States. Currently, it can be found in Europe, Latin America, and Asia-Pacific, and priced at €
449 for the model with 256GB of storage, or €499 euros for 512GB. Follow my latest tech reviews and projects across social media. You'll find me on YouTube at YouTube.com/@JasonHowell, on X (formerly Twitter) at @JasonHowell, and on Instagram at Instagram.com/thatjasonhowell.Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tried this 25-inch Android tablet for a week - here's how my buying advice changed
The most impressive piece of tech I've tested in 2025 (and it isn't smart glasses)
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use