Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
This $80 refurbished Lenovo chromebook Is a good deal right now
Canada dismantles TradeOgre exchange, seizes $40 million in crypto
Stay fit and connected — and spend 68% less on an Apple Watch
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityMicrosoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
By Ionut Ilascu
September 21, 2025
01:30 PM
0
A critical combination of legacy components could have allowed complete access to the Microsoft Entra ID tenant of every company in the world.
The fatal mix included undocumented tokens called “actor tokens” and a vulnerability in the Azure AD Graph API (CVE-2025-55241) that allowed the tokens to work with any organization’s Entra ID environment.
A threat actor exploiting the issue would have had access to a slew of highly sensitive data without leaving any trace in the logs on the targeted environment, except for their own actions.
Entra ID is Microsoft’s cloud-based identity and access management (IAM) service, formerly known as Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), which provides organizations with single sign-on, multi-factor authentication, and security controls across apps and resources.
A dedicated Entra ID instance represents a single organization and manages secure access to all the apps used, both on-premise and cloud-based.
This can include Microsoft 365 services, custom and third-party SaaS products like Salesforce, Dropbox, or cloud apps from Google, Amazon, or SAP.
Security researcher Dirk-jan Mollema, founder of offensive security Outsider Security, discovered a token validation flaw that gave him Global Admin privileges in every Entra ID tenant.
This level of access allows full tenant compromise and opens the door to any service authenticated through Entra ID.
Impersonating any user in the tenant
In a technical blog post, Mollema explains that actor tokens are issued by a legacy service called Access Control Service, which “is used for authentication with SharePoint applications and also seems to be used by Microsoft internally.”
The researcher found them while investigating hybrid Exchange setups. He noticed that Exchange would request them when communicating with other services on behalf of a user.
“The Actor token allows it to 'act' as another user in the tenant when talking to Exchange Online, SharePoint and as it turns out the Azure AD Graph” - Dirk-jan Mollema
Actor tokens are not signed, meaning they can be used to impersonate any user in the tenant, and have a 24-hour validity without the possibility of being revoked during this period.
Mollema says that “this whole Actor token design is something that never should have existed,” because they lack the proper required security controls:
there are no logs when Actor tokens are issued
since these services can craft the unsigned impersonation tokens without talking to Entra ID, there are also no logs when they are created or used
they cannot be revoked within their 24-hour validity
they completely bypass any restrictions configured in Conditional Access
we have to rely on logging from the resource provider to even know these tokens were used in the tenant
The researcher says that Microsoft relies on actor tokens internally for service-to-service communication and that the company plans to remove them.
Microsoft calls them “high-privileged access (HPA)” that allows an application or service, "to impersonate other users without providing any proof of user context.
While testing multiple ways to use an actor token, Mollema changed the tenant ID to one different from that generating the token, and sent it to the deprecated Azure AD Graph API (graph.windows.net), expecting an “access denied” message.
Instead, the error the researcher saw indicated that the token was valid, but access was unauthorized because the identity of the user was not found in the tenant.
Azure AD Graph error indicates that token is valid but user does not existsource: Dirk-jan Mollema
Mollema tried again, this time with a valid user ID from the targeted tenant, and saw Azure AD Graph API return the requested data.
“I tested this in a few more test tenants I had access to, to make sure I was not crazy, but I could indeed access data in other tenants, as long as I knew their tenant ID (which is public information) and the netId of a user in that tenant.”
Using the same actor token, the researcher was able to impersonate the Global Administrator in the target tenant and perform all the actions associated with the role (e.g. manage and create users of different roles, modify configurations, reset passwords, add admins).
Mollema highlights that none of the actions required for obtaining Global Admin privileges generated any logs in the victim tenant.
From an attacker’s perspective, exploiting the issues would have been possible in a few steps, starting with generating the actor token from a tenant under their control:
Finding the tenant ID for the targeted environment can be done with public APIs based on the domain name
Finding a valid netId of a regular user in the target tenant
Crafting an impersonation token with the actor token from the attacker tenant using the tenant ID and netId of the user in the victim tenant
Listing all Global Admins in the tenant and their netId
Crafting an impersonation token for the Global Admin
Performing any read/write action through the Azure AD Graph API
Mollema notes that only activity in the last step would be recorded in the victim tenant.
It is important to note that Microsoft started the deprecation process for the Azure AD Graph API service in September last year.
In late June, the company warned that apps configured for extended access but still used Azure AD Graph would no longer be able to use the APIs starting early September 2025.
Mollema reported the issues to Microsoft on July 14 and the company confirmed that the problem was resolved nine days later.
On September 4, Microsoft also patched CVE-2025-55241, describing it as a critical privilege escalation vulnerability in Azure Entra.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Hackers hide behind Tor in exposed Docker API breachesMax severity Argo CD API flaw leaks repository credentialsStorm-0501 hackers shift to ransomware attacks in the cloudNew downgrade attack can bypass FIDO auth in Microsoft Entra IDHackers abused API to verify millions of Authy MFA phone numbers
actor token
API
Azure Active Directory
Azure AD
Global Admin
Microsoft Entra ID
Microsoft Graph
Ionut Ilascu
Ionut Ilascu is a technology writer with a focus on all things cybersecurity. The topics he writes about include malware, vulnerabilities, exploits and security defenses, as well as research and innovation in information security. His work has been published by Bitdefender, Netgear, The Security Ledger and Softpedia.
Previous Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
Google patches sixth Chrome zero-day exploited in attacks this year
WatchGuard warns of critical vulnerability in Firebox firewalls
Sponsor Posts
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT