See the Embattled Pritzker Estate, on Sale for a Jaw-Dropping $175M
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Real Estate
A billionaire heir built one of America's largest homes. His bitter divorce means his $175 million mansion is for sale.
By
Gabbi Shaw
The Pritzker Estate hit the market in October 2024, nearly a year ago.
Anthony Barcelo
Updated
2025-09-15T15:51:24Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
A Los Angeles mansion — one of the country's biggest homes — is on the market for $175 million.
The 50,000-square-foot home has 16 bedrooms, 27 bathrooms, and a cliffside pool.
It was built by Hyatt heir Tony Pritzker and his then-wife, Jeanne, in 2011, but they split in 2022.
In the hills of Beverly Crest, a neighborhood in Los Angeles' Westside, looms the Pritzker estate, one of the largest homes in the US.The 50,000-square-foot megamansion took six years to build and includes 16 bedrooms, 27 bathrooms, a tennis court, a basketball court, a cliffside pool, a detached guest house, a bowling alley, and a private movie theater.
It hit the market in October 2024 after owners Tony and Jeanne Pritzker, who initially separated in 2022, finalized their divorce with an undisclosed settlement in 2024.At first, the estate was listed for $195 million — The Wall Street Journal reported that if it sold for that, it would break the previous record for the priciest home sold in Los Angeles, held by Jeff Bezos. Bezos bought his Beverly Hills mansion, which is just over a mile from the Pritzker estate, for $165 million in 2020.In April 2025, the Pritzker estate's listing price was slashed by $20 million to $175 million. Even with the reduction, it would still beat Bezos' record.
Take a look inside the one-of-a-kind property.
The estate was built by Tony Pritzker, an heir to the Hyatt fortune, and his wife, Jeanne. They separated in 2022 after 33 years of marriage.
Jeanne Pritzker and Tony Pritzker finished the home in 2011.
Stefanie Keenan/WireImage/Getty Images
Tony and Jeanne Pritzker wed in 1989 and have six children. Tony Pritzker is one of the heirs to the Hyatt Hotels fortune and is chairman and CEO of Pritzker Private Capital. According to a recent Forbes estimate, he's worth $4.4 billion.The couple cited irreconcilable differences in their divorce filing.Upon their split in 2022, Jeanne Pritzker wanted to remain in the home, while her husband wanted to sell.The Wall Street Journal reported Tony Pritzker's lawyers informed her she didn't have any rights to the Pritzker estate; instead, it was owned by a series of trusts and LLCs.The lawyers said that since she wasn't a beneficiary of any of these trusts, she didn't actually own the home.The Journal reported that this is a growing trend among billionaires who want to hide their actual wealth for various reasons, including tax purposes, estate planning, and privacy.The Pritzkers did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider.
Now, their former home is on the market for $175 million.
The exterior is imported Italian white limestone.
Anthony Barcelo
The home is in Beverly Crest, a neighborhood with some huge mansions. You might even recognize the zip code: 90210.Among the Pritzkers' neighbors was Jeff Bezos, who owns a property 1.4 miles away known as the Warner Estate. He purchased the home for a record-breaking $165 million in 2020.Zillow shows nearby homes range from $1.3 million to $150 million.
The 6-acre property has 180-degree views of the Los Angeles skyline.
There are large hedges that line the driveway leading up to the property.
Anthony Barcelo
"You feel like you're floating in the view," local real-estate agent Rayni Williams told the Journal. Williams isn't involved with the sale but has attended events at the home.She added that the view is unique because properties of this size tend to be in flatter areas of LA, rather than up in the hills.
The home was designed by architect Ed Tuttle.
A view of the interior courtyard.
Anthony Barcelo
Tuttle, who died in 2020, was known for designing the Thai luxury resort Amanpuri.
An atrium is the focal point of the main house.
This looks like it could be a museum.
Gabbi Shaw/Business Insider
The Zillow listing noted that the patterned roof resembles the pyramid outside the Louvre, designed by I.M. Pei.
This sitting area is surrounded by glass.
You're never far from a window inside.
Gabbi Shaw/Business Insider
The home was made for entertaining, specifically, according to Jeanne Pritzker, for charity events.Mitt Romney held a fundraiser at the property in 2012, The Hollywood Reporter reported.
From the sitting area, you can see throughout the home's first floor.
It has a museum-like quality.
Gabbi Shaw/Business Insider
While the exterior is limestone, the interior is mainly steel and glass.
A living room showcases panoramic views of the city and one of the home's 18 fireplaces.
A living room.
Anthony Barcelo
On a clear day, you can see the Pacific Ocean.
Some hallways have glass panels, so anyone walking through the house can see the views and the interior courtyard.
One of the hallways.
Anthony Barcelo
The home also has its own wellness center.
This central courtyard has seating for anyone looking to take in the LA sunshine.
The interior courtyard.
Anthony Barcelo
They're not visible in this photo, but the interior courtyard also has fountains.
There's a ground-floor patio and a balcony on the second floor.
The balcony has hedges of its own to match the driveway.
Anthony Barcelo
The property also has parking for anywhere from 80 to 100 cars.
From the pool, you can see the downtown LA skyline.
The pool.
Anthony Barcelo
The infinity pool is 75 feet long and made with green marble.
The backyard also has an outdoor kitchen with two grills and a pizza oven.
The backyard is its own private oasis.
Anthony Barcelo
There's even a "custom swimsuit spinner," per the Journal.
You can't miss the tennis court and basketball court in the yard either.
Part of the backyard.
Anthony Barcelo
Any sports fan would be happy here.
There's also a detached guest house.
An aerial view of the estate.
Anthony Barcelo
It's a two-story building with two bedrooms of its own.The property was completed in 2011, the Journal reported.
Due to property restrictions, it's unlikely that a home of this size will be built in this area again.
A view of the backyard.
Anthony Barcelo
"You couldn't build it today. This is the finest house I've ever seen," the listing agent, Stephen Shapiro, told the Journal.Shapiro, of Westside Estate Agency, is marketing the listing with his colleague Kurt Rappaport.Editor's note: This story was originally published in October 2024. It was updated in September 2025 to reflect the property's price decrease.
Recommended video
Real Estate
Los Angeles
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account