This app will pay you $30/day to record your phone calls for AI - but is it worth it? | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Security
This app will pay you $30/day to record your phone calls for AI - but is it worth it?
The Neon app offers a quick way to make money. But is your privacy worth the payment?
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 10:51 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysNeon will pay you to share your phone calls.The app sells recordings of your calls to AI companies for training.You can earn as much as $30 a day.A new app is promising to give you hundreds or even thousands of dollars per year. And all you have to do is share your phone conversations for the purpose of training AI. Yep, there's always a catch.Free to iPhone owners via Apple's App Store and Android users at the Google Play Store, a new program called Neon - Money Talks will pay you for certain phone conversations that you share with the company behind the app. Recordings of your phone calls are then passed along to AI developers who use natural language to train their chatbots.Also: Does your generative AI protect your privacy? New study ranks them best to worstBefore you nix the idea of sharing your private phone calls for a few bucks, know that Neon is near the top of the charts among the most popular free apps in the App Store. That must mean a lot of people are willing to put their privacy up for sale, at least at the right price.Before I come down too hard on this whole concept, let's go through the finer points.How Neon worksOnly calls made or received through the Neon app are recorded. Any conversations you have through the regular phone app on your iPhone or Android phone are excluded.Neon will pay you 30 cents per minute when you speak with another Neon user. In that case, both sides of the conversation are recorded. You'll get 15 cents per minute when you speak with a non-Neon user. Here, only your end of the call is recorded, or at least shared.You can earn up to $30 a day max by sharing your calls with Neon. The company will also dole out a $30 referral fee for each person you convince to use the app.Also: How Google's new AI model protects user privacy without sacrificing performanceAs for your privacy, Neon promises that it anonymizes your calls, which means it removes names, numbers, addresses, and other PII (personally identifiable information) before the calls are shared. The call recordings are encrypted and sold only to trusted and vetted AI companies, according to Neon.After you install and open the app, you're asked to share your phone number for verification purposes. You're then prompted to enter your first name and email address and agree to the terms and conditions. To dive in, you'd then make a phone call through Neon just as you would with any other calling app.To qualify, though, you have to follow certain rules. You must conduct a normal phone call, meaning genuine, two-way conversations. No long silent calls with no conversation, no putting your phone on speakerphone and not talking with the other person, and no playing pre-recorded audio.To get paid, you can cash out your earnings as soon as you score your first ten cents. After you redeem a payout, you'll typically get paid within three business days.Also: Tor browser's great - but for more complete privacy protection, you need to add thisBased on the popularity of Neon, many people appear to be fine with this whole idea. You do have control over the process since only calls made through the app are recorded. Neon promises to anonymize the recordings and remove personal details. And I guess in this age of AI and social media, more people seem perfectly OK sharing private tidbits of their lives. Plus, many AIs already try to capture the natural language used in your chats to train themselves. So why not get paid for it?"Telecom companies are profiting off your data, and we think you deserve a cut," Neon says on its FAQ page. "With your consent, we process your call recordings, remove all personal info, and sell the anonymized audio to companies training AI."But I still ask the question: At what price, privacy? Do you really want some AI vacuuming up your personal phone calls, even with the data supposedly anonymous? Is that worth a few dollars a day? Those are just some of the questions you might want to ask yourself if you're thinking of giving Neon a shot.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
In 2 years, half of all service calls will be resolved by AI - survey
FTC scrutinizes OpenAI, Meta, and others on AI companion safety for kids
Sorry, ChatGPT - Gemini is the new top free iPhone app now
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use