White House Internship Program – The White House
Menu
President Donald J. Trump
The
White House
Search
News
Articles
Briefings & Statements
Fact Sheets
Presidential Actions
Executive Orders
Nominations & Appointments
Presidential Memoranda
Proclamations
Remarks
Administration
Donald J. Trump
JD Vance
Melania Trump
Usha Vance
The Cabinet
Media
Video Library
Gallery
Live News
White House Wire
Issues
History
America 250
The Founders Museum
America’s Founding Fathers
Moments That Made Us
Road to Revolution: A Timeline
Signers of the Declaration of Independence
Our Government
Get in Touch
Contact
Visit
Internships
X
Instagram
Facebook
Search for:
Press Enter to Search
White House Internship Program
Overview
Presidential Departments
Selection Process
FAqs
How to apply
Apply to be a White House Intern
The White House Internship Program is a public service leadership program that provides a unique opportunity to gain valuable professional experience and build leadership skills. Learn more about applying to be a White House Intern today!
Learn more
The White House Internship Program’s mission is to make the “People’s House” accessible to future leaders from around the nation.
The White House Internship Program is a public service leadership program that provides a unique opportunity to gain valuable professional experience and build leadership skills. This program is designed to mentor and cultivate today’s young leaders, strengthen their understanding of the Executive Office, and prepare them for future public service opportunities.
The President, First Lady, and White House staff are committed to providing young leaders an opportunity to develop their leadership skills and serve their country through the White House Internship Program. This program was developed to provide hands-on experience and cultivate meaningful skills.
A select group of young men and women from across the country dedicate their time, talents, energy, and service to better the White House and the Nation. These committed citizens become part of the White House team. The assignments given to an intern on any given day could include: conducting research, managing incoming inquiries, attending meetings, writing memos, and staffing events.
While interns’ responsibilities and tasks vary by department, all interns are united through weekly events, including a speaker series and professional development opportunities. Most importantly, the internship experience emphasizes community, and interns will be provided the opportunity to participate in volunteer projects.
The Fall 2025 White House Internship Program will center on leadership development and community impact while embracing the storied history of the White House as the training ground for equipping the next generation of leaders.
Learn how to apply here!
Gallery
News
Wire
Issues
Contact
Visit
EOP
Administration
Gallery
Video Library
America 250
Founding Fathers
The Signers
Subscribe to The White House newsletter
Please leave blank.
Text POTUS to 45470 to receive updates
The White House
1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW
Washington, DC 20500
X
Instagram
Facebook
WH.GOV
Copyright
Privacy
Back to top