The Best Smart Scales for 2025 and How to Get the Most Accurate Reading - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessFitness Fitness Tech
The Best Smart Scales for 2025 and How to Get the Most Accurate Reading
These are our favorite smart scales, plus experts share the best way to weigh yourself.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Written by
Medically Reviewed
Written by
Nasha Addarich Martínez
Article updated on August 14, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Reviewed by: Amelia Ti Medical Reviewer Amelia Ti is a Registered Dietitian (RD) and Certified Diabetes Care and Education Specialist (CDCES) based in NYC. She completed her Bachelor's in Nutrition & Dietetics at NYU and Master's in Applied Nutrition at Russell Sage College. Amelia's evidence-based knowledge and passion for the field allow her to translate nutrition research and innovation to the public. Expertise Nutrition | Dietetics | Diabetes Care | Nutrition Innovation Credentials Registered DietitianCertified Diabetes Care and Education Specialist Education New York University, BS in Nutrition & DieteticsRussell Sage College, MS in Applied Nutrition See more
Nasha Addarich Martínez Managing Editor Nasha is a Managing Editor for CNET, overseeing our sleep and wellness verticals. She is a nutrition, mental health, fitness and sleep science enthusiast. Her passion for mindful and holistic practices transcends her personal life and profoundly influences her editorial approach, as she weaves evidence-based insights with practical advice to inspire readers to lead healthier, more balanced lives. Throughout her career, she's covered various topics including financial services, technology, travel and wellness. Expertise Sleep | Mental health | Personal Care | Fitness | Nutrition | Medical | Wellness | Vitamins and Supplements | Vision Health | Longevity Credentials Sleep Science Coach Certification from The Spencer Institute.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
The right smart scale for you will include the most features you want at the right price for your budget.
Weight capacity
Be sure to check the smart scale's weight capacity to ensure it can handle your weight.
App compatibility
If you already use a fitness app, be sure that the smart scale is compatible with it.
Body image
If you struggle with body image, consult with your doctor to find the best option for you. Some scales come with the option to hide your weight.
Connectivity
Determine if you'd like your smart scale to connect to Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or both.
User-friendly interface
You want a smart scale that has an interface that's easy to read and follow. Especially if there will be multiple users.
Durability
Choose a smart scale that is long-lasting and can handle multiple recharges or battery changes.
Privacy policy
If privacy is of concern, make sure you read the privacy policy of the smart scale you plan to purchase first.
Battery life
Whether you're going to use the scale often or occasionally, you want a smart scale with decent battery life that doesn't require constant recharging.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Weighing yourself regularly is one of the many ways to measure your health. But it doesn't give you the whole picture. If you're looking for more data besides your weight, you should invest in a smart scale. Most smart scales help you measure body fat, muscle mass and heart rate. As CNET’s fitness expert, my role is to offer honest, informative and helpful fitness advice and content in a world of misinformation. That’s why I tested top-rated smart scales for over two weeks, comparing their results with recent readings from my doctor and tracking consistency with daily weigh-ins. These are the models that stood out for their accuracy, features and overall value. Our Picks
Most customizable smart scale Wyze Scale X
Jump to details
$40 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart scale with user-friendly app Renpho Smart Wi-Fi Bluetooth Body Fat Scale-Premium
Jump to details
$69 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart scale for accurate body composition tracking Homedics Luxe Glo Scale
Jump to details
$47 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart scale display screen Etekcity HR Smart Fitness Scale
Jump to details
$80 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart scale with basic readings Greater Goods Premium Wi-Fi Scale
Jump to details
$40 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart scale for unlimited users Eufy Smart Scale P2 Pro
Jump to details
$45 at Amazon
Jump to details
Smart scale with the most third-party app connections Withings Body Plus
Jump to details
$119 at Withings
Jump to details
Show 2 more
FITNESS TRACKER DEALS OF THE WEEK
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 42mm, Black, S/M 130-180mm, Sports Band):  $299 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Wi-Fi, 40mm, S/M Green):  $199 (save $101)
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $72 (save $39)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $190 (save $110)
Fitbit Charge 6 Fitness Tracker (Black):  $110 (save $50) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
The Best Smart Scales for 2025 and How to Get the Most Accurate Reading
What to consider
What is the overall best smart scale?
Best smart scales for 2025
Homedics Luxe Glo Scale
Best Smart Scale for 2025 compared
How we tested the best smart scales
Other smart scales tested
Factors to consider
Best smart scale practices
Smart scale FAQs
Do scales lose accuracy over time?
Are smart scales beneficial for metrics besides weight?
Who should not use a smart scale?
How can I check if my smart scale is accurate?
Can multiple users use a smart scale?
What is the overall best smart scale?Because most of these smart scales offer different options for different preferences, we decided not to pick a best-overall option. Each smart scale has unique (and some similar) qualities that fit your specific needs, whether you're an athlete or someone who monitors their weight occasionally.Best smart scales for 2025
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Most customizable smart scale
Wyze Scale X
Pros
Affordable at under $50
Stylish for any bathroom
Easy to use
Suitable for various weights and people with 400-lb capacity
Cons
App could give more information
It could have more integrated apps
Not ideal for those who want a scale that connects to Wi-Fi
What we like about it: The Wyze Scale X is the most versatile scale on the list because it can weigh adults, babies, pets and even luggage. The scale’s face is made of smooth tempered glass and it's conveniently lightweight and thin, so it can be stored easily. It has a weight capacity of 400 pounds, so people of various sizes can comfortably use it. You can create up to eight profiles and customize them accordingly. This scale can read up to 13 body composition metrics, including body fat percentage, basal metabolic rate, metabolic age, muscle mass, body mass index and heart rate. The Wyze scale was consistent through every weigh-in when I tested it. It provides quick readings, but the LED display panel only shares your weight and body fat percentage. In the Wyze app, you can find the rest of the body composition metrics. Overall, I liked this scale because it is customizable for the whole family, has an easy-to-read app and is inexpensive for all that it offers.Who it’s best for: This scale is best if you're looking for something customizable based on the members of your household using it, plus other features. You can customize your profile based on your gender, age, height and activity level. If you're pregnant or have an implanted device, you can turn on the pregnancy or weight-only mode. The Wyze Scale also connects to integrated apps like Apple Health, Fitbit and Google Health Connect. The Wyze app is unique in that it can read your heart rate. Other scales have heart rate built into the software, whereas Wyze measures your heart rate by connecting to the smartphone camera and having you place your finger over the lens to get a reading. If you care about having access to your health data, you can export it if you need to share it with your doctor or another health practitioner.Who shouldn’t get it: If you want a smart scale with a reliable app, this one may not be the best choice. I thought the app could do a better job of explaining the purpose of each measurement but it does give you a synopsis for each one as you click through. It also provides a rubric with which range you fall in but it's not clear whether that means you're in a healthy range. If you prefer a rechargeable scale, you may find it a nuisance that this one is battery-powered only.  ... Show more
Get it now
$40 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Display Type
LEDWeight Limit
400 poundsSyncs with other apps
Apple Health, Google Health Connect, and FitbitSize
11.8 inches x 11.8 inches x 1.18 inchesBattery life
22 months
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best smart scale with user-friendly app
Renpho Smart Wi-Fi Bluetooth Body Fat Scale-Premium
Pros
App interface is user-friendly
Reads data quickly
Inexpensive at under $45
Unlimited user profiles
Cons
Doesn't look as high-end as other smart scales
Not suitable for pregnant people or those with implanted devices
What we like about it: This scale from Renpho is the best option if you're looking for a user-friendly smart scale app. I liked how easy it is to connect to the Renpho app and its interface because although it's simple, the design shows all 13 body composition measurements clearly. Upon weighing yourself, the only metrics this scale displays are your weight, body fat percentage and BMI. You can also view your measurement trends in the form of a line graph across a week, month or year. If you'd like to sync your Renpho scale with third-party apps, you can connect it to Apple Health, Fitbit App, Google Health Connect and Samsung Health. I found the weigh-ins with the Renpho scale to be repeatedly consistent throughout the two-week testing period. The scale uses Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, which is helpful because it means you can save your data in Wi-Fi mode and sync it up later via Bluetooth. This sleek, black design doesn't look as fancy as the other high-end scales on the list, but it's the right size to store in your bedroom or bathroom. Who it’s best for: This scale from Renpho is the best option if you want a user-friendly smart scale app. Smart scales can get complicated fast, but Renpho keeps things simple. The scale uses Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, which is helpful because it means you can save your data in Wi-Fi mode and sync it up later via Bluetooth. This sleek, black design doesn't look as fancy as the other high-end scales on the list but it's the right size to store in your bedroom or bathroom. You’ll also get unlimited profiles if there are going to be multiple users -- including infants -- in your home.Who shouldn’t get it: It's battery-powered, so if you want a rechargeable scale, this may not be the best choice for you. It's important to note that, unlike most of the other scales on this list, this one doesn't have a mode for pregnant people or those with implanted devices.   ... Show more
Get it now
$69 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Display type
LEDWeight limit
396Syncs with other apps
Samsung Health, Apple Health, and Google Health ConnectSize
11.1 inches x 11.1 inches x 1 inchesBattery life
Battery-powered
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best smart scale for accurate body composition tracking
Homedics Luxe Glo Scale
Pros
Accurate weight tracking with consistent readings
Seamless design
Syncs with popular fitness apps like Apple Health, Fitbit and Google Fit
Multi-user friendly
Made with recycled material
Cons
No Wi-Fi connectivity
Fingerprints are visible on the glass after use
Why we like it: The recently launched Homedics Luxe Smart Scale is one of the most accurate (and stylish) smart scales I've tested. It has a sleek, minimalist design that I like -- no clunky electrodes sticking out, just a smooth tempered glass platform that works well with any decor. Once you step on it, you get a quick weight reading on the bright LED display. Whether you're tracking your fitness journey or keeping tabs on your health, this is a great smart scale for anyone.Who it’s best for: If you want a foolproof scale that can be used by multiple people in your home, this is the best pick. This smart scale has multi-user recognition -- it automatically identifies different users and includes a special mode for babies and athletes. The Homedics Luxe Smart Scale offers advanced body composition tracking beyond your weight and BMI. It also measures 13 essential body metrics such as body fat percentage, muscle mass, visceral fat and metabolic age. You can sync the scale with the Homedics Scales app, which tracks your trends over time and integrates your data with Apple Health, Fitbit and Google Fit.Who shouldn’t get it: This scale is one of the more expensive selections on this list, priced at $100. It’s also battery-powered instead of rechargeable, which some people may not prefer. If you’re looking for something simpler without all the extra body metrics, you can opt for a scale like the Greater Goods Premium Wi-Fi scale.  ... Show more
Get it now
$47 at Amazon
$80 at Homedics
Specs & Configurations
Display Type
LEDWeight Limit
400 poundsSyncs with other apps
Apple Health, Google Fit and FitbitSize
11.8” x 11.8” with 5mm tempered glassBattery life
Battery powered, 4 AAA batteries included
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best smart scale display screen
Etekcity HR Smart Fitness Scale
Pros
High-resolution display screen is easy to read
The app is easy to use and sync up to the scale
Safe for pregnant people and those with implanted devices
Unlimited profiles can be created
Cons
Expensive at $80
Some extra data like weather and temperature don't seem necessary
Why we like it: It may not seem like a big deal, but the way a scale shows readings on its display screen can make or break your experience. This is especially true if you have vision issues or are tall and would like your scale to have larger fonts for easier reading. Etekcity's HR Smart Fitness Scale has the best display screen because the high-resolution graphics make it easy to read your weight and it depicts a custom set of key measurements on the screen (so you don't have to go to the app every time). This scale connects via Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and is easy to set up when you download the Vesync app. In the app, you can set up unlimited user profiles and customize each one. Who it’s best for: This scale is best for the user who wants a scale with an easy-to-read screen that’s safe for everyone to use. This smart scale has a 400-pound weight capacity and can also be used in Zero-Current mode, which only reads your weight and BMI and is user-friendly for pregnant people and those with implanted devices like a pacemaker. It also has a baby mode, intended to weigh infants and pets.Who shouldn’t get it: If extra data on your weight triggers unhealthy reactions, you can opt for a standard scale that doesn’t provide this type of information. Some people like having this information at their fingertips, but it isn’t for everyone.    ... Show more
Get it now
$80 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Display type
TFTWeight limit
400 poundsSyncs with other apps
Apple Health, Google Health Connect, FitBit, MyFitnessPal, and Samsung HealthSize
11.8 inches x 1.8 inches x1.1 inchesBattery life
Rechargeable
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best smart scale with basic readings
Greater Goods Premium Wi-Fi Scale
Pros
Scale stays true to basic readings with 4 sensors
It uses Wi-Fi connection
Cons
App interface leaves more to be desired
Lacks Bluetooth
Lacks customization
Not suitable for pregnant people or those with implanted devices
Lacks customization
Not suitable for pregnant people or those with implanted devices
Why we like it: The Greater Goods Premium Wi-Fi scale fits the bill for a smart scale that can provide basic readings. It's made up of white tempered glass so it looks sleek and blends in with most bathroom settings. The design works well with the blue backlit LCD screen. What I liked about this scale is that the display screen has a dial that lights up and goes around until it properly calculates your weight. On the same screen, it displays your muscle mass, body fat percentage, bone mass, BMI and water weight in a smaller font.Who it’s best for: If you like a simple scale with basic readings, this is your best pick. This Wi-Fi scale fits the bill for a smart scale that can provide basic readings. This scale can hold up to 400 pounds and uses four sensors to give you accurate results. If you’re looking for a scale that gives you the basic and important information you want and need, you can’t go wrong with this selection.Who shouldn’t get it: Setting up this scale was more challenging than I expected because I had to troubleshoot to make sure it was synced up to my Wi-Fi (this scale doesn't use Bluetooth). Once the scale and Weight Gurus app were synced up, it was simple to use and the results were consistent during the two-week testing period. A few times, I had issues uploading data to the app. Eventually, this issue fixed itself, but it could be because my router wasn't close to the bathroom where I was weighing myself. If you’re detail-oriented, this scale is very limited. The only metrics you'll find besides your weight are BMI, body fat, muscle mass and water weight percentage. The downside is that you can't click through each metric, nor does it give you an explanation of each one. The most you can do on the app is set a goal to lose, gain or maintain your weight and view it on a dot graph over a week, month or year. I think this scale could be improved by at least providing an explanation for each metric it provides.  ... Show more
Get it now
$40 at Amazon
$43 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Display type
LCDWeight limit
400 poundsSyncs with other apps
Fitbit, Apple Health, and Google Health ConnectSize
14.28 inches x 13.64 inchesx 1.5 inchesBattery life
Battery powered
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best smart scale for unlimited users
Eufy Smart Scale P2 Pro
Pros
Unlimited profiles for the family
Good for body recomposition
App interface is user-friendly
Cons
App rubric may be inconsistent with results
Why we like it: The scale display has big numbers for easy reading, and the screen also shows your body fat percentage and heart rate. When you open up the app, you're greeted with a customizable 3D cartoon model of yourself. The app displays your scale readings next to the rotating 360-degree 3D model. As you click through the data, you'll see a detailed list of other measurements including muscle mass, bone mass, lean body mass, skeletal muscle mass and more.I liked that the app gives you a practical approach to body recomposition, if that's your goal. Instead of focusing on the number on the scale, you can use the measuring tape provided with the scale to get your measurements and manually input them in the app. This is a helpful way to track changes that the scale may not be able to properly read. If you're looking for a scale that allows you to have unlimited profiles and a user-friendly interface, you'll like the Eufy Smart Scale P2 Pro.Who it’s best for: Many scales have a limited number of users on their platform but the Eufy Smart Scale P2 Pro is set up for unlimited profiles. The Renpho, Etekcity and Sportneer smart scales also allow unlimited users, but the Eufy smart scale has a better way of displaying each person's results via its app interface. Once you download the Eufylife app, setup is easy, and the scale has Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity. You can then set up specific profiles for the people who'll use it. This scale has a 400-pound weight capacity and can also weigh pets and babies. Additionally, there's a simple mode you can select to weigh yourself safely if you're pregnant or have an implanted device. Who shouldn’t get it: There were times when I had to reposition the scale on the floor because it was having a hard time setting itself to a zero reading. It’s something to consider if you’re looking for a scale that gives you an accurate reading each time. I remember when the scale got temperamental, it would take me at least four tries, lifting and placing the scale on the floor until I got a zero reading.  ... Show more
Get it now
$45 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Display type
LEDWeight limit
400 poundsSyncs with other apps
Apple Health, Google Health Connect, and FitbitSize
11 inches x 11 inches x 1 inchesBattery life
About 6 months
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Smart scale with the most third-party app connections
Withings Body Plus
Pros
Connects to hundreds of third-party apps
High-end look to scale
Uses Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
Cons
Not ideal for pregnant people or those with implanted devices
The app isn't the most user-friendly
The carpet feet can be flimsy
Lacks body composition readings
Why we like it: The Withings Body Plus scale is a good option if you want the ability to sync more than 100 third-party apps like Apple Health, Google Health Connect and MyFitnessPal to your scale. It's a large, sleek, mirrored glass scale that has four high-precision sensors to give you the most accurate readings. I was impressed by the number of third-party apps you could connect with the Withings Body Plus. Although the app only presents a few, you can go into the respective third-party apps and connect the scale through there as well. I stuck with connecting my Apple Health account to the scale and it uploads your step count, any workouts you've done and your heart rate. The weight measurements over two weeks were consistent overall. Sometimes, they were off by a couple of ounces or a pound or two but nothing overwhelmingly different. If you like to be connected to multiple apps and want a scale that can handle all of it, you'll appreciate the Withings Body Plus scale. Who it’s best for: If you like having your health data synced across multiple third-party apps, this is the smart scale for you. What’s nice is it doesn’t matter if have an iPhone or Android because you can connect to Apple Health or Google Health, among other apps. So anyone in your family can connect to this scale regardless of the type of smartphone they own. I’d also recommend this scale to someone who may prefer to weigh themselves in a carpeted area because it comes with carpet feet to keep the scale even and balanced. Who shouldn’t get it: This may not be the ideal scale for pregnant people or those with implanted devices because it doesn't provide a specific mode that turns off electrical currents. The scale comes with carpet feet, which can be placed at the bottom of the scale on each corner. The carpet feet weren't my favorite accessory because sometimes the scale wobbled on my tiled bathroom floor and I had to reposition it until the surface felt even. Hence why it’s a better fit for a carpeted floor. For the most part, the Withings Body Plus scale provided a fast reading, but at times, it lagged. The LED display screen has triangles blinking on each corner as the scale works to get a measurement. When it gathers the information, the triangles disappear and the calculated weight remains steady. Sometimes this takes longer than anticipated, but I'm not sure if it's the scale's fault or user error.    ... Show more
Get it now
$119 at Withings
Specs & Configurations
Display type
LEDWeight limit
396 PoundsSyncs with other apps
Google Health Connect, Apple Health, Runkeeper, Strava, Samsung Health and MyFitnessPalSize
12.8 inches x 12.8 inches x 0.9 inchesBattery life
18 months
Add to compareBest Smart Scale for 2025 compared
Smart Scales Display typeWeight LimitCompatible AppsSizeBattery lifeWyze Scale X LED400 poundsApple Health, Google Fit, and Fitbit11.8 inches x 11.8 inches x 1.18 inches22 monthsRenpho Smart Wi-Fi Bluetooth Body Fat Scale- Premium LED396 poundsSamsung Health, Apple Health, and Google Fit11.1 inches x 11.1 inches x 1 inchesBattery-poweredEtekcity HR Smart Fitness Scale Wi-Fi and Bluetooth400 poundsApple Health, Google Fit, FitBit, MyFitnessPal, and Samsung Health11.8 inches x 1.8 inches x1.1 inchesRechargableGreater Good Premium Wi-Fi Scale Wi-Fi400 poundsFitbit, Apple Health, and Google Fit 12.6 x 12.6 x 0.9 inchesBattery-poweredWithings Body Plus Wi-Fi and Bluetooth396 poundsGoogle Fit, Apple Health, Runkeeper, Strava, Samsung Health and MyFitnessPal12.8 inches x 12.8 inches x 0.9 inches18 monthsEufy Smart Scale P2 Pro Wi-Fi and Bluetooth400 poundsApple Health, Google Fit, and Fitbit11.8 inches x 1.8 inches x1.1 inchesRechargableHomedics Luxe Glo Scale LED400 poundsApple Health, Google Fit and Fitbit11.8” x 11.8” with 5mm tempered glassBattery powered, 4 AAA batteries included
How we tested the best smart scales
Ease of use: I looked at how easy it is to sync up the scale and app using Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. Additionally, how easy it is to interpret the weight and other data provided by the scale. Design: I looked at whetherthe scale is aesthetically pleasing and designed to blend into different rooms. Consistency: I looked atweight across the board for two weeks and made sure it was consistent for multiple weigh-ins at the same time each day.  App measurements: I looked at the app interface and the measurements provided, as well as how detailed and easy it is to access and read.
Other smart scales tested
FitTrack Dara BMI Smart Scale: I wanted to give this smart scale a chance because it had the most body composition measurements, but it never functioned properly when I weighed myself. The only data it provided was my weight, but it never seemed to capture the rest.
FitTrack Dara BMI Smart Scale
$60 at Amazon
Omron Body Composition Monitor and Scale: I had a hard time setting this scale up. I tried troubleshooting and following the directions it came with, but to no avail.
Omron Body Composition Monitor and Scale
$80 at Amazon
Factors to consider
Price: Consider how much you're willing to spend on a scale. Just because a scale is expensive, doesn't mean it's the best option. There are inexpensive scales that can provide the same measurements.Features: Determine if you're going to want various measurement modes such as for pregnancy, pets or children.Accuracy: Smart scales aren't always accurate and the only way to get the most precise measurement is through a DEXA (or DXA) scan. Consult with a medical professional if you're interested in this data.Electrical currents: If you wear a pacemaker or implanted medical device, make sure the scale offers an option to shut off electrical currents. Currents sent by scale are generally safe, but they can potentially interfere with the device and ruin it.Weight limit: It's important to consider the weight capacity on a scale since you want to make sure it can handle various weights. This is also something to consider if you are pregnant and want to safely weigh yourself.Body image: If you struggle with body image or are recovering from an eating disorder, consider discussing with your doctor if owning a smart scale is the right choice for you. It's also helpful to know that some scales don't show you your weight or have a similar mode setting.App compatibility: If you'd like to sync up the scale to shared apps, make sure your app of choice is compatible with the scale.Connectivity: Decide if you'd like your smart scale to connect to Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or both. Some allow both connections, while others only allow one.User-friendly interface: Choose a smart scale that has an interface that's easy to read and follow. This will also be helpful if there will be multiple users.Durability: Choose a smart scale that is long-lasting and can handle multiple recharges or battery changes. If you're concerned about your scale breaking down too soon, make sure you know its warranty.Privacy policy: If privacy is of concern, make sure you read the privacy policy of the smart scale you plan to purchase first.Battery life: Whether you're going to use the scale often or occasionally, you want a smart scale with decent battery life that doesn't require constant recharging. Best smart scale practices
Weigh yourself at the same time: To get a consistent reading when using any scale, it's important to weigh yourself first thing in the morning before you've drunk or eaten anything. "You should weigh yourself without clothes, or minimal clothing, and if you do so, try to wear the same clothing each time you weigh yourself," said Stella Lucia Volpe, professor and head of the Department of Human Nutrition, Foods and Exercise at Virginia Tech.Volpe recommends weighing yourself no more than once a week. "If you weigh yourself more than that, you will see fluctuations in your body weight, and it may be frustrating if you are trying to lose weight," she said. Choose an even surface: You want to make sure your scale is on an even surface otherwise that imbalance will throw off the reading. Make sure to weigh yourself in the same place each time. Keep in mind that the smart scale can be flawed: Remember that just because a smart scale can offer more data than an analog scale doesn't always mean it's better. "Smart scales have not been shown to have high accuracy and cannot be compared to the 'gold standard' measures of assessing bone mineral density and body composition as it relates to body fat and lean body mass, which is via using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry," said Volpe. Most people don't have access to a Dexa scan, so the next best thing is a smart scale. "The smart scale can provide an estimation of body fat and total body water; but note that the 'gold standard' ways to measure these would provide the more accurate data," Volpe explains.Make sure it's set to zero: As with any scale, you want to make sure that it's set to zero so you get an accurate reading.Remember your weight fluctuates: It's easy to get caught up in a number, but remember your weight is a range instead of an exact number and will fluctuate throughout the day. Fluctuations can be affected if you work out, eat more than normal, go to the bathroom or even if your muscles are sore and retaining fluid. Know that the data are estimations: Smart scales include data on your heart rate, bone mineral density, total body water, body fat and more. Keep in mind these are estimations based on your age, sex and body weight. Therefore, these scales are not completely accurate. "Knowing that these scales are providing an estimation -- but without the highest of accuracy -- is important, but can help provide some guidance to the user of these products, especially when many individuals may not have the ability to have their bone mineral density and body composition evaluated by DXA," said Volpe. Smart scale FAQs
How does a smart scale work?
Smart scales rely on a technology called bioelectrical impedance analysis. The scales send small electrical impulses through your body -- up your leg, across your hips and down your other leg -- measuring resistance and then using a mathematical formula to give you information about your body fat percentage, water weight, bone density and lean muscle mass, among other things. If you wear an implanted medical device or are pregnant, it's important to check that the scale lets you use it in a weight-only mode or has the option to shut off electrical currents.
Show more
Are smart scales accurate?
A smart scale's information can give you some insight into your body composition but it's not the most accurate technology. Dr. Hector Perez, a bariatric surgeon, suggests if you want a better idea of your body composition, it's always best to consult with a doctor or other health-care professional. "They may have you do a DEXA scan, measure you with skinfold calipers or use other methods to get a more accurate reading," he says. A DEXA scan is a full-body scan that provides the most accurate data on your body composition. It can read everything from your bone mineral density to your fat and lean tissue.
Show more
Is a smart scale worth it?
A smart scale can be a useful part of your wellness regimen if you're looking for general insight into your body's changes over time. Take the actual numbers with a grain of salt because they only tell you so much. If you need to track health metrics for specific reasons, consult with a doctor or health-care provider about getting accurate numbers. We chose the smart scales on this list based on how consistent and user-friendly they are.
Show more
Do scales lose accuracy over time?
Yes, scales can lose accuracy over time and may require recalibration.
Show more
Are smart scales beneficial for metrics besides weight?
Smart scales may measure multiple body metrics, such as body composition, muscle mass and body fat percentage. However, a smart scale is more accurate with the weight metric over the others. If you need accurate numbers for the metrics other than weight, it's best to get DEXA in patient care. But a smart scale is helpful for tracking weight changes over time.
Show more
Who should not use a smart scale?
Smart scales send out an electric current to calculate bioelectrical impedance which is used to calculate BMI. While this is generally safe for most users, pregnant women and users with implants like pacemakers should avoid smart scales.
Show more
How can I check if my smart scale is accurate?
The easiest way to check your smart scale's accuracy is to use a known weight for calibration. For example, a a bag of sugar or flour can serve in a pinch to check the accuracy of a scale.
Show more
Can multiple users use a smart scale?
Yes, most modern smart scales allow multiple user profiles ensuring that you only need one scale for your entire family.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Also written by
Amelia Ti Medical ReviewerAlso written by
Nasha Addarich Martínez Managing Editor
Fitness Guides
Fitness Equipment
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Exercise Bike
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Home Exercise Equipment
Best Smart Home Gym Workouts
Fitness Accessories
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Walking Shoes for Men
Best Walking Shoes for Women
Best Running Shoes for Men
Best Running Shoes for Women
Best Compression Socks
Best Foam Roller
Fitness Tech
Best Massage Gun
Best Smart Scale
Best Mirror Workout
Best Fitness Workout Apps
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors
Tonal Review
Theragun Review
Fitness Nutrition
Best Protein Powders
Best Protein Shakes
Fitness Supplements that Work
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Foods for Building Muscle
Best Weight Loss Programs
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.