Dinner on a Dime: Our 5 Favorite Cheap Meal Delivery Services - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessNutrition Meal Kits
The 5 Cheapest Meal Delivery Services We Tested (and Loved)
We've tested all the top meal kit and prepared meal services. These are the best budget options that won't break the bank.
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Written by
Corin Cesaric
Article updated on August 25, 2025 at 12:04 PM PDT
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Corin Cesaric Editor Corin Cesaric is a Flex Editor at CNET. She received her bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri-Columbia. Before joining CNET, she covered crime at People Magazine and national and international news at NBC Local Television Stations. Expertise Home | Health | Energy | Climate Change | AI | Appliances
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Why You Can Trust CNET
12345 Years of Cooking66676869707172737475 Meal Kits102030405060708090100 Prepared Meals
How we test
Our meal delivery experts have logged more than five years of cooking more than 75 meal kits and tasting upwards of 100 prepared meals, from popular meal delivery services to help land on our list of the best cheap meal subscriptions.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If saving money on food is your goal, cutting down on delivery and dining out is a good place to start. A recent CNET survey found that the average adult spends more than $4,000 yearly on restaurant food. Cooking at home is a natural foil for a bloated food budget, and a cheap meal delivery service makes it easy to enjoy healthy, flavorful dishes without the hassle. As a bonus, meal kits cut down on grocery waste since they only send you the ingredients you need. With plenty of budget-friendly choices -- some as cheap as $6 per serving -- you can save time, eat well and even cut costs. Our Picks
Best cheap meal kit overall EveryPlate
Jump to details
See at EveryPlate
Jump to details
Another great option for cheap meal kits Blue Apron
Jump to details
See at Blue Apron
Jump to details
Best cheap prepared meal kits CookUnity
Jump to details
See at CookUnity
Jump to details
Another good option for cheap prepared meals Factor
Jump to details
See at Factor
Jump to details
Best cheap vegan and vegetarian meals Mosaic Foods
Jump to details
See at Mosaic Foods
Jump to details
Table of Contents
The 5 Cheapest Meal Delivery Services We Tested (and Loved)
What's the best cheap meal delivery service overall?
Cheapest meal delivery services for 2025
Comparing the cheapest meal kits and prepared meals
How we test meal kits and meal delivery services
Factors to consider when choosing a cheap meal delivery service
Why you can trust us
Cheap meal delivery FAQs
What's the best cheap meal delivery service overall?
EveryPlate has the cheapest meal kits of any service I tried. David Watsky/CNETThere are plenty of reasons to delve into the world of meal kits and prepared meal services. For one, groceries aren't as cheap as they used to be but meal kit prices have remained relatively stable, which in some cases make them a better bargain in 2025 than buying groceries to make the same meal. And for those worried about committing to a subscription, one of our top picks, Blue Apron, just did away with that requirement.With all this to consider, you might be wondering what the best cheap meal delivery service actually is. After much testing, I've found that there are plenty of options with services as cheap as $6 a serving. If you're looking for the most affordable meal kits, you can't go wrong with EveryPlate or Mosaic Foods, which is a vegetarian favorite. At CNET, we've tested EveryPlate numerous times over the years, and the budget-friendly option is the best cheap meal kit delivery service for several years running.There are great budget-friendly options available, including services that offer nutritious vegan meals and meal kits for $6 per serving. For those looking to elevate their meals, some meal kit services even include steak and seafood in their standard plans without extra charges. Here are the most affordable meal delivery services in 2025, plus, why they impressed us.
Cheapest meal delivery services for 2025Filter by
all
Meal Kit
Prepared Meal
Variety
Healthy
Vegan
Showing 5 of 5 Results
David Watsky/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
Seafood dishes will cost you a few bucks extra. David Watsky/CNET
Best cheap meal kit overall
EveryPlate
8.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Excellent value with plans starting at $6 a serving
Easy to execute and tons of family-friendly options
Option to swap proteins and sides
Cons
Not many low-carb or plant-based options
$11 extra for shipping
Why we picked EveryPlate: EveryPlate's affordable meal kits were all solid and our testers found them easy to execute. This is also the cheapest meal kit, with plans as low as $6 a serving. EveryPlate meal kits are easy to prepare and I loved everything I made in multiple rounds of testing.EveryPlate's plans and website are simple, they're intuitive and the food is satisfying. There are twenty-seven recipes per week, typically one featuring chicken or ground beef, a few pork chop recipes and a few plant-based meals. You won't get beef or seafood unless you shell out for premium meals, and there aren't many options for vegans.That said, after three CNET editors tested EveryPlate, we were pleasantly surprised with how much we liked the meals. You won't find much high-end, upscale cuisine or complicated recipes, but you will find satisfying comfort food, such as hoisin meatloaf with mashed potatoes, cheeseburgers, umami pork chops and sweet potato quesadillas. Who is it for:This meal kit is a great option for beginner cooks since the meal kits are easy to execute, and the service is also a great option for those new to meal kits since they're the most affordable option.Who should avoid it:Since there are only a handful of vegetarian options, this might not be the best choice for vegetarians or vegans.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at EveryPlate
Specs & Configurations
Pricing
Starts at $6 per servingType
Meal kitRecipes per week
25+Good for
Healthy, family-friendly, comfort food, picky eaters, quick and easyShipping cost
$11Sample menu
Sesame pork bowls; Southwest rajas quesadillas; creamy Dijon chicken Score Breakdown
Taste/results
8
Value
10
Ease of recipes
9
Recipe variety
8
Healthiness
7
Add to compare
Corin Cesaric/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
Seared salmon and cumin Sichuan glaze Corin Cesaric/CNET
Another great option for cheap meal kits
Blue Apron
Pros
A standard plan includes steak and seafood recipes
Recipes are interesting and easy to make
Excellent value if you choose a larger plan
Cons
Doesn't allow for much customization
Expensive if you only order two meals per week
No vegan options
Why we picked Blue Apron: Blue Apron is a classic example of a quality meal delivery service. One of the original providers, it also stands out for its eco-friendliness.Blue Apron is one of the original meal kit services and one of the best. Blue Apron topped our list of best meal delivery services for 2025 with a wide range of excellent recipes, all affordable. Plans start at $8 a serving.With Blue Apron, you can order bistro steaks and roasted trout dinners even when you sign up for the standard plan. Most other services charge extra for those premium proteins. In addition to solid meal kits, Blue Apron is the most eco-friendly service of the major players, according to a recent study.Who is it for:Blue Apron meal kits are great for families since the price per serving drops to $8 a portion if you choose four recipes for four. They're also great for novice cooks who want to elevate their weekly dinner routine.Who should avoid it:Vegans would be better off choosing a service like Mosaic Foods or Purple Carrot.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at Blue Apron
Specs & Configurations
Pricing
Starts at $8 per servingType
Meal kitMeal options per week
70+Good for
Pescatarian, diabetes-friendly, low-calorie, picky eaters, families, quick meals.Shipping cost
$10Sample menu
Pork belly fried rice; Lemon-caper salmon; Poblano and sausage gnocchi
Add to compare
Corin Cesaric/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
Even before heating up the meals, they looked delicious.
Corin Cesaric/CNET
Best cheap prepared meal kits
CookUnity
8.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Enormous selection of diverse meals
Lots of options for folks on a special diet including plant-based, keto, Whole30 and more
Cons
Pricier if you order a small plan
Some meals were shockingly high in sodium
Extra $10 for shipping
Why we liked CookUnity: The CookUnity meals were tasty and diverse. Whether you're craving Haitian vegetable stew or red wine-braised short rib, you can order them for lunch or dinner. The more you buy, the cheaper they get, but you can incur an upcharge for some of the premium options.Because there are so many options, this is a great way to diversify your palette. There are also plenty of low-carb, vegan, and paleo options, so this is a good meal delivery service if you're trying to stick to a specific diet.Who is it for:This meal kit is ideal for those who don't have the time or desire to meal prep during the week. All you have to do is pop them in the microwave or heat the meal on the stove, and they're ready to eat -- no prep needed! Who should avoid it:Although some meal options have less sodium than others, many of them are unusually high. This service might not be the best choice for someone on a low-sodium diet.  ... Show more
Get it now
See at CookUnity
Specs & Configurations
Pricing
Starts at $11 per servingType
Prepared meal serviceRecipes per week
100+Good for
Special diets, including plant-based, keto, Whole30Shipping cost
$10Sample menu
Chickpea & spinach-stuffed sweet potato, pappardelle with beef ragù, Indian butter shrimp curry Score Breakdown
Freshness
9
Taste/results
9
Value
8
Recipe variety
10
Healthiness
8
Add to compare
Corin Cesaric/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
The six meals we taste-tested in the office. Corin Cesaric/CNET
Another good option for cheap prepared meals
Factor
8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Plenty of meal options per week to fit any diet or preference
Dietitian-approved meals available
Can shop by dietary preferences
Cons
Some meats were tough and not tender
High sodium content in many meals
Why we liked Factor: Factor meals are delivered fresh instead of frozen, which was a high point for us. They target the health, fitness, and diet crowds. A generous amount of lean proteins, such as chicken and salmon, along with greens, cauliflower, grains, beans, and other high-protein, low-calorie foods, are available to choose from. Who is it for:This is a good option for someone on a specific diet since many meals are keto and paleo-friendly. You can also use filters to search for meals that fit your taste, nutrition, and diet preferences. Plus, there are about six or seven vegetarian meals per week. Who should avoid it:This is slightly more expensive than CookUnity, so if you're on a tight budget but still want a prepared meal kit, CookUnity may be the better option.
... Show more
Get it now
See at Factor
Specs & Configurations
Pricing
Starting at $12.50 per mealType
Prepared mealMeal options per week
35+Good for
Keto, paleo and high-protein dietsShipping cost
$10Sample menu
Roasted garlic chicken, baja salmon, butternut squash & sage chicken macaroni Score Breakdown
Freshness
9
Taste/results
8
Value
7
Recipe variety
8
Healthiness
8
Add to compare
Anna Gragert/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
This was one of my favorites and I especially enjoyed the plantains. Anna Gragert/CNET
Best cheap vegan and vegetarian meals
Mosaic Foods
9.2
/10
SCORE
Pros
Food is some of the best we tried
Hearty and filling recipes
Skillful use of plant-based proteins like jackfruit and lentils
Cons
Vegan pizzas are just OK
The occasional bland meal
Why we picked Mosaic Foods: This plant-based meal delivery service had some of the best, healthy prepared meals of any service I tried. Meals are also affordable.We sampled about a dozen of Mosaic Food's plant-based prepared meal offerings, and the vegetarian prepared meal delivery service had an astoundingly high hit rate. Mosaic uses bold and interesting global flavors and creative meat substitutes such as tofu, jackfruit, cauliflower, and vegan sausages to create tasty and satisfying vegetarian meals -- even for this omnivore. There are some vegan meals, but many use dairy products, so vegans must choose their Mosaic meals more carefully.Mosaic offers a quick breakfast with plant-based bowls, flatbreads, oat bowls, and smoothies. It's an affordable way for a family looking to cut meat out one or several nights per week to get dinner on the table. You can choose one of three plans, choose between six, 12, and 18 meals, and either select your food or let Mosaic pick for you. Meals are easy to freeze, and subscription is easy to pause or cancel if you want to take a break or if meals start piling up in the fridge and freezer.Who is it for:If you're a busy vegetarian or vegan or want to incorporate more plant-based meats into your diet, this is a great meal delivery pick.In addition to a nice selection of vegetarian meals, there are great vegan options, too.Who should avoid it:This might not be the best option for picky eaters because the menu doesn't include many basic meals.
... Show more
Get it now
See at Mosaic Foods
Specs & Configurations
Pricing
Starts at $6 per serving (family meals)Type
Prepared mealMeal options per week
80Good for
Vegan, vegetarian, paleo, gluten-free, low-calorieShipping cost
$10 or free for orders of 12 itemsSample menu
Peanut tofu bowl; coconut chickpea curry; eggplant moussaka Score Breakdown
Freshness
9
Taste/results
9
Value
9
Recipe variety
9
Healthiness
10
Add to compareComparing the cheapest meal kits and prepared meals
BrandMeal service type	Recipes per weekStarting price per serving	CNET rating EveryPlate Meal kit (cooking needed)25+$68.8Blue Apron Meal kit (cooking needed)70+$89CookUnity Prepared meal service (heat and serve)100+$118.8Factor Prepared meal service (heat and serve)35+$12.507.7Mosaic Foods Meal kit (cooking needed)50+$69.2
How we test meal kits and meal delivery services
We cooked our way through dozens of meal kits from all of the most popular services. David Watsky/CNETOver the past few years, editors at CNET have tested nearly every meal kit delivery and prepared meal delivery service we could get our hands on, including the best budget meal delivery services. Many of the menu options for the meal delivery services I've listed include nutritious plant-based food or high-protein recipes with lots of veggies and lean meats.To test each cheap meal delivery service, I tried at least four and sometimes as many as 10 meals from any given service. In 2025, my fellow editors retested the services to ensure they stood the test of time. We always choose a range of meals from the various menus and meal plan offerings. For instance, if a meal subscription service offers vegan or vegetarian meals, our wellness editor Anna Gragert, who's been a vegetarian for over 20 years, tested it this year. We also mixed up the cuisine types to include pasta, meat dishes, bowls and other various styles offered by the brand. To test the best cheap meal kits, there was another set of standards and protocols to adhere to. Here's more on how we test meal kits at CNET.
Factors to consider when choosing a cheap meal delivery service
CostAfter you've picked between meal kits or meal delivery, you'll want to find a service within your budget. Meal kits with recipes can cost as little as $6 a serving, and they include basic menus and no-frills recipes. More expensive services include recipes with more exotic ingredients, high-end cuts of meat, and organic produce, but they can cost as much as $15 or $20 a serving. Meal kit or prepared meal deliveryThe first big decision you'll make is whether you want meal kits, which require some prep work and cooking, or a prepared meal service that sends fully cooked meals ready to heat and eat. Meal kits will demand more of your time and energy but they'll also cost a little less per serving. Prepared meals require almost no time and energy, other than what it takes to actually eat the food, but typically run a few dollars more per serving.
Blue Apron is budget-friendly and includes steak and seafood options. David Watsky/CNETHealthinessWhile most meal delivery services have healthy options, some are healthier. Specific meal kits and delivery services are better than others if you want to eat low-calorie, low-carb, plant-based, or pescatarian food. This list of the healthiest meal delivery services for 2025 is a good place to find the most nutritious options.
A spread of Mosaic'd plant-based prepared meals. David Watsky/CNETNumber of meals per weekWith almost every service, the more meals or servings you order per delivery, the cheaper it becomes per meal. Ideally, you'll want to determine precisely how much food makes sense for your household. If you can't imagine yourself cooking more than twice per week, don't order more than two meal kits because they typically won't last more than a week in the fridge. Most prepared meals either arrive frozen or can be frozen after unboxing. That means it's less of an issue if you order too many meals on your first go-around. Most services allow you to change the number of meals or servings in your plan even after you've started.  Why you can trust us
Our meal delivery experts have logged more than five years and have cooked more than 75 meal kits, and tested more than 100 prepared meals, from popular services to help land on our list of the best and cheapest meal delivery services.
Cheap meal delivery FAQs
What is the cheapest meal delivery service?
From our list, EveryPlate offers the cheapest meal kits, with most plans clocking in around $6 per serving. With family meals clocking in at $6 a serving and single meals around $11, Mosaic Foods is the cheapest prepared meal service we've tested.
Show more
What is the healthiest meal delivery service?
When it comes to meal kits, you have many options, and most services provide weekly recipes that are low on calories but still filling. Depending on your weight loss goals, a healthy prepared meal delivery or meal kit service can help. Factor offers a generous amount of lean proteins available to choose from.
Show more
What's the difference between meal kits and premade meal delivery?
Some of the services listed here are healthy prepared meal delivery services, sending fully cooked meals -- often frozen or partially frozen -- and ready to eat when you receive them. Others include health-focused meal kits with pre-measured ingredients boxed up and ready for easy weeknight cooking. There's a stark difference between meal kits and meal delivery, but both make dinnertime easier and can translate into healthier eating choices. Plus, we sussed out the best healthy meal delivery services for those on special diets like keto or paleo or for those who wish to eat organic prepared meals and meal kits.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen
David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week.
Read full bio
Also written by
Corin Cesaric Editor
Nutrition Guides
Meal Delivery
Best Meal Kit Delivery Service
Best Healthy Meal Delivery Service
Best Cheap Meal Delivery Service
Hungryroot Review
EveryPlate Review
Best Vegan Meal Delivery Service
Best Vegetarian Meal Delivery Service
Best Keto Meal Delivery
Best Grocery Delivery Service
Fresh N Lean Review
Blue Apron vs. Hello Fresh
Dieting Program Guides
Best Weight Loss Programs
Optavia Diet Review
Noom Diet Review
Nutrisystem Diet Review
Weight Watchers Diet Review
Noom vs. Weight Watchers
Vitamin and Supplement Guides
Best Multivitamins
Best Multivitamins for Men
Best Multivitamins for Women
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Probiotics
Best Supplements to Gain Weight
Best Vitamin Subscription
Best Vitamins for Energy
Best Vitamins and Supplements for Joint Health
Best Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.