Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
My Account
Login
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
nature briefing
article
NATURE BRIEFING
17 September 2025
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Researchers are using AI tools to decipher the meanings of animal communications, with the hope of one day being able to talk with them. Plus, how a comb jelly orients itself and the climate scientists on a quest to digitize handwritten weather records.
By
Flora Graham
Flora Graham
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Sign up for Nature Briefing
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Hello Nature readers, would you like to get this Briefing in your inbox free every day? Sign up here.Thousands of paper documents in the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s meteorological archives are now being digitized.Credit: Derrick Muheki/INERA DRCScientists rescue lost weather recordsCrucial climate questions are spurring researchers to tap into vast repositories of handwritten weather records languishing in archives all over the world. For example, climate scientist Derrick Muheki spent two months scanning thousands of pages of weather logs in a remote weather station in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and his MeteoSaver machine-learning tool was able to transcribe 90% of the contents. The resulting data will provide crucial information about how conditions have changed over time in the world’s second largest rainforest. Another group is working to digitize thousands of logbooks from Danish ships from the 1800s covering the Atlantic Ocean and the North Sea.Nature | 6 min readMysterious changes near Earth’s coreMaterial deep inside Earth — thousands of kilometres down, near the planet’s core — has undergone a mysterious shift. Scientists spotted signs of the change in measurements of the planet's gravity, recorded around 2007 by the US–German GRACE satellites. Researchers think that the movement could be linked to a type of mineral called a perovskite, in rocks near the bottom of Earth’s mantle, that changed its structural configuration in response to the crushing pressures deep inside the planet.Nature | 5 min readReference: Geophysical Research Letters paperFirst ‘connectome’ of a nerve netA map of the mesh-like nervous system of a comb jelly — one of the oldest animals around, evolutionarily speaking — reveals how Mnemiopsis leidyi orients itself in the briny deep. The study shows how brain-mapping techniques can be used on “some of the weirder nervous systems”, says neurobiologist and biophysicist John Tuthill, who was the reviewing editor of the paper. “That’s a really effective way to kind of do comparative neuroscience.”The Transmitter | 5 min readReference: eLife paperA new connectome suggests that similar neural circuits evolved in very different animals — comb jellies and marine segmented worms — to control the little hair-like cilia that they wave to orient themselves. It’s “a fascinating example of how neural circuits may convergently evolve to solve common sensorimotor challenges”, write the study’s authors. (Courtesy of Kei Jokura)Features & opinionI only speak English, but I’m learning WhaleBy studying the vocalizations of primates, birds and whales, researchers have spotted features of animal communication once thought unique to human language. To probe deeper, some researchers are turning to artificial intelligence tools to explore whether we can infer meaning from such communications. Their research raises a tantalizing question: if we can decode the ‘language’ of animals, could we one day talk back? If it’s possible, there are ethical issues to iron out, such as the impact it could have on animals’ behaviour, say researchers.Nature | 11 min readThe trouble with anti-amyloidsIn the past decade, the arrival of anti-amyloid therapies has provided hope for people diagnosed with early-stage Alzheimer’s disease in the United States. These drugs can slow the accumulation of amyloid-β in the brain — one of the hallmark symptoms of Alzheimer’s. But despite their promise, the drugs have been mired in controversy. They come with a considerable risk of serious side effects such as brain swelling and bleeding, and there’s still a question mark over whether their effect slows the cognitive decline associated with the disease.Nature | 10 min readThis article is part of Innovations In Alzheimer’s Disease, an editorially independent supplement published in Scientific American and Nature produced with financial support from Eisai Inc.How a trip to Alpha Centauri fell apartThe Breakthrough Starshot project launched with blinding scientific starpower: astronaut Mae Jemison and cosmologist Stephen Hawking were among the luminaries on stage for the announcement in 2016. Its goal was even more lofty: A US$100-million proof-of-concept for an interstellar trip to our neighbouring star system Alpha Centauri. Now, scientists say that the project has gone quiet and it’s not known how much of billionaire tech-investor Yuri Milner’s money materialized. Nevertheless, say participants, the dream lives on. “Breakthrough changed society’s conception of this kind of stuff as a legitimate area of scientific inquiry,” says roboticist Zachary Manchester, who was involved from the beginning.Scientific American | 19 min readRead more: The Starshot story reveals the risks of relying on wealthy patrons to progress science, argues David M. Ewalt, the editor in chief of Scientific American. (5 min read)Quote of the day“What if there were a technology that could help to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, air pollution and environmental degradation, while improving health, reducing social inequality and boosting economic growth? There is, and this month it turns 200.”It’s time for a railway renaissance, argues a Nature editorial — key will be assessing the benefits of rail beyond narrow metrics of profitability or ‘time saved’ by potential passengers. (6 min read)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03041-4Today I’m delighted to hear that a museum has acquired a treasure trove of scientific items, including Rosalind Franklin’s original Photo 51, the X-ray diffraction image made in 1952 that launched our understanding of the structure of DNA. The collection has a jaw-dropping history involving a conman who posed as a neuroscientist, and years spent in obscurity in a vault overseen by high-profile geneticist J. Craig Venter.While I plot a future pilgrimage to the Science History Institute in Philadelphia, why not send me your feedback on this newsletter? Your e-mails are always welcome at briefing@nature.com.Thanks for reading,Flora Graham, senior editor, Nature BriefingWith contributions by Jacob Smith• Nature Briefing: Careers — insights, advice and award-winning journalism to help you optimize your working life• Nature Briefing: Microbiology — the most abundant living entities on our planet — microorganisms — and the role they play in health, the environment and food systems• Nature Briefing: Anthropocene — climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and geoengineering• Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course• Nature Briefing: Cancer — a weekly newsletter written with cancer researchers in mind• Nature Briefing: Translational Research — covers biotechnology, drug discovery and pharma
Related Articles
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Daily briefing: Regenerative revolution aims to future-proof European agriculture
Jobs
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Daily briefing: Regenerative revolution aims to future-proof European agriculture
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited