Crunchyroll's new manga app could revolutionize the market
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Manga from the main publishers, all in one place
Crunchyroll's new manga app could revolutionize the market
By
Francesco Cacciatore
Published 15 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Hades 2 overcomplicates a perfect formula
2 days ago
'Gotta catch 'em all': The US government is now using Pokémon to promote ICE raids
2 days ago
Cronos: The New Dawn's cats bring its protagonist to life
1 day ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Graphic: Polygon I Source images: Trigger/Toho/OLM/Toei/Shueisha/Kadokawa/Square Enix
Staying up to date with all the hottest manga is not as easy as it seems, despite the seamless access that digital publishing allows. In Japan, several publishers hold the rights to popular manga series, meaning Western readers have to juggle several different apps and subscriptions. That issue could finally be solved with the arrival of Crunchyroll Manga, a new digital manga app from the anime streaming juggernaut, launching on Oct. 9 for iOS and Android in the U.S. and Canada, with a web version to follow on Oct. 15. First announced in January, Crunchyroll Manga will offer an official first look during New York Comic Con 2025. A new press release announced the app will launch on the same day, Oct. 9, promising a revolutionary experience through a partnership with several major publishing partners, including AlphaPolis, COMPASS, Square Enix, VIZ Media, and Yen Press. Additional partners like Shueisha, J-Novel Club, ThirdlineNEXT, highstone, and more will follow in the future. The series available to read will include One Piece, Jujutsu Kaisen, Daemons of the Shadow Realm, The Apothecary Diaries, Delicious in Dungeon, My Dress-Up Darling, The Summer Hikaru Died, Lycoris Recoil, Sasaki and Miyano, Tsukimichi: Moonlit Fantasy, Maiden of the Dragon: Falling for the Demon's Lies, and many more. Even a quick glance at the list reveals the app could be the go-to choice for manga readers in the Western world. While Shueisha has its own digital manga app, Manga Plus, other publishers are much harder to access legally. Delicious in Dungeon, for example, is only available in digital volumes published by Yen Press. Square Enix also has its app, Manga UP!, but access to new chapters is limited by daily free currency. Everything else requires in-app purchases or a subscription, which can pile up quickly over different platforms, making reading manga expensive and not exactly user-friendly.
Image: Crunchyroll
Crunchyroll Manga promises fans can get rid of multiple subscriptions and purchases by having the most popular series all in one place. This will be a premium add-on to the Crunchyroll subscription service with the following pricing:
Crunchyroll Fan subscription + Manga – $11.99 USD / $15.49 CAD per month (includes Manga add-on at $4.00 USD / $5.50 CAD)
Crunchyroll Mega Fan subscription + Manga – $15.49 USD / $17.49 CAD per month (includes Manga add-on at $3.50 USD / $5.00 CAD)
If you're already paying for the Ultimate Fan tier ($15.99/month), you'll also get access to this new manga service automatically. All tiers include unlimited ad-free reading across mobile, tablet, and web, plus the ability to download chapters for offline reading. "Hundreds of chapters from hundreds of titles" will be available from day one, with new ones added later as the library expands. One thing worth noting is that there are no manga from Kodansha in the list provided by the press release. The publisher also has its own digital app, K Manga, where chapters are available through purchasable tickets. However, it could very well be that, once the full list of series available through Crunchyroll Manga is revealed, popular Kodansha manga such as Attack on Titan, Vinland Saga, Shangri-La Frontier, and Gachiakuta will be included too. These all have anime that are available to watch on Crunchyroll, after all. Having all the best anime and manga available through a single service could truly be a revolution for Western fans, and this could also lead to a decrease in manga piracy, a persistent issue that keeps damaging the industry, despite many attempts to curb it.
Manga
Entertainment
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
The Xbox experiment is actually dead then, huh?
1 day ago
D&D icon R.A. Salvatore might be done writing Drizzt
2 days ago
I need these new Over the Garden Wall collectibles from Mondo in my life ASAP
2 days ago
I played an hour of Pokémon Legends: Z-A and am smitten with its chaotic battles
More from our brands
The Best Anime Movies On Crunchyroll, Ranked
The 20 Best BL Anime & Where To Watch Them
55 of the Best Anime On Crunchyroll
The Differences Between Manga, Manhwa, & Manhua, Explained
Best Anime On Crunchyroll (March 2025)
Crunchyroll's New Hit Shonen Is Coming for One Piece's Anime Throne
10 Best Anime You Can Watch for Free on Crunchyroll Right Now
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
I hate to say it but Avatar has replaced Star Wars in my heart
5 things I loved about Alien: Earth (and 5 more that I hated)
Coming-of-age horrors cut deep in Consume Me
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.