Your next Android phone could get a significant performance boost (Samsung models included) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Your next Android phone could get a significant performance boost (Samsung models included)
The latest Qualcomm chipset brings benefits across speed, photography, videography, and battery life.
Written by
Sabrina Ortiz, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 7:21 a.m. PT
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysQualcomm launches Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 chipset. It features the Qualcomm Oryon CPU and next-gen Qualcomm Adreno GPU.Improvements should enable better phone speeds, camera, AI, and more.Nearly every major smartphone launch in the past year has shared a common theme: the devices have an increasing amount of on-device, advanced AI features. These experiences are only made possible by the chipset powering the phone, and Qualcomm is making even more possible with the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5.On Wednesday, at Qualcomm's Snapdragon Summit, the company unveiled its newest mobile platform, the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 chipset. This chipset features upgrades to the CPU and GPU to power better camera, AI, and gaming experiences across future smartphones from partners, which have included Samsung, Oppo, and OnePlus. Also: Report: OpenAI will launch its own AI chip next yearOne of the biggest standouts is its new 3rd-gen Qualcomm Oryon CPU, which the company said is the fastest CPU in the world with peak performance at up to 4.6GHz. This upgrade should translate into faster speeds when using your device, including when multitasking, gaming, launching apps, and more. I ran the Geekbench 6 CPU benchmark, a CPU performance benchmark that simulates how people use smartphones in everyday life, on a reference device. It scored 3786 single-core and 12094 multi-core, which are both considered very good. In the AI-first world we live in, the Qualcomm Hexagon NPU, responsible for handling a lot of the AI load, had to get some upgrades. It now sports even more AI accelerators, enabling it to run 37% faster speeds and 16% better performance per watt, according to the company. This should enable it to run large language models (LLMs) on-device without sacrificing battery. The Qualcomm Sensing Hub, which includes on-device AI learning features such as a personal knowledge graph and Qualcomm Personal Scribe, also got enhancements that, when paired with the Qualcomm Hexagon NPU, help unlock new agentic AI experiences. Essentially, the agentic AI assistant would be personalized to your needs. Making recommendations based on the device is an important element, as it keeps all of the information that it learns about you, such as conversations, routines, and preferences, on the device. This maximizes security by forgoing having to send your information to the cloud. Also: What Nvidia's stunning $5 billion Intel bet means for enterprise AI and next-gen laptopsBeyond AI, other compute-heavy activities, such as gaming, will see improvements as well. The next-generation Qualcomm Adreno GPU achieves 23% better performance and a 20% reduction in power consumption than the Snapdragon 8 Elite chipset, according to Qualcomm. In the Geekbench 6 GPU benchmark, it scored 27925, which is also considered a competitive performance. The introduction of Adreno High Performance Memory (HPM) contributes to highly responsive gameplay. In the content-capturing realm, the Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 supports a full suite of pro-grade video tools, including recording in Advanced Professional Video (APV) Codec and Dragon fusion, a fully computational video pipeline that allows every frame to be extracted with as much detail as a quick photo and context-aware auto-focus, auto exposure, and auto-white balance. Meanwhile, Snapdragon Audio Sense is a suite of microphone technology that enables the recording of some pro-level sound with wind-noise rejection, audio zoom, and HDR audio. Photography wasn't left behind, as the Qualcomm Spectra Image Signal Processor (ISP), responsible for computational photography such as Night Vision 3.0, was upgraded to a 20-bit pipeline for 4x the dynamic range. Lastly, the Qualcomm X85 5G Modem-RF, integrated with the Qualcomm 5G AI Processor, is meant to unlock "the fastest, most battery-efficient, and reliable 5G Advanced connectivity" with peak download speeds of up to 12.5 Gbps and upload speeds of 3.7Gbps, according to the company. Disclosure: The cost of Sabrina Ortiz's travel to Maui, Hawaii, for the Snapdragon Summit was covered by Qualcomm, a common industry practice for long-distance trips. The judgments and opinions of ZDNET's writers and editors are always independent of the companies we cover.Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Changing 10 settings on my Samsung phone gave it a big performance boost
I got a glimpse of future Android smartphones - here are 3 major upgrades you can expect
Slow Android phone? Changing these 4 settings revitalized my whole system
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use