Sign up for Hardwired, the Tom's Hardware Newsletter! | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingBorderlands 4 woesAn Intel comeback?Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Tech Industry
Introducing the Tom’s Hardware Premium Beta
PC Components
How Tom's Hardware Tests, Rates and Reviews Tech Products
Tech Industry
Why parts of Tom’s Hardware now have a paywall
Gift Guides and Seasonal Sales
Best Tech and PC Hardware deals — deals on GPUs, CPUs, SSDs, Monitors, and more
Tech Industry
Industry news live: the latest news from Nvidia, Intel, and AMD
PC Building
These are the tools we use to build and maintain our tech, and they're on sale for Amazon Prime Day
Mini PCs
Mini-PC production line video shows a combination of machine automation and human efforts to make PCs
PC Components
If you want to secure that PC hardware deal during Prime Day, you’ll need an Amazon Prime membership — Here’s how to take part at no cost
Gaming PCs
Get a FREE 32-inch curved QHD gaming monitor and save $400 off a prebuilt gaming PC with AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D and Nvidia RTX 5080 in this insane Newegg deal
ASUS coupon codes
Peripherals
Back-to-school PC peripherals you didn't know you needed — hot deals on headsets, mice, keyboards, speakers, and more
PC Components
Best Back To School Tech Deals 2025: Best essential tech bargains for the new school year
PC Components
Prime Day is officially over, but here are some great deals you can still get at Amazon, Newegg, and others
Gift Guides and Seasonal Sales
The best tech deals for Labor Day 2025 — holiday savings on SSDs, CPUs, GPUs, and much more
3D Printing
Noctua's 3D printable side panel quietens Framework's Desktop
PC Components
Sign up for Hardwired, the Tom's Hardware Newsletter!
How-To
By
Matt Safford
published
9 May 2023
Did you know you can get the best of Tom's Hardware delivered to your inbox?
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
Want to make sure you don't miss the latest hardware news, reviews and how-tos? You can get all that and more delivered directly to your inbox three times a week by signing up for the Tom's Hardware newsletter below.
Each newsletter features ten hand-picked stories, across all the topics we cover, from CPUs to maker hardware, graphics cards, AI, monitors, peripherals and more. The newsletter will land in your inbox every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. All you need to do is fill out the form below.
Please let us know what you think. Reader feedback is important to us and we would love to hear your input on the topics and articles we select for you. We'll also occasionally run polls in the newsletter, so we know how you feel about current trends and happenings in the hardware world. You can also of course chime in on the Tom's Hardware Forums, where you'll find lively discussions about all things tech. Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
You may like
Introducing the Tom’s Hardware Premium Beta
How Tom's Hardware Tests, Rates and Reviews Tech Products
Why parts of Tom’s Hardware now have a paywall
TOPICS
Science
See all comments (0)
Matt SaffordAfter a rough start with the Mattel Aquarius as a child, Matt built his first PC in the late 1990s and ventured into mild PC modding in the early 2000s. He’s spent the last 15 years covering emerging technology for Smithsonian, Popular Science, and Consumer Reports, while testing components and PCs for Computer Shopper, PCMag and Digital Trends.
Read more
Introducing the Tom’s Hardware Premium Beta
How Tom's Hardware Tests, Rates and Reviews Tech Products
Why parts of Tom’s Hardware now have a paywall
Best Tech and PC Hardware deals — deals on GPUs, CPUs, SSDs, Monitors, and more
Industry news live: the latest news from Nvidia, Intel, and AMD
These are the tools we use to build and maintain our tech, and they're on sale for Amazon Prime Day
Latest in PC Components
Cooler Master debuts new 3D Heatpipe tech in new coolers
AMD launches Ryzen 9000 PRO series, flagship model tops out at 12 cores
Latest FSR 4 source code 'leak' lets you run AMD's AI upscaling tech on nearly any GPU
Corsair launches gargantuan 3,000W power supply for $599.99
Asus' dual-mode 32-inch dual-mode gaming monitor is on sale for just $500
AMD launches four new Ryzen CPUs, including cut-down Zen 4 and Zen 3 models
Latest in How-To
Hack to the Future — here's how you can write BASIC code on a modern-day PC
How to make graphical Python apps the EasyGUI way
Here's how I multi-task in the Linux terminal with Tmux
I built a configurable ADB-to-USB adaptor to use a 1990 Apple keyboard with modern Windows and USB
How to transfer and share files over a network without a USB flash drive — and with just one line of code
I'm organizing my life with a 3D printer and Bento3D — here's how you can build your own organizer
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.