This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
By
Simon Batt
Published 11 hours ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
With Silksong proving itself to be a tougher cookie than some people took it for, what better way to wind down than by playing an equally difficult (if not harder) game? If you've been on a masochistic gaming spree, you'll likely want to check out FromSoftware's title Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice. It keeps the same raw difficulty as the developer's infamous Dark Souls series, but with a brand new theme, and it's currently 50% off on Steam.
Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice is just $30 on Steam, but not for long
If you've never given Sekiro a shot, you may assume that it's just Dark Souls but with a different lick of paint. However, despite the two titles being developed by FromSoftware, they have quite a few differences. Besides the samurai theme that Sekiro has, the combat is faster and is more focused on deflecting enemy attacks. As such, even if you've played the Dark Souls series to death, there's still something new in Sekiro that you may love just as much, if not more. Here's how FromSoftware describes the game:
Carve your own clever path to vengeance in the critically acclaimed adventure from developer FromSoftware, creators of the Dark Souls series.
In Sekiro™: Shadows Die Twice you are the 'one-armed wolf', a disgraced and disfigured warrior rescued from the brink of death. Bound to protect a young lord who is the descendant of an ancient bloodline, you become the target of many vicious enemies, including the dangerous Ashina clan. When the young lord is captured, nothing will stop you on a perilous quest to regain your honor, not even death itself.
The GOTY version on Steam is currently 50% off for $30, which contains the base game plus new boss challenge modes, the ability to leave messages for other people, and some nice cosmetics. However, you only have until September 29th to take advantage of this deal, so don't delay. And if you manage to beat it, then congratulations: you've achieved one of our five gaming feats of strength every gamer holds as a badge of honor.
Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
Action RPG
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
90/100
Critics Rec:
96%
Released
March 22, 2019
ESRB
M for Mature: Blood and Gore, Violence
Developer(s)
From Software
Publisher(s)
Activision
Engine
Proprietary Engine
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
PHYSICAL
Carve your own clever path to vengeance in the critically acclaimed adventure from developer FromSoftware, creators of the Dark Souls series.
In Sekiro™: Shadows Die Twice you are the 'one-armed wolf', a disgraced and disfigured warrior rescued from the brink of death. Bound to protect a young lord who is the descendant of an ancient bloodline, you become the target of many vicious enemies, including the dangerous Ashina clan. When the young lord is captured, nothing will stop you on a perilous quest to regain your honor, not even death itself.
Explore late 1500s Sengoku Japan, a brutal period of constant life and death conflict, as you come face to face with larger than life foes in a dark and twisted world. Unleash an arsenal of deadly prosthetic tools and powerful ninja abilities while you blend stealth, vertical traversal, and visceral head to head combat in a bloody confrontation. Take Revenge. Restore Your Honor. Kill Ingeniously.
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
2 days ago
RDMA is one of the fastest ways to share files from your NAS, these are 6 reasons why you don't need it
2 days ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
17 hours ago
10 Windows features power users regret ignoring for so long
3 days ago
I finally set up Home Assistant, but here are 4 challenges I didn't expect
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
15 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
My new note-taking system uses AI, a plain text editor, and a single folder
You can win an Asus ROG Ally X by declaring your favorite game: here's how
3 reasons why I use Nvidia's DLAA over DLSS for most of my games
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.