Autism community advocate on Trump’s acetaminophen claim : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Autism community advocate on Trump’s acetaminophen claim In making unsupported claims about autism, the Trump administration is "pointing the finger" at parents and making them feel guilty, says autism community advocate Colin Killick.
Special Series Interview highlights
From 'Morning Edition' and 'All Things Considered'
Trump admin 'seems to care very little about autistic people,' says advocate
Updated September 24, 20253:14 PM ET
Originally published September 24, 20254:38 AM ET
Heard on
Morning Edition
By
Obed Manuel
,
Michel Martin
Advocate for people with autism responds to Trump's acetaminophen claims
Listen
·
4:12
4:12
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5551075/nx-s1-9465035" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
President Trump (left) looks on as Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. answers questions after delivering an announcement on "significant medical and scientific findings for America's children" in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on Sept. 22 in Washington, D.C.
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Andrew Harnik/Getty Images
The Trump administration's suggestion of a link between acetaminophen and autism may only serve to raise stigma about autism and make parents feel guilty that they directly caused their children's condition, according to Colin Killick, the executive director of the Washington-based Autistic Self Advocacy Network. President Trump said this week pregnant women should "tough it out" to avoid taking the pain reliever acetaminophen because of unproven claims that taking it heightens the risk of autism in children. "Fight like hell not to take it. There may be a point where you have to and that your. You have to work out with yourself. So don't take Tylenol," Trump said Monday, flanked by Health and Human Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. who has long argued autism may be caused by environmental factors.
Sponsor Message
Scientific and medical groups have pushed back strongly against the Trump administration's claims saying they are not supported by research. Killick, who himself has autism, said in an interview with Morning Edition that the administration is talking about autism as though its "existence is some sort of plague." He argues moves supported by the administration, including cuts to Medicaid following the passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, may only make it harder for autistic people to get support they need. People with autism and other intellectual disabilities disproportionately rely on Medicaid, according to health policy research group KFF, and those who rely on a range of long-term care options and face challenges getting private health coverage could be affected by spending cuts to the program over the next decade. "This administration talks so much about autism. It seems to care very little about autistic people," Killick said.
Health
3 thoughts from an autism researcher on Trump's acetaminophen and vaccine claims
HHS spokesperson Andrew Nixon said in an emailed statement that Killick's comments "disparage the historic actions HHS is finally taking to get answers for millions of American families" under Kennedy. "Our commitment drives us to follow the science and share critical public health information as soon as it becomes available, ensuring families are informed and communities are protected," Nixon said. White House spokesperson Kush Desai told NPR in an emailed statement that Monday's announcement featured two mothers of children with autism and that they "praised President Trump for actually listening to the questions and concerns of parents across the country – questions and concerns that this President and Administration remain committed to addressing."
Sponsor Message
Speaking to NPR's Michel Martin, Killick discussed how the Trump administration's claims are being received by the autism community and what impacts he believes they may have. This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Interview highlights Michel Martin: What was your reaction to that press conference at the White House? Colin Killick: I was horrified, but I think we've been pretty consistently horrified by what this administration has said about autism, going back to Secretary Kennedy, talking about autism destroying people and destroying families and giving this laundry list of activities that autistic people supposedly can't do. This administration talks so much about autism. It seems to care very little about autistic people. Editor's note: In April, Kennedy said many people with autism "will never pay taxes, they'll never hold a job, they'll never play baseball, they'll never write a poem, they'll never go out on a date. Many of them will never use a toilet unassisted." Martin: So this isn't the only unsupported theory out there about the causes of autism, but this is the president of the United States and the health secretary saying it. So I just wonder what kind of conversations this is sparking among people with autism and their loved ones. Killick: The people we're hearing from certainly aren't buying it, but they're outraged this has been put out there and they're outraged that mothers are being blamed. If you go back decades, they used to say that autism was caused by "refrigerator mothers" who were too cold towards their children. Now we know that's complete nonsense, but yet again, they're pointing the finger and making people feel guilt — feel like this is somehow their fault, which is ridiculous. Autism is genetic. It's inborn. Nothing makes people autistic except, you know, who they inherently are.
Sponsor Message
Martin: So what impact do you think this guidance could have, especially because it is coming from the highest levels of government? Killick: One is that it's going to lead people not to take [acetaminophen], which we certainly know that fever during pregnancy can cause all kinds of actual developmental issues. But it also just continues to ratchet up the stigma. They talk about autistic people, like our existence is some sort of plague. And they said in the press conference that their goal was eliminating autism or that they want to get the rate down to zero. And that's really troubling because folks in our community hear that and think "The only way for the rate to get to zero is for us to just not exist anymore."
Goats and Soda
World health officials reject Trump's claims that Tylenol is linked to autism
Martin: And is that because there are just so many ways that autism can present? People can hear you. You obviously know what you're talking about and you can speak very well and you can articulate these thoughts and so forth. And I guess because there's such a wide range of presentations, you figure that it just means that everybody is nonfunctional – that's kind of the message that it sends? Killick: Well, yes. And also, they're not even correct about people who have high support needs or who have intellectual disabilities, right? I know non-speaking poets. Right. I know people with intellectual disabilities who are experts in their fields like everybody. You know, the community has some level of support need and has some challenges. Martin: So before we let you go, is there anything you'd like to say now to people with or without autism who are just trying to make sense of all this. Killick: Just that there is no autism epidemic. The reason the rates have gone up is because we've expanded the definition as we've learned more about the condition and because we've put lots of money and time and effort into identifying autism earlier and more broadly, which is a good thing, it lets people get the accommodations and support that they need.
Sponsor Message
The radio version was produced by Lindsay Totty and Nia Dumas.
Correction Sept. 24, 2025
An earlier version of this article incorrectly referred to KFF as a health news outlet. KFF is a health policy research group that houses KFF Health News.
autism
autism spectrum disorder
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor