I tested the iPhone 17 for 24 hours, and I'm already questioning if I need a Pro | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
I tested the iPhone 17 for 24 hours, and I'm already questioning if I need a Pro
You're getting Pro-level features while saving hundreds.
Written by
Sabrina Ortiz, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 19, 2025 at 5:25 a.m. PT
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google. ZDNET's key takeaways The iPhone 17 got major upgrades under the hood.At the $799 price point, users are getting Pro-level features.The iPhone 17 is available for purchase in-store starting Friday.Typically, base model iPhones are often overlooked. Apple's launch of the iPhone 17 lineup made that even more the case, with the ultra-thin iPhone Air and the Cosmic Orange iPhone 17 Pro stealing all the attention. However, some time with the iPhone 17 and a look at the specs make it evident that it's the biggest win of the product season for most users.While at a glance it may look the same as last year, in different, dare I say, cuter pastel colors, after using it for a couple of minutes, you'll be able to tell that it packs major upgrades under the hood. The best part is that, despite the upgrades, it retails for the same price as last year's model, with the same storage at $799.
Also: T-Mobile will give you a free iPhone 17 Pro - here's how to qualifyTo help you decide if a trip to the Apple store on Friday is worth it, I am sharing the iPhone 17's biggest standouts (and upgrades), which I noticed after spending 24 hours with the phone.
Apple iPhone 17
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
The latest base-model iPhone features upgrades in meaningful ways, from the display refresh rate to storage to cameras.
Show more
View now at Apple ZDNET RECOMMENDS
1. The display upgrade we've been waiting for
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETWith the iPhone 17, Apple finally made the 120Hz ProMotion display, which was typically limited to Pro users, uniform across the entire lineup, even the base model. If you are coming from a previous iPhone base model and are not accustomed to higher refresh rate displays, you are in for a treat. Trust me, while subtle, you will notice the difference. Meanwhile, if you are coming from the Pro models, you won't notice a difference, with the same buttery smooth experience.
Also: Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I compared both, and here's who winsAs someone who has always purchased the Pro lineup, I had forgotten how spoiled I was by the 120Hz refresh rate until I tested the iPhone 16e and had to readjust to a 60Hz refresh rate, which was noticeably more stuttery and laggy. I am sure users who use the iPhone 17 and try to go back to prior models will have a similar experience. In addition to the refresh rate, the phone now includes thinner borders with a slightly larger 6.3-inch display, which also happens to have 3,000 nits peak outdoor brightness, the highest ever on the base model. In my limited time using it, I didn't have to strain while looking at my phone in direct sunlight. A display upgrade that is harder to spot or test is Ceramic Shield 2, which Apple claims gives it three times better scratch resistance.
2. A selfie camera that you can't go wrong with
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETThe iPhone 17 has an 18MP Center Stage front camera, an upgrade from the prior year's 12MP. While this directly translates to better-quality selfies, the real magic relates to its wider field of view. Now, you can switch from landscape to portrait mode without rotating the phone, as seen in the photo above. I am holding my phone vertically while taking a horizontal photo.
Also: I'm a long-time iPhone Pro user, but I'm seriously considering the Air for these reasonsYou can manually toggle the orientation, or, using AI, the camera can automatically widen the shot when it detects a group of people and rotate from landscape to vertical to get everyone in the frame. Using it for the first time feels a bit like magic, and while not the flashiest feature, it is wildly convenient. The rear cameras got a slight boost, too, with a 48MP Fusion main and a 48MP Fusion ultra wide replacing the 12MP ultra wide found on the iPhone 16.
3. Better value than you expect
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETTypically, Apple has always offered a 128GB tier of storage, but this year it is starting all of its phones at 256GB. So, while at face value it may seem like the iPhone 17 is $100 more expensive than the iPhone 16, retailing at $799, it is actually the same price as the iPhone 16 with 256GB. For someone like me who loves to take photos of absolutely everything, having a minimum of 256GB has always been a requirement, and in the age of digital hoarding, I think most users will be able to reap the benefits, too.
This is especially a treat considering that, in addition to the upgrades mentioned above, the iPhone 17 also has an A19 chipset and a better battery with up to 30 hours of video playback. Not only is this a good deal, but the phone's specs make it likely the best phone for most users, especially now that the gap between the base and Pro models has closed even further. Also: Verizon will give you an iPhone 17 Pro for free right now - how to qualify for the dealAt this point, I'd say shelling out the extra $300 for the iPhone 17 Pro is most likely only worth it if you are an avid photographer or an absolute power user who needs the power boost from a bigger battery, vapor chamber, and A19 Pro chip.
Apple
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Apple Events live updates: iPhone 17, iPhone Air, AirPods Pro 3, and new wearables just unveiled
Excited about Apple Watch 11's hypertension feature? It's coming to older models too
You can preorder Apple's new devices this week: iPhone 17, Watch 11, AirPods Pro 3 and more
Why I'm sticking with my iPhone 12 for another year - and I'm not alone
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
I tried every iPhone 17 model, and my buying advice is different this year
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use