3 police officers killed, 2 wounded in York County, Pennsylvania, shooting; suspect dead - CBS Philadelphia
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Philadelphia
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
CBS Philadelphia Shows
All News
Pennsylvania
New Jersey
Delaware
National
World
Health
Entertainment
Politics
Traffic & Transportation
Business
Recalls
Latest Weather
Radars
Closings & Delays
Become a Weather Watcher
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Eagles
Sixers
Phillies
Flyers
Blue Coats
College
High School
Odds
Focusing on the Future
Gallen of Questions
Alex's Lemonade Stand
Lights for the Fight
More Than Pink
Friday Football Frenzy
Hispanic Heritage Month
Joy of Sharing
Black Business Month
Mental Reset
RMHC Telethon
Summer Beat
Spreading the Love
The Heartbeat
Station Info
Contact Us
Share Photos & Video
Send Us a News Tip
Advertise With Us
Contests & Promotions
Download The App
About NEXTGEN TV
Photo Galleries
Mentioned On-Air
Jobs & Internships
Watch CBS News
Local News
3 police officers killed, 2 wounded in York County, Pennsylvania, shooting; suspect dead
By
Laura
Fay,
Bill
Seiders,
Josh
Sanders,
CBS News Philadelphia
Staff
Updated on:
September 18, 2025 / 11:00 AM EDT
/ CBS/AP
CBS News Live
CBS News Philadelphia
Live
Three police officers were killed and two were wounded in a shooting in York County, Pennsylvania, on Wednesday afternoon, Pennsylvania State Police Col. Christopher L. Paris said.The two injured officers are in critical but stable condition at the hospital, Paris said during a news conference.The gunman died after being shot by police, Paris said. The suspect was identified Thursday as 24-year-old Matthew James Ruth, a law enforcement official told the AP on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to discuss an ongoing investigation.Paris said police are investigating but do not believe there is any threat to the community. The scene was still active Wednesday evening, he said.More details could emerge Thursday if the courts release the original warrant that would explain why they were out at the scene, near the 1800 block of Haar Road in North Codorus Township, south of York. The York County District Attorney could also provide an update sometime on Thursday.
Officers shot in York County, PennsylvaniaThe incident happened just after 2 p.m. The officers were at the scene to serve a warrant and follow up on a domestic-related investigation that began Tuesday, Paris said. Officials have not said exactly what led to the shooting.
CBS News Philadelphia
"The grief will be unbearable, but we will bear it," Paris said during a press conference at the hospital where the injured officers are being treated, WellSpan York Hospital.The hospital confirmed it is treating two people who are "in serious condition" related to the incident and said "enhanced security protocols" were in place at the facility immediately following the incident.
Pennsylvania Gov. Josh Shapiro described Wednesday as an "absolutely tragic and devastating day" for the county and the commonwealth."I think it's important for you to know that these families who are dealing with — they're grieving right now and they're suffering right now — took the time to tell us … how proud they are of their loved ones who put on a uniform to keep us safe," Shapiro said. "It's an extraordinary thing that these law enforcement families do; they support the individual who puts on the uniform and runs toward danger."Shapiro also ordered the U.S. and Pennsylvania flags at state facilities and public buildings and grounds be lowered to half-staff until the three officers' interments.Pennsylvania Lt. Gov. Austin Davis on social media asked people to "please send prayers to the officers and those involved in the shooting in York County" and urged people to follow guidance from law enforcement. Pennsylvania Attorney General Dave Sunday said he was on his way to the area, as well.U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi said on social media that the FBI and ATF are on the scene to support local law enforcement. "Violence against law enforcement is a scourge on our society and never acceptable. Pray for the officers involved," Bondi said in the post.Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem confirmed her department is also monitoring the situation and "working with interagency partners."Pennsylvania State Police and the York County district attorney are leading the investigation. The FBI is also on the ground assisting local and state investigators. The investigation includes multiple locations within the county and continued overnight.
Schools in the Spring Grove Area School District sheltered in place because of the incident, but have since gotten the "all clear" from law enforcement, according to the district website. The move was made out of an abundance of caution, and no students or schools were involved, the message online says.The response to the officers' injuries unfolded on a rural road that winds through an agricultural area not far from the Maryland state line.Recent police shootings in Pennsylvania In his remarks at the hospital, Shapiro mentioned West York Patrolman Andrew W. Duarte, who died in a shooting at UPMC Memorial Hospital in York in February. The gunman also died, and another officer was injured, officials said.Two Pennsylvania state troopers were shot and a civilian was killed in Susquehanna County in Northeast Pennsylvania in August. The suspect in that shooting, which also unfolded in a rural area, was killed by police, officials said. Troopers Joseph Perechinsky and William Jenkins were each shot twice and airlifted to hospitals but expected to be OK.This is a developing story and will be updated.
The Associated
Press
contributed to this report.
More from CBS News
Baltimore County Police arrest man responsible for brutal Towson stabbing in July
19-year-old victim shot following football game near NW Baltimore high school
Hundreds attend vigil for student killed in Harford County crash involving school bus
Columbia mother sentenced to 20 years for attempted murder of two teens who robbed her son
Shooting
York County
Laura
Fay
Laura Fay is a digital content producer at CBS News Philadelphia. Laura previously worked as a reporter, editor and audience director at The 74, a nonprofit news organization covering education.
© 2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Baltimore County Police arrest man responsible for brutal Towson stabbing in July
19-year-old victim shot following football game near NW Baltimore high school
Hundreds attend vigil for student killed in Harford County crash involving school bus
Columbia mother sentenced to 20 years for attempted murder of two teens who robbed her son
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Philadelphia
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KYW-TV
Public File for WPSG Philly 57
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue