Bambu Lab's X1C color 3D printer is 33% off in combo deal — $1,099 nets you the printer, multicolor AMS 2 Pro attachment, and filament buffer | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
3D Printing
Bambu Lab's X1C color 3D printer is 33% off in combo deal — $1,099 nets you the printer, multicolor AMS 2 Pro attachment, and filament buffer
Deals
By
Stewart Bendle
published
22 September 2025
Save yourself a third of the price if you capitalize on this 3D printer deal
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Future)
We're big fans of 3D printers at Tom's Hardware, using them for various maker projects and hobbies. One of our top-reviewed 3D printers is currently featured in a combo deal along with several attachments that turn the printer into a multi-color machine for colorful prints. One of my favorite funky features of this printer is that the internal webcam can automatically generate a time-lapse of your build, as well as just let you keep a close eye on your prints whilst you're at work, or attending to something else.Good news for 3D printing deal hunters, Bambu Lab is offering a combo deal on their website, which combines the brilliant X1C Carbon 3D printer, along with the AMS 2 Pro attachment and filament buffer, for a complete setup at only $1,099. Purchasing this combo deal saves you a colossal $575 (34%), which you can instead invest in bundles of filaments for creating your favorite prints. The X1C is a suitable printer for both novices and professionals.
Check out the deal at Bambu Lab
The Bambu Lab X1C comes with everything you need to get your printer set up, as well as a few extra parts. Included in the box are tools to maintain the printer, a glue stick, and lubrication for the moving parts. This 3D printer offers print speeds up to 20,000 mm/s² acceleration for fast prints on its 256 x 256 x 256 mm print bed.Our 3D printing expert had the chance to review the Bambu Lab X1C and awarded this printer an Editor's Choice award. The X1C came semi-assembled and was easy to set up. The printer boasts a rigid steel frame, aluminum shell, and CoreXY motion system, LIDAR-assisted automatic calibration and inspection, and high-speed multicolor printing with AMS, with a fully enclosed build area.
Save 34% ($575)Bambu Lab
X1C Carbon 3D Printer: was $1,674 now $1,099 at bambulab.comTop-of-the-line performance with a high-speed coreXY movement with 20000 mm/s² acceleration for superfast prints. The X1C is compatible and comes with the AMS 2 Pro multi-color and multi-material printing attachment and filament buffer. Features include touchscreen controls and dual-auto bed levelling. See our review of the Bambu Lab X1 Carbon for more details.Read more▼View Deal
Most of the Bambu Lab printers listed on their website have been tested by our experts at Tom's Hardware, so if you're looking for something a little smaller, or for starting your printing journey, check our reviews of the A1 Mini or P1P, or take a look at our list of the best 3D printers, where we feature our top tested picks from various manufacturers.
If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals, Gaming Monitor Deals, Graphics Card Deals, or CPU Deals pages.
Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (0)
Stewart BendleSocial Links NavigationDeals WriterStewart Bendle is a deals and coupon writer at Tom's Hardware. A firm believer in “Bang for the buck” Stewart likes to research the best prices and coupon codes for hardware and build PCs that have a great price for performance ratio.
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.