How to show hidden files in Windows 7
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Team-Wide VMware Certification: Your Secret Weapon for Security
Jaguar Land Rover extends shutdown after cyberattack by another week
Apple backports zero-day patches to older iPhones and iPads
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeTutorials & Tech Support GuidesWindows 7 TutorialsHow to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
Lawrence Abrams
February 1, 2009
Read 3,815,351 times
Windows 7 hides certain files so that they are not able to be seen when you exploring the files on your computer. The files it hides are typically Windows 7 System files that if tampered with could cause problems with the proper operation of the computer. It is possible, though, for a user or piece of software to set make a file hidden by enabling the hidden attribute in a particular file or folder's properties. Due to this it can be beneficial at times to be able to see any hidden files that may be on your computer. This tutorial will explain how to show all hidden files in Windows 7.
To enable the viewing of hidden and protected system files in Windows 7 please follow these steps:
Close all programs so that you are at your desktop.
Click on the Start button. This is the small round button () in the lower left corner of your screen that has a Windows flag on it.
Click on the Control Panel menu option.
When the control panel opens you will see a screen similar to Figure 1 below.
Figure 1. Windows 7 Control Panel
Click on the Appearance and Personalization link.
You will now be in the Appearance and Personalization control panel as shown in Figure 2 below.
Figure 2. Windows 7 Appearance and Personalization screen
Now click on the Show hidden files and folders option as shown by the red arrow in Figure 2 above.
Under the Hidden files and folders section select the radio button labeled Show hidden files, folders, and drives.
Remove the checkmark from the checkbox labeled Hide extensions for known file types.
Remove the checkmark from the checkbox labeled Hide protected operating system files (Recommended).
Once this is done, your Folder Options screen should look similar to the following image.
Figure 3. Folder Options screen
Press the Apply button and then the OK button.
You will now be at your desktop and Windows 7 will be configured to show all hidden files.
If you have any questions about this tutorial please feel free to post them in our Windows 7 forums.
Users who read this also read:
How to see hidden files in Windows
By default Windows hides certain files from being seen with Windows Explorer or My Computer. This is done to protect these files, which are usually system files, from accidentally being modified or deleted by the user. Unfortunately viruses, spyware, and hijackers often hide there files in this way making it hard to find them and then delete them.
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
If you use a computer, read the newspaper, or watch the news, you will know about computer viruses or other malware. These are those malicious programs that once they infect your machine will start causing havoc on your computer. What many people do not know is that there are many different types of infections that are categorized in the general category of Malware.
How to see hidden files in Windows 8
Windows 8 hides certain files so that you are not able to view them while exploring the files and folders on your computer. Windows has two types of files that Windows will classify as hidden and hide from the user. The first type are actually hidden files, which are ones that are given the +H attribute or specified as Hidden in a file or folder's properties. The second type of file are System ...
How to create a new user account
in Windows 7 and Windows Vista
Windows 7 allows you to have multiple users sharing the same computer under their own individual accounts. This allows each individual user to have their own location on the computer where they can store their personal documents, pictures, videos, saved games, and other personal data. This also allows the owner of the computer to assign certain accounts the ability to perform administrative tasks
...
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
Windows Safe Mode is a way of booting up your Windows operating system in order to run administrative and diagnostic tasks on your installation. When you boot into Safe Mode the operating system only loads the bare minimum of software that is required for the operating system to work. This mode of operating is designed to let you troubleshoot and run diagnostics on your computer. Windows Safe Mode ...
Comments:
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
search tutorials
Tutorials Navigation
Tutorials Home
New Tutorials
Popular Tutorials
RSS Feed
Latest tutorials
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
Alec Abrams
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
Lawrence Abrams
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
Lawrence Abrams
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
Lawrence Abrams
How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator
Lawrence Abrams
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now