Check that you're ready for invasive DRM with new feature built right into Steam — Secure Boot and TPM status now listed right in the app | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
GPUs
Best Graphics Cards for Gaming in 2025
PC Gaming
'Call of Duty: Black Ops 7' will require TPM 2.0, Windows Secure Boot
Video Games
Battlefield 6's Javelin anti-cheat Secure Boot requirement could kill its Steam Deck support
PC Gaming
Steam's new Performance Overlay is more accurate than Task Manager, says Valve
Cyber Security
Microsoft's Secure Boot UEFI bootloader signing key expires in September, posing problems for Linux users
PC Gaming
Steam adds new performance overlay showing real FPS side-by-side DLSS generated Frames
PC Gaming
Epic Games adds Easy Anti-Cheat for ARM devices — Feature unlocks support for Windows, Linux, and Switch 2
Cyber Security
Hacker plants three strains of malware in a Steam Early Access game called Chemia — security company found crypto-jacking infostealers and a backdoor to install yet more malware in the future
PC Gaming
Valve to drop Steam support for 32-bit Windows versions from next year
Windows
Windows 7 runs natively on the Steam Deck
CPUs
Steam gaming finally comes to RISC-V
Windows
Microsoft Gaming Copilot hits Windows in public beta
Windows
Windows 11 is getting a built-in internet speed test feature that will take you to Bing
CPUs
AMD CPUs surpass the 40% threshold in latest Steam hardware survey
Video Games
PC Gaming
Check that you're ready for invasive DRM with new feature built right into Steam — Secure Boot and TPM status now listed right in the app
News
By
Hassam Nasir
published
24 September 2025
A secure boot a day keeps a virus away.
Comments (6)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Valve)
Ever since the release of Windows 11, if you're a PC gamer, you've definitely heard the term "Secure Boot." It's required to play a myriad of different games these days — mainly competitive shooters — and serves as one part of the two-punch security knockout consisting of TPM and Secure Boot. These features help keep your system protected from bad actors, and now Valve has just made it super convenient to check whether you're ahead of the curve. In the latest Steam beta, you can easily see your Secure Boot status in the settings.If you open Steam and go to "Help" in the menu bar and click on "System Information," you'll be bombarded with a bunch of stats about your PC. Just scroll down till you see the "Operating System" heading, and you should see a list item for Secure Boot, telling you if it's enabled. This makes it easier for gamers who get inundated with information to ensure they're not excluded. While you're there, you'll see your TPM status as well, which is the other big security feature of Windows 11 and a requirement for (official) compatibility with the OS.
(Image credit: Valve via PC Gamer)TPM stands for Trusted Platform Module, and it's a little hardware block that's cordoned off from the rest of the system because it houses ultra-sensitive cryptographic keys. It works hand-in-hand with Secure Boot to check if anything has changed since the last known good boot. It does that by recording hashes at each stage of every boot run to tally against, which is just one secret, along with many others (like BitLocker encryption keys) that are stored away in this chip. TPM is a requirement in most modern online games, just like Secure Boot.
You may like
'Call of Duty: Black Ops 7' will require TPM 2.0, Windows Secure Boot
Battlefield 6's Javelin anti-cheat Secure Boot requirement could kill its Steam Deck support
Steam's new Performance Overlay is more accurate than Task Manager, says Valve
Secure Boot works to ensure that only trusted, signed software runs when your PC starts, in an effort to sift out any shady programs. It's a kernel-level security feature, so it enjoys the highest level of privilege on your system — something that its critics often point toward as a vulnerability. Secure Boot, in essence, is a novel concept and is designed to do what it says: make your boot secure, but sometimes the amount of access it has can raise questions.
(Image credit: Tom Warren)That's because most anti-cheat software is reliant on Secure Boot as it's essentially responsible for creating a safe space for the anti-cheat right as your system is starting, from where on out the anti-cheat can catch any exploits or malicious code itself. This can get really territorial, as recently seen with EA's Javelin in Battlefield 6. Without Secure Boot (and often TPM), some games won't even launch, so it's important to enable it if you see it turned off in Steam. To do so, you need to head over to your BIOS; check your motherboard manufacturer's guides for more info.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Steam
See all comments (6)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
Read more
'Call of Duty: Black Ops 7' will require TPM 2.0, Windows Secure Boot
Battlefield 6's Javelin anti-cheat Secure Boot requirement could kill its Steam Deck support
Steam's new Performance Overlay is more accurate than Task Manager, says Valve
Microsoft's Secure Boot UEFI bootloader signing key expires in September, posing problems for Linux users
Steam adds new performance overlay showing real FPS side-by-side DLSS generated Frames
Epic Games adds Easy Anti-Cheat for ARM devices — Feature unlocks support for Windows, Linux, and Switch 2
Latest in PC Gaming
Manic Steam game collector first to surpass 40,000 game titles in library
GPU sales skyrocketed 27% last quarter
Valve to drop Steam support for 32-bit Windows versions from next year
DOOM left running on ASUS MyPal PDA for 2.5 years finally crashes
Gearbox CEO channels inner Claptrap, offers himself up as personal tech support over rampant Borderlands 4 PC performance issues
Official Borderlands 4 GPU setting recommendations peg 4K performance with the RTX 5090 at 60 FPS, with DLSS and frame generation enabled
Latest in News
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
Alibaba announces partnership with Nvidia despite Beijing’s bans
OpenAI may lease Nvidia GPUs instead of buying them
AMD keeps AM4 platform on life support with 2020-era Zen 3 CPU
Solidigm touts industry's first liquid-cooled enterprise SSD
Microsoft develops breakthrough chip cooling method
6 Comments
Comment from the forums
edzieba
The Secure Boot status is also visible within Windows (Windows Security > Device Security) without needing to launch and log into a shop application to tell you.
Reply
Notton
And if you don't like secure boot?
Install steamOS (or whatever flavor of linux), I guess.
Reply
palladin9479
Secure Boot does not protect you from malicious software. It's just a way to ensure integrity of the boot loader. The hash of the bootloader is kept in the TPM module and when the BIOS goes to boot, it'll check that the hash's match before handing off the boot process. In theory this prevents someone from using a bootable USB/DVD device and overwriting or modifying the bootloader. Of course if someone has physical access to do this, they also have access to alter the hash value stored in the TPM module. Basically this only protects against rootkits, which used to be super common but have since died off in favor of privilege escalation from phishing someone.
MS does not have some sort of ultra-violet secret backdoor access to these chips, the exact same API hooks they use to upload the hash values during installation or update are the same hooks I can use when I modify the boot loader. This applies to the Full Disk Encryption that TPM was really made for, if I have access to the module then I have access to the encryption keys kept inside the module. The only way to keep me out of the module would be to use a strong passphrase that would be required to unlock the module prior to boot. So how many people here have TPM + Secure Boot enabled along with a boot passphrase? Yeah thought so, that means it's just security theatre.
The real reason for game publishers wanting to use the TPM is that they can use it like a thumbprint for DRM.
And just to hammer home how much TPM is just security theatre, I present the PCIe DMA card.
https://www.amazon.com/Model-35t-DMA-Card-Compatible/dp/B0DJWGZ1NJ
Anything on the PCIe bus can access memory directly via DMA, this is how you load stuff into and out of your GPU's VRAM and how we can use CUDA to crunch data. This device allows a second PC to directly scan through and modify any value in memory without any intervention from the OS or kernel. It can be used to extract any encryptions keys that were loaded during boot, modify any code or data stored in memory, and pretty much do anything on the computer. The card costs, drum roll, $139 USD.
Reply
edzieba
palladin9479 said:Basically this only protects against rootkits, which used to be super common but have since died off in favor of privilege escalation from phishing someone.And the fall in rootkit and bootkit-based attacks as Secure Boot was adopted is just a coincidence?
Like with OS security patches, just because attackers have moved on from targeting those exploits because they were patched, that is not a good reason to remove the patches.
Also, TPM != Secure Boot, the two are entirely different things and can both be implemented independently. Vulnerability to local hardware attacks (let alone memory snooping) is also irrelevant for Secure Boot, as it was never designed to defend against those attacks in the first place.
Reply
hotaru251
creating a safe space for the anti-cheat right as your system is starting, from where on out the anti-cheat can catch any exploits or malicious code itself.
let me edit this bit:
"can ATTEMPT to catch any exploits"
If this worked like the statement claims there would be no cheating (and we all know that isnt the case)
Reply
Joomsy
I'm just gonna leave this here. Not arguing against the use of Secure Boot outright, but making anti-cheats reliant on it is going to be ineffective when things like this are possible. Commercial cheat makers salivate over this kind of stuff, and they already employ tactics used by malware controllers to gain kernel access. They use vulnerable drivers that they can bundle with their cheat. I can bet one of them will eventually incorporate a bypass for Secure Boot.
https://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities-threats/hybridpetya-ransomware-bypasses-secure-boot
Reply
View All 6 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.