IPO Filing Process & Steps - Virtual IPO | Nasdaq
Skip to main content
Nasdaq+
Weekly Macro+
Scorecard
Market Activity
U.S. Market Activity
->
Stocks
Options
ETFs
Mutual Funds
Indexes
Cryptocurrency
Currencies
Fixed Income
Trading & Market Services
North American Markets
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Market Data
European Markets
->
Shares
Indexes
Fixed Income
Options & Futures
ETPs
Warrants & Certificates
Funds
News
European Commodities
Market Regulation
->
U.S. Regulation
European Regulation
U.S. Market Quick Links
After-Hours Quotes
Pre-Market Quotes
Nasdaq-100
Symbol Screener
Glossary
Symbol Change History
IPO Performance
Ownership Search
Dividend History
U.S. Market Events
Economic Calendar
Earnings
IPO Calendar
Dividend Calendar
SPO Calendar
Holiday Schedule
U.S. Markets Analyst Activity
Daily Earnings Surprise
Forecast Changes
Nasdaq U.S.
Data
Statistical Milestones
Daily Market Statistics
Most Active
Explore All U.S. Market Activity
->
Insights
Insights + News
Nasdaq Newsroom
Nasdaq Newsletters
FinTech News
Driving Excellence
Complexity Report
Global Financial Crime Report
ETF Retail Investor Survey
Nasdaq Originals
->
Frontiers of the Future
The Winning Formula
Question Today
TradeTalks
Journey Across the Financial System
Meet Me @ MarketSite
Perspectives
Market Makers with Phil Mackintosh
Options with Kevin Davitt
Regulatory Roundup with Tony Sio
ESG Trendsetters
Global Indexes: Research Insights
Nasdaq ETF Issuer Hub
TradeTalks Newsletter
Just for Funds
Education
C02 Removals
Derivatives Academy
FinTech Education & Learning Services
Nasdaq Center for Board Excellence
Nasdaq ETF Education
Nasdaq IPO Academy
Explore Our Newsroom
->
Solutions
Access Global Markets
->
Public Markets (Listings)
North American Markets
European Markets
Private Markets
Nasdaq Fund Secondaries
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq's IPO Process
ETF Listings
Nasdaq-100 Index Options
Derivatives Academy
Drive Growth with Insights
Investment Intelligence
Market & Alternative Datasets
Nasdaq Index Solutions
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Data Link
Nasdaq-100 Index
Nasdaq Dorsey Wright
Nasdaq eVestment™
Nasdaq Solovis
Advance with Technology
Financial Technology
Financial Crime Management Technology
Global Connectivity Services
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq AxiomSL
Nasdaq Calypso
Nasdaq Eqlipse
Nasdaq Trade Surveillance
Accelerate Your Strategy
Governance Solutions
Sustainability Solutions
Investor Relations Intelligence
Featured Solutions
Nasdaq Boardvantage®
Board Evaluations
Nasdaq IR Insight®
Nasdaq Metrio
Explore All Solutions
->
About
Our People
->
Board of Directors
->
Careers
->
Contact
->
Quick Links
Question Today
Nasdaq MarketSite
Investor Relations
European Markets
Nasdaq Nordic Foundation
Nasdaq Thought Leadership
Nasdaq Initiatives
Purpose
Market Structure Policy Advocacy
Public Policy Advocacy
Nasdaq Sustainability
Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center
Nasdaq Ventures
Nasdaq and the Cloud
Explore All About
->
Log in
Sign In
Data is currently not available
Search Nasdaq.com
Clear
Search
We couldn’t find any results matching your search.
Please try using other words for your search or explore other sections of the website for relevant information.
We’re sorry, we are currently experiencing some issues, please try again later.
Our team is working diligently to resolve the issue. Thank you for your patience and understanding.
Show more results ->
Close modal
Pardon our appearance
We are actively working to enhance your experience by translating more content. However, please be aware that the page you are about to visit has not yet been translated.
We appreciate your undertanding and patience as we continue to imporove our services.
Continue
Nasdaq Listings
Overview
Listing Requirements
Transfer Your Listing
Partner with Nasdaq
Live From Marketsite
Listing Center
More
Overview
Listing Requirements
Transfer Your Listing
Partner with Nasdaq
Live From Marketsite
Listing Center
Nasdaq IPO Execution
Go public with confidence
Transparency and efficiency through proprietary technology.
Get in Touch
Understanding the IPO Process
For over 50 years, Nasdaq has been a leader in the exchange space through our technology innovations. We built our IPO process in partnership with the investment banking community, ensuring that they have the control and information they need to successfully open your IPO.
Subscribe to Nasdaq+ for full access
Exclusive content, detailed data sets, and best-in-class trade insights to rewrite your portfolio for tomorrow.
Try it Now
Benefits of Listing with Nasdaq
Proprietary Technology
Nasdaq’s best-in-class technology, the Bookviewer, provides a real-time view of order data during the book building process for the first trade launch.
Proprietary Technology
Nasdaq’s best-in-class technology, the Bookviewer, provides a real-time view of order data during the book building process for the first trade launch.
Transparency
The stabilization agent has access to the full order book on their desktop to help them determine the optimal time to open the stock and provide the necessary liquidity to match buyers and sellers.
Transparency
The stabilization agent has access to the full order book on their desktop to help them determine the optimal time to open the stock and provide the necessary liquidity to match buyers and sellers.
Efficiency
The Nasdaq IPO Execution Officer communicates with the stabilization agent, the full syndicate, and the rest of the "street" to keep them informed throughout the book building process prior to the first trade.
Efficiency
The Nasdaq IPO Execution Officer communicates with the stabilization agent, the full syndicate, and the rest of the "street" to keep them informed throughout the book building process prior to the first trade.
Liquidity
Who are Nasdaq Market Makers?
When companies list on Nasdaq, there are registered Market Makers who are actively trading and providing liquidity to buyers and sellers to reflect the current market conditions.
We believe in transparency and efficiency. To be truly efficient, we have modernized the process of leveraging technology and taking the middle-man out of the equation.
Jay Heller, VP, Head of Capital Markets, Nasdaq
40+
Nasdaq Market Makers
on average who actively trade and provide liquidity to buyers and sellers to reflect the current market conditions.
Pricing & Execution
Step 1
IPO Offering Price
Your bankers will match up demand and interest to set the offering price.
Step 2
Display-Only Period
Nasdaq accepts IPO securities orders for a minimum of 10 minutes. Orders can be cancelled during this time.
Step 3
Pre-Launch
Stabilization Agent and execution team determine when to launch trading.
Step 4
Gate Closes
Order modification can no longer be entered into system.
Step 5
IPO Opens
Nasdaq IPO Execution Officer opens the security.
Step 6
Continuous Trading
Continuous trading occurs throughout rest of session.
Recent IPOs with Nasdaq
Our Network of Industry Leaders
In 2024, we proudly welcomed leading IPOs including Lineage, Kaspi.kz, Waystar, BrightSpring Health Services, and Onestream. You're in great company at Nasdaq.
Learn More
81%
2024 Nasdaq-eligible IPO Win Rate
123 operating companies and 48 SPACs listed on Nasdaq in 2024, representing an 81% win rate of Nasdaq-eligible IPOs in the U.S. market, and extending Nasdaq’s leadership to 44 consecutive quarters.
Support
Contact Us
Head of Capital Markets
Jay Heller, VP
Jay.Heller@nasdaq.com
+1 212-401-8932
Reserve Your Ticker
symbol.reservation@nasdaq.com
Qualify to List on Nasdaq
listingapplications@nasdaq.com
+1 301-978-8008
Nasdaq Listing Center
Visit the Listing Center
Get started with Nasdaq
Learn more about an IPO today.
Resources
FAQs
Why take your company public?
Companies go public to raise capital and provide liquidity. The capital can be deployed for potential growth and expansion opportunities. Listing their shares on the exchange provides liquidity to early shareholders and investors.
What is the difference between an IPO and a direct listing?
The main difference between a direct listing and an IPO is that a company does not raise capital with a direct listing. When a company decides to go public, there are typically existing shareholders including founders, employees, and various early stage investors who seek liquidity. Both an IPO and a direct listing enable these investors to have the opportunity to sell their shares. In an IPO, there is a lock-up period—typically 180 days—in which shareholders are restricted from selling outside of the initial public offering. In a direct listing, there are no lock-up restrictions.
What is a virtual IPO?
At Nasdaq our “Modern Day IPO” process leverages data and technology to open IPOs electronically and remotely. Even when physical trading floors were closed during the pandemic, Nasdaq used its same technology to launch IPO first trades in coordination with the lead underwriter to provide best-in-class IPO execution.
What is the Nasdaq Bookviewer?
The Bookviewer is Nasdaq’s state-of-the-art technology platform that allows a stabilization agent 100% of the aggregated order book. All the information provided by the Bookviewer helps to enable the lead bank to efficiently open an IPO on the Nasdaq Stock Market.
How is Nasdaq’s Bookviewer technology superior in launching an IPO?
At Nasdaq, we believe in transparency and a marketplace where investors can compete for the best price. We provide this information through our Bookviewer technology, an innovative web-based solution designed to help banks mitigate volatility and ensure the security opens at the right price.
Resources
Explore More Information About Listing with Nasdaq
IPO Center
Explore
Direct Listings
Explore
SPAC
Explore
List with Nasdaq
Explore
Why Nasdaq
Explore
Investor Relations
Contact
Careers
Advertise
Mobile Apps
Nasdaq MarketSIte
Trust Center
Newsletters
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Legal
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
© 2025, Nasdaq, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts.
Cookie Policy
Cookies Settings
Accept All Cookies