The Study of Bugs: A Creepy-Crawly Crash Course in Entomology | PBS
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
The Study of Bugs: A Creepy-Crawly Crash Course in Entomology
Jump TO
What Is Entomology?
Jump to
What Is Entomology?
How Does Entomology Work?
Itty Bitty City Dwellers: Human and Insect Behavior
Lights, Camera, Action: How Researchers Attract Insects
Biodiversity in Your Backyard: Citizens in the Natural Sciences
There’s No “I” in “Team” (Unless It’s Insects): Groups and Societies
What Does Entomology Teach Us?
Case Study: What Would Happen if Insects Disappeared?
Case Study: How Do Insects Adapt to Their Environments?
Learn More About Your Favorite Insect Species
Share
The Study of Bugs: A Creepy-Crawly Crash Course in Entomology
Published on May 29, 2025
by
Ashlee Sierra
Share
When you want to learn about ecology, biodiversity, climate change or even humanity, you might start by popping open your favorite internet search engine. But thanks to entomology, some of the best teachers might be crawling right outside your door.Entomology, or the scientific study of bugs, teaches a lot about the ecosystem we all share. By pulling out a magnifying glass and inspecting your favorite insect species, you could brush up on everything from food chains to environmental adaptations. Spiders, honey bees, cockroaches, fruit flies — every creepy-crawly has something to teach us.But you can’t study every bug on your own. Luckily, “Bugs That Rule the World” on PBS is here to give you an up-close look at the insect world, empowering you to become a researcher in your own backyard. Find out how it all works in this crash course in entomology!
What Is Entomology?If you’ve ever been aggravated by ants or scared by spiders, you might wonder why bugs are here in the first place. Are insects really that important?Entomology answers this question by showing us how bugs interact with plants, animals, humans and each other. This field isn’t just about studying unique insect behavior; the facts we learn from entomology can inform all kinds of studies, including chemistry, health, agriculture and even criminology and forensics. One of the main goals of entomology is improving life for humans. Sometimes this means learning how insects spread disease or harm crops, then finding solutions to minimize the damage — for example, using insect biology to develop pest control methods that don’t affect plants. In other cases, entomologists focus on making life better for beneficial insects like pollinators, which indirectly benefits ecosystems and humans, too.Of course, things aren’t always easy when you’re studying creepy-crawly organisms. According to research published by the Royal Entomological Society, some of the top challenges in entomology include:Research ideas without immediate practical application.Limited funding and training.Difficulty sharing, accessing and utilizing data.Need for increased engagement with government policy-makers.The good news is that entomology is always advancing. As people learn more about insects and get involved with new technologies that can instantly identify bugs (and create entomological data in the process), public perception improves — and that means more opportunities for future studies, funding and career pathways. For example, today’s entomologists are focused on showing people how beneficial insects improve life for all of us, proving the importance of methods like habitat conservation, better invasive species management and even building new communities with bugs in mind.
Thank you for signing up for our newsletter!
What to watch, exclusive previews, and updates from PBS coming soon to your inbox. Want to subscribe to see all of PBS’ email offerings in one place? Check out our newsletter page.
The best of PBS, straight to your inbox.
Be the first to know about what to watch, exclusive previews, and updates from PBS.
Leave this field blank
Submit
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
How Does Entomology Work?There’s no one way to learn about bugs. When entomologists study insects, they can choose from countless research methods — but how do those methods work? Grab your magnifying glass and let’s take a look:
Itty Bitty City Dwellers: Human and Insect BehaviorPart of entomology is learning about the human impact on insects. As Urban Ecologist Sylvana Ross points out in “Bugs That Rule the World,” these creatures have been around for hundreds of millions of years — so our massive cities are comparatively new. To understand how urban environments and human activities influence insects, entomologists look at how we coexist with our creepy-crawly neighbors. One example is “urban heat islands,” which occur when heat gets trapped in a city’s center, making temperatures much warmer than in surrounding natural areas. Researchers have found that bugs adapt to this change with new behaviors, impacting how they find food, locate mates, raise young and more. In “Bugs That Rule the World,” Ross studies an ant species called Tapinoma sessile. Also known as sugar ants, these bugs have a sweet tooth that makes them a great fit for coexisting with humans. But how do our behaviors, like creating cities and urban heat islands, change the game? Join Ross as she finds out:
Lights, Camera, Action: How Researchers Attract InsectsAs you’ll learn in “Bugs That Rule the World,” there are over 2,400 species of praying mantises, and more than a tenth live in Brazil. Catching them all would require a pretty big net!Fortunately, mantis expert Gavin Svenson has a better idea. You’ll get to see him travel to the Brazilian rainforest to set up a giant, multi-story lamp that uses ultraviolet light specifically tuned to attract insects. As it towers over the canopy of the Amazon, it draws in some of the most ancient mantis species in the world. Lights at each level allow Svenson to create a “layer cake” of biodiversity, with different bugs coming in to explore the lights — which are a rarity in this part of the rainforest.Join Svenson as he comes face-to-face with some incredible insects:
Biodiversity in Your Backyard: Citizens in the Natural SciencesBefore researcher Akito Kawahara knew he had a future in entomology, he collected butterflies with his father. Today, he shows that collection to his own children — and all of us — in “Bugs That Rule the World.” Apart from fond memories, there’s also a lot of scientific value to be found here.As it turns out, even moments of backyard fun can help entomologists explore the insect world, turning everyday people into citizen scientists. For example, many of the butterfly species Kawahara grew up with aren’t so common anymore — so his collection is an important resource as he studies the declining insect population in Japan and around the world.Another example of citizen science occurred in Denmark in 2017, when researchers at the University of Copenhagen needed to assess the whole country’s insect biodiversity. To make it happen, they got 150 volunteers to drive around with nets mounted on cars, traveling preprogrammed routes and documenting the bugs they found.
There’s No “I” in “Team” (Unless It’s Insects): Groups and SocietiesAlthough you can learn about bugs just by going outside, it’s helpful to have some experts at your back. That’s why entomologists and other researchers have formed groups to spread awareness, support conservation efforts, perform crucial studies and more.If you want to learn more, the experts behind “Bugs That Rule the World” recommend starting with groups like these:The Xerces Society: This science-based nonprofit organization protects invertebrates and their habitats, providing educational resources and encouraging people to get involved — for example, by signing the Pollinator Protection Pledge.Monarch Watch: Whether you want to start an insect-friendly garden, raise monarchs at home or in the classroom, take part in tagging programs or just learn about these beautiful butterflies, Monarch Watch has everything you need to get started.Pollinator Partnership: This organization doesn’t just protect insect pollinators like bees, butterflies and beetles; they’re also friends to birds, bats and humans like you who want to help out!You can also brush up on bug knowledge with the NATURE library of insect resources.
Support your local PBS station in our mission to inspire, enrich, and educate.
Donate Now
What Does Entomology Teach Us?Sometimes, entomologists study insects to answer specific questions. Here are just a few examples:Climate change: To learn how different animals adapt to climate change, researchers keep track of which insects change their habits to survive while others die off.Identification: There are millions of bug species out there, and we can learn something from all of them — but as insect populations dwindle, we run a risk of losing some creatures before we even know they existed.Impacts: Insects play critical roles in their ecosystems, doing everything from scavenging, decomposing and recycling to pollinating crops and acting as bioindicator species that warn us of environmental trouble.Food: Bugs have a complicated relationship with our food supply, and entomologists are still learning how to control insect pests without impacting plants, crucial pollinators or other animals.
Case Study: What Would Happen if Insects Disappeared?As insect declines become a reality worldwide, entomologists are racing to understand the potential impacts of losing our creepy-crawly neighbors. This goes far beyond impacting our food supply.For example, imagine that every moth species went extinct. You might not think of these fluttery fellows as pollinators, but it turns out they do crucial work for plants that bloom at night — and without them, we could lose beautiful and important flora.The same is true for bees. Some species evolved alongside plants, which means certain flowers can only be pollinated by specific bugs. If we lose those bugs, we lose the flowers, too.But this kind of loss also happens the other way around. Climate change has caused some flowers to bloom earlier, meaning they’re already gone by the time their pollinator partners, like bumblebees, come out; this, in turn, leaves behind very hungry bugs. Similarly, some dung beetles have evolved so they can only eat rhino droppings — so they’ll disappear if the rhinos do.
Case Study: How Do Insects Adapt to Their Environments?Speaking of evolution, some insect adaptations are so incredible that you have to study them to believe them.Take the stick bug. These creepy-crawlies disguise themselves to hide from predators — but they do it so well that they can’t find each other! To locate mates without drawing attention to themselves, they use specialized pheromones that act like insect dating apps.Another example is moths battling bats. A moth doesn’t have many natural defenses, but some have evolved to hear and produce ultrasound. That means they can reply to bats’ echolocation with messages saying “I’m toxic!” or even jam the sonar with loud sounds.
Other insects are more on the offensive. The praying mantis has six legs, but unlike other bugs, it uses two of those legs to attack. Similarly, dragonflies have developed nearly 360-degree vision, giving them up to 95% hunting accuracy.
Learn More About Your Favorite Insect SpeciesEntomology, or the study of bugs, teaches us about insects and their impacts on the natural world. We’re using our creepy-crawly neighbors to explore everything from agriculture and climate change to criminology and city design. Anyone can become an amateur entomologist. Just head outside and explore the world around you — and to learn more along the way, watch “Bugs That Rule the World” on PBS!
About the Author
Ashlee Sierra is an Associate Editorial Manager at Brafton. Her work includes creative nonfiction, children's fiction, video game copy, and more. When she's not writing, you can find her daydreaming about backyard chickens and listening to sea shanties.
Read More About
Ashlee
Read All Articles By
Ashlee
Science, Nature & Our World
,
PBS Programming
Share
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
About PBS
Donate
PBS Foundation
TV Schedule
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sponsorship
Contact Us
© 2025 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.