amazon web services - Serverless Container Framework with TypeScript - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Serverless Container Framework with TypeScript
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
22 times
Part of AWS Collective
-2
EDIT:
I see that I have a downvote and to close, which I am fine but can there be an explanation on why? As I'm not totally understand this, if I am asking the wrong question at the wrong place or there are more info I should provide, please let me know.
Thank you so much.
Trying something new with Serverless Container Framework which I found kind of the only tutorial on https://www.serverless.com/blog/introducing-serverless-container-framework which I followed it's sample in the repo of https://github.com/serverless/containers/tree/main/example-express
When I first tried it, it didn't work that I had to change type from awsLambda to awsFargateEcs
So my serverless.containers.yml actually look like this
name: example-express
deployment:
type: [email protected]
containers:
service:
src: ./service
routing:
pathPattern: /*
pathHealthCheck: /health
environment:
HELLO: world-yo
compute:
type: awsFargateEcs # or awsLabmda
This worked fine with the default expressjs in the repo, that the deployment was a success that I am able to view the demo with the cloudfront url.
The issue I am having now is, I tried changing the code to TS which still works fine when in development mode BUT when I try to make a deploy.
I happen to get some errors such as Service deployed over 15 minutes or Image cannot be found and I forgot what other random ones.
I tried googling and also tried chat gpt, but pretty much no luck on this.
I tried a few times to clean out all the images, cloudfront, vpc, load balancer, target groups, roles and so on on aws, when I do this mostly the deployment would exit due to the 15 minutes message.
Wonder if someone can give me some insight on how this can be done or if there's actually something I'm missing.
Thank you so much in advance for any suggestions and advices.
amazon-web-servicescontainersserverlessserverless-frameworkaws-serverless
Share
Improve this question
Follow
edited 1 hour ago
DoraDora
asked 3 hours ago
DoraDora
7,0161515 gold badges5858 silver badges117117 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
1
Serverless: How to remove/deploy deployment without .serverless directory for team collaboration
7
Serverless deprecation warning on .env files
0
Serverless Framework Error: Single API Gateway Project - RootResourceId attribute of API Gateway RestAPI <id> doesn't exist
Related questions
1
Serverless: How to remove/deploy deployment without .serverless directory for team collaboration
7
Serverless deprecation warning on .env files
0
Serverless Framework Error: Single API Gateway Project - RootResourceId attribute of API Gateway RestAPI <id> doesn't exist
3
Moving existing lambda edge to Serverless Framework
0
Dependencies Missing while deploying an AWS Lambda using Serverless Framework
2
Logs from Serverless framework is not showing on AWS CloudWatch
Load 3 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
amazon-web-servicescontainersserverlessserverless-frameworkaws-serverless
See similar questions with these tags.
AWS
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Featured on Meta
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Is this alternating current Peltier device possible?
Why is my dryer tripping its breaker after a period of use?
Understanding the delay x bandwidth product for computer networks
What is a Pasted Word™?
How to tell author that post hoc data manipulation is not okay
How to fix excessive dust / lint problem inside the house
Energy Conservation for Quantum Systems
How do I remove a gap in date x axis?
Clearly allowed
Color GeoPath according to current distance traveled
Memory mapped file interface for linux
Is a postdoc essential to attaining a tenure track position in computer science in the USA?
Siblings buying grandparents' home as first time buyers. Please help me identify our blind spots
gdal_fillnodata has no compression flag
Statistics for Theoreticians
Beyond first place?
Road trip movie about the young son of a millionaire who is sent on vacation to Spain
9/16/25 operations challenge
My pure mathematics PhD dissertation will likely be very short. I have until the last day of January 2026 to remedy this. What can I do?
What is a "mob" character in the context of Isekai works?
Did Trump say "smart people don't like me"?
Get function parameter for functions fitting "between" two other functions
Find the first relabeling
In what sense is this algorithm better than Dijkstra?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093