Moved From California to Wisconsin: Why We Prefer Life in the Midwest - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Real Estate
We moved from Los Angeles to Milwaukee. Our friends were surprised, but our only regret is that we didn't do it sooner.
Essay by
Daria Solovieva
I love how easy it is for us to visit lakes, beaches, and parks in Wisconsin.
Daria Solovieva
2025-09-17T16:02:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
We moved to Milwaukee to be closer to our aging parents and avoid the wildfires in California.
People were surprised by our decision, but the Midwest turned out to be the perfect place for us.
We love the easy access to nature, the sense of community, and the affordable produce.
When I announced that my family was moving to Wisconsin, many friends and colleagues were surprised.
I'm a journalist, and in my industry, choosing life outside certain major cities is still sometimes seen as an odd move, even with the prevalence of remote work.Moving to the Midwest from Los Angeles meant I might be farther away from networking and job opportunities. Plus, I'd visited Wisconsin only a few times.
There were a few reasons this felt like the right decision, though. My husband's parents lived in Milwaukee, and mine were in Ohio and Pennsylvania. We'd already been talking about living closer to family, and then in January, a series of devastating wildfires spread through Los Angeles.Thankfully, our house wasn't directly affected, but we were close enough to two major wildfires that we decided to evacuate voluntarily. Our concerns about air quality sped up our timeline significantly.We figured that in Milwaukee, we could have a better quality of life and, hopefully, save some money — but we didn't expect the Midwest to transform our lives in so many other ways.
The lakes and parks are so much more accessible to us than the ones in LA
The beaches here remind me of the ones in Southern Russia.
Daria Solovieva
Milwaukee offered something I didn't know I was missing — an easy, deep connection to nature and proximity to beaches that remind me of Southern Russia, where I grew up.Of course, California has lots of beautiful nature, too — but getting to it was another story. Compared with Los Angeles, where traveling anywhere outside the city took at least an hour, Milwaukee immediately offered us proximity to nature with much less traffic.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Here, a lakeside hike, a cherry-tree orchard, or just a quiet bench with a stunning view of Lake Michigan is never too far. We even have a backyard here, which is a game changer for our toddler and dog.
Meanwhile, if we're craving bigger-city vibes, Chicago and other larger metropolitan areas are still just a train ride away.We can buy great produce at an affordable cost
I love checking out the markets around Milwaukee, like Witte's Vegetable Farm.
Daria Solovieva
I'm a sustainability journalist and cooking enthusiast, so it should be no surprise that quality, budget-friendly produce is high at the top of my list of favorite things about the Midwest.Quality produce was available in Los Angeles, but I would often find myself spending over $100 on a grocery haul. Here, the local farmers markets offer a variety of produce for an actual bargain.
I like being close to several small towns that each have their own weekly markets with diverse produce and competitive pricing.Yes, grocery prices have climbed everywhere this year, but we have found ourselves spending less than we did in Los Angeles.We've been able to truly find our people hereMidwesterners are known for being friendly, and I've learned that the stereotype is not an exaggeration.
My husband and I have both noticed that interactions with strangers here feel so much more positive and less rushed than they did in cities like Los Angeles.We routinely find ourselves leaving a conversation with someone new saying, "Can you believe how nice they were?" For a multitude of reasons, including this one, I've found it surprisingly easy to build community here.Not only is everyone really kind, but there are lots of other parents living in our neighborhood. It also doesn't hurt that we have family in the Milwaukee area and other parts of the Midwest.
Life here still isn't perfect, but it's a lot closer to our ideal
Visiting the Great Lakes has become one of our family's favorite activities.
Daria Solovieva
No move is easy, especially when a toddler and three pets are involved. We're fortunate to have had family in the area who helped us settle into our new home.We also haven't entirely escaped our air-quality worries here — smoke from Canadian wildfires made its way to our neighborhood this summer.There are so many parts of Midwestern life that we love, though. Our cost of living is lower, and now that we have more kitchen and pantry space, I've started baking more. I'm even considering pickling. (Who am I?)
When my aunt came over to visit us in Wisconsin, she observed that I'm turning into my grandmother more and more every day.It's true: Moving to the Midwest has unleashed my transformation into a version of my Russian grandma who's always foraging and feeding everyone with baked goods and big meals.All this simple abundance and access to nature and nurture made me realize that Wisconsin, which I'd visited only a few times before moving here, isn't the "flyover country" so many people think it is.
After only six months, it truly feels like home.
Recommended video
Los Angeles
California
Wisconsin
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account