This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Linux
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
Over the decades, I've used or tested just about every Linux distribution available, and this one has stood above all else.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 24, 2025 at 8:14 a.m. PT
elementary OS is as easy to use as it is classy. Jack Wallen\ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysOver the years, one Linux distribution has risen above the rest.That distribution is based on Ubuntu, so it's user-friendly.The best of the best is equal parts beauty and usability.Ubuntu (and all of its spins), Fedora (and all of its spins), Red Hat (before Fedora was a thing), openSUSE, Linux Mint, Arch, Gentoo, Pop!_OS…The list goes on.Also: The easiest way to try out Ubuntu LinuxI've used and/or tested so many Linux distributions that it makes my head spin. I've even tested distributions that are no longer with us (remember Caldera OpenLinux?). Scattered within that overly-long list is a handful of distributions that I would call my favorites (or those I would be happy to use as my default). That list would look something like:UbuntuPop!_OSUbuntu BudgieBodhi LinuxLinux MintFedoraPop!_OS is interesting because, while it may not be my favorite Linux distribution (although COSMIC desktop is making that harder and harder to say), I use it as my default because it ships with System76 hardware. Because both hardware and OS are created by the same company, Pop!_OS runs like a dream, and that's why I continue using System76's OS.Regardless, there is also one particular Linux distribution that I would call my all-time favorite Linux distribution. I've written about this particular open-source OS countless times and have regularly deemed it "your best first distribution."That OS, as Sherlock Holmes would put it, is elementary… as in elementaryOS.Why elementaryOS?I could say that it's all about the elementaryOS desktop environment, Pantheon. That's a great place to start, but the reasoning behind my decision doesn't start or end there.It all begins with the elementaryOS tagline, "The thoughtful, capable, and ethical replacement for Windows and MacOS."Thoughtful, capable, and ethical. If there were any three words I would like attached to my OS, it would be those. I know, you're probably thinking, "We're talking about an OS! Wouldn't an OS be better served with something like powerful, user-friendly, and efficient?" Sure, if you only saw your OS as a means to a productive end. From my perspective, an operating system is about so much more. Above all, the motive behind an operating system has to be thoughtful, in that the developers have to be thoughtful of its purpose and potential user base. An OS also needs to be capable, but not just in a business sense. An OS needs to be capable of many things, such as education, entertainment, and community. Finally, if an OS cannot be ethical, why should it even exist?ElementaryOS is all of those things.But it doesn't end there.Also: While Windows 10 users panic, Ubuntu makes extending support easy - here's howThe elementary audienceWhen I think of elementaryOS, one thing that always comes to mind is its audience. Who is this distribution best suited for? From my perspective, the answer to that question is everyone. But what this is really about is how the developers of this OS know the audience has proven, since it first came into being, that they know and understand their audience.This Linux distribution doesn't appeal to new users by talking down to them. Rather, it celebrates them by being easy to use without holding the user's hand. Instead, the developers have created an operating system that guides the user with simplicity. By taking this path, the developers make it such that seasoned users aren't turned off by the OS.Again, elementaryOS is an OS for everyone.Also: 5 of the easiest, quickest Linux distros to install - and I've tried them allThe UIOK… you knew I was going to bring this up. How could I not? I've been a huge fan of the Pantheon environment for a long time. It strikes the perfect balance between aesthetics and usability. ElementaryOS is what would happen if MacOS and Windows made a baby, only if said baby were open-source.If you've read my work enough, you know that I like my desktops to be elegant. This is one of the reasons why I was so excited for Apple to release Liquid Glass. It's one of the reasons why I believe System76's COSMIC desktop will eventually become the most widely used DE on the market.That dock and top bar layout has proven, over and over, to be the most elegant and efficient available. And although elementaryOS lacks the level of theming capability found in say, KDE Plasma or COSMIC, it's the only OS I've ever used that didn't make me think, "How can I make this prettier?" ElementaryOS is a Linux distribution that doesn't need to be tweaked and twisted.ConsistencyConsistency tends to get overlooked within the realm of Linux. If you take a look at the evolution of elementaryOS, you'll find that it has mostly looked the same since its early days. Even with major releases, the look and feel of elementaryOS is always the same. This is something you can count on, and I cannot imagine this Linux distribution will ever see dramatic, earth-shattering changes. This is important. When new users look at how some of the other distributions are always changing or offer multiple desktop environments, it can be confusing or off-putting. With elementaryOS, you always know what you're getting. That kind of consistency keeps users coming back.Let's face it: one of the first things that attracts new users to a specific distribution is the desktop used. You go to Ubuntu because you like Canonical's take on GNOME. You opt for Fedora KDE because Plasma is brilliant. Also: The best Linux distributions for beginners: Expert tested and reviewedYou are attracted to elementaryOS because of Pantheon.So, why would distributions want to make dramatic changes to the desktop? The elementaryOS developers understand this, which is a key component to the desktop being so consistent.Repeat after me: Users like consistency.Why? Most people fear change. Consider the backlash the GNOME team had to withstand when they migrated from GNOME 2 to GNOME 3 (aka GNOME Shell). That was fierce, and I was surprised the team didn't roll back that change.As the saying goes, "If it isn't broken, why fix it?"Put it all togetherWhen you put all of these reasons together, you might see why I've chosen elementaryOS as my all-time favorite Linux distribution. If System76 didn't ship with Pop!_OS (and work so seamlessly with it), you can bet my go-to would be elementaryOS because all of those things come together to make an extraordinary Linux distribution.Open Source
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Why ZorinOS 18 might be the new best Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How much RAM does your Linux PC really need in 2025? I did the math so you don't have to
This beautiful Linux distro deserves to be better known - here's why
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use