AI is changing the IT recruitment game. Here's what you need to know now | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Home
Home & Office
Work Life
AI is changing the IT recruitment game. Here's what you need to know now
It's rough out there for job seekers and employers alike.
Written by
Joe McKendrick, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 18, 2025 at 12:00 a.m. PT
Westend61/Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysEmployers look in many places for qualified job candidates.AI is part of job placement, but many companies have outdated tech.Only 17% of companies have the right tools to identify IT talent.I regularly hear about people responding to hundreds of job ads and getting very few responses. Even more distressingly, I hear about attending a series of interviews and then being ghosted. In these challenging job-search situations, it's good to know where potential employers actively look to fill their openings, especially in the technology space. LinkedIn and other social media sites, it turns out, are where companies and job seekers are most inclined to connect. Also: Got AI skills? You can earn 43% more in your next job - and not just for tech workThe platforms most commonly used by employers seeking employees include LinkedIn Recruiter, used by 47%, and general social media, also cited by 47%, according to a survey of 1,000 companies released by TestGorilla. Indeed's Smart Sourcing service is the choice of 42% of organizations, while 38% seek referrals from company networks. The most effective approach is person-to-person interactions, such as connecting and networking via company connections and relying on word-of-mouth referrals. I think the best route to this destination is joining professional associations and user groups. However, emerging technology brings another option -- matching algorithms, which are extremely impersonal but highly efficient. In many cases, artificial intelligence (AI) is employed by companies to screen resumes and analyze video interviews. Already, more than 20% of managers report they frequently let AI make decisions regarding employee promotions, placements, and terminations. Also: Jobs for young developers are dwindling, thanks to AIAt the same time, candidates are learning to game hiring algorithms. They "use invisible text to embed the job descriptions of the vacant position in one's resume; manipulate voice or appearance; use AI tools to generate answers to the interview questions, especially during a live or recorded virtual interview; and use AI tools to generate answers in an assessment test," observed Linchi Kwok, professor at Cal Poly Pomona, in HospitalityNet.In response to these tactics, some companies are using AI tools to discover who's gaming who. However, the TestGorilla survey found most companies aren't ready for the impact of AI. Only 37% said they feel "well prepared for AI, automation, and advanced analytics shaping the future of sourcing." By sourcing, the survey's authors mean companies reaching out to attract new employees.When it comes to sourcing technology talent, many companies' systems are outdated. With outdated tools and platforms in place, only 17% of survey respondents said they can aggressively source for a majority of their open positions. They blamed outdated candidate data (44%), and 48% said there are major integration gaps between tools. Still, more than two-thirds (67%) said they hope to invest in new sourcing technology in the next 12 months. These tools could be essential for companies to find individuals with specific skills, such as AI development, which is an expanding part of the IT talent market. Also consider the irony: AI is needed to find AI talent. Also: Is AI a job killer or creator? There's a third option: Startup rocket fuelMany professionals, of course, will say they have AI talent -- it's the in-thing to have. For hiring companies, the greatest challenge (expressed by 58% of respondents) is determining whether candidates actually have the skills listed on their resumes. On the other side, three in five job seekers struggle to stand out with their resumes. Adding to the challenge is the possibility that "employers don't quite know which skills they're looking for," the survey's authors added. Some imagination is now required, as AI will create new job roles. As the survey authors suggested, "Skills shortages are a genuine problem, especially for emerging capabilities like AI. But research we conducted earlier this year shows that this is being compounded by hiring's match-making problem."This shortage is not strictly a supply-and-demand issue, they continued: "On top of skills shortages, skilled talent and open roles just aren't finding each other. Because of this, it's good to remember that your dream candidate may or may not have the background or experience that you expect. It pays to know skill and potential when you see it, regardless of where it's come from." Also: 5 ways to fill the AI skills gap in your businessThe survey authors have some recommendations for improving companies' ability to recognize talent potential: "Professional networking sites like LinkedIn Recruiter and Indeed aren't delivering," they said. "Candidate information is outdated, the information people can add to their profiles is unverified, and search and matching algorithms are ineffective."A more holistic approach is needed, they added: "Instead of sourcing via information that has little relevance for job-fit -- like education, connections, or experience -- sourcing teams need to tap into other signals to get a better picture of who candidates are before they reach out. Signals that identify which ones are actually a skills match."The arrival of digital job placement was supposed to clear up the headaches of manual want-ad searches, resume mailings, and endless interviews. However, this technology is still a work in progress. Let's hope for better ways to smooth the onerous role-matching process for employers and candidates. Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
These consumer-facing industries are the fastest adopters of AI agents
The IT job market keeps shrinking, but not for everyone - or everywhere
Why Techmeme is still every tech pro's go-to news source after 20 years
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use