Best E Ink Tablets of 2025 for Reading and Note-Taking - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechComputing Tablets
Best E Ink Tablets of 2025 for Reading and Note-Taking
E Ink screens, paper tablets, digital notebooks? The best E Ink Tablets might be the future of reading and writing.
Our Experts
Written by
Sarah Lord
Written by
Abrar Al-Heeti
Article updated on March 3, 2025 at 7:15 AM PST
Sarah Lord Writer Sarah Lord covers TVs and home entertainment. Prior to joining CNET, Sarah served as the tech and electronic reviews fellow at Insider, where she wrote about everything from smart watches and wearables to tablets and e-readers. She began her career by writing laptop reviews as an intern and subsequent freelancer at Tom's Hardware. She is also a professional actor with many credits in theater, film and television. Expertise TVs | Home Entertainment | Streaming | Computers Credentials Member of Screen Actors Guild and Actors Equity Association
See full bio
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
An environmentally friendly and tech-savvy way to keep your notes is here. With an E Ink tablet, you can jot everything down in one place and even store your notes on an online cloud to avoid losing them. And unlike standard tablets from companies like
Apple, Microsoft, Samsung and Amazon, E Ink tablets are designed to make reading and writing feel more natural and easier on the eyes.
Our Picks
Best E Ink tablet overall ReMarkable 2
Jump to details
$599 at Best Buy
Jump to details
Best color E Ink tablet ReMarkable Paper Pro
Jump to details
$679 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best E Ink tablet for Amazon content Kindle Scribe
Jump to details
$340 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best E Ink tablet for reading Kobo Elipsa 2E
Jump to details
$400 at Amazon
Jump to details
TABLET DEALS OF THE WEEK
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $167 (save $54)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $319 (save $30)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $383 (save $98)
Samsung Galaxy Tab S10 FE 128GB Wi-Fi Tablet (Gray):  $450 (save $50)
Lenovo Idea Tab Pro 128GB Wi-Fi 12.7-inch Tablet With Pen and Folio Case:  $364 (save $17) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best E Ink Tablets of 2025 for Reading and Note-Taking
What is an E Ink tablet?
Best E Ink tablet overall
Best color E Ink tablet
Best E Ink tablet for Amazon content
Best E Ink tablet for reading
What are the best uses for E Ink tablets?
Comparing E Ink tablets to iPads and e-readers
What's the difference between E Ink tablets, digital notebooks and paper tablets?
How we test E Ink tablets
E Ink tablet FAQ
There are a handful of great options to choose from, ranging from the Amazon Kindle Scribe to the ReMarkable Paper Pro. Choosing the best E Ink tablet for you comes down to your personal use case and what features you'd like to prioritize. We've listed our top picks below to help simplify your decision-making.
What is an E Ink tablet?E Ink tablets use electronic ink (hence their name) to allow you to take notes, read and mark up documents. Think of it like a digital notebook. A good E Ink tablet will be as light as an e-reader and feel natural to write on. And while there are ways to write on Apple, Microsoft, Samsung and Amazon standard tablets, E Ink tablets are made with gray-scale tech so they won't die as quickly, helping them last all day. That also makes them easier to look at for prolonged periods.That said, E ink devices aren't going to replace an iPad, as they're mostly just meant for reading and writing. You won't be able to stream your favorite show or watch the latest TikTok video on these tablets. But they should make the task at hand -- jotting down notes, reading or marking up documents -- easier to execute, especially without all those tempting distractions that would otherwise be just a tap away.So, whether you're looking for a top-of-the-line E Ink device with all the bells and whistles or a cheap E Ink tablet that gets the note-taking job done, you might just find what you're looking for below.
Sarah Lord/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Lord/CNET
Best E Ink tablet overall
ReMarkable 2
For most people, the 10.3-inch ReMarkable 2 checks all the boxes. You can jot down notes, convert your handwriting into typed text and mark up PDFs -- and it's under $500. The E Ink tablet is light and thin, at 0.19 inches thick and 0.88 pounds, making it easy to slip into a backpack or tote bag. It's got up to two weeks of battery life. And yes, it comes with a stylus -- though you'll have to pay $50 more if you want the "Plus" version with a built-in eraser.The monochrome digital display has a 1,872x1,404-pixel resolution (226 DPI). The writing and text look clear and sharp, and you can choose from over 40 templates for notes. The software is easy to use, with clear buttons at the top for you to add notebooks and folders. It has 8GB of internal storage and includes Google Drive, Dropbox and OneDrive integration. (If you want perks like unlimited cloud storage, automatic sync across devices and a protection plan, you can pay $3 a month for a Connect subscription.)The included stylus doesn't require pairing or charging but supports tilt detection and the standard 4,096 levels of pressure sensitivity. The screen has a paper-like feel, which gives the pen a level of friction that feels incredibly true to life. The ReMarkable 2 also shines with PDFs. Highlights automatically straighten themselves and turn a legible shade of gray without any needed adjustment. You can add pages to PDFs for extra notes or write in the margins with ease. The ReMarkable's thinness, two-week battery life, pen input and PDF management capabilities made this E Ink tablet my favorite. The ReMarkable 2 isn't without faults. The biggest issue is that it lacks any kind of backlight, which could be a deal breaker. Much like an actual book or notebook, this device requires an external light source to use in the dark. Even the cheapest Kindle now has front-light illumination for nighttime use. It also doesn't function particularly well as an e-reader, as the only formats it supports are PDF and unprotected epub. That means you won't be able to access your Kindle content or any other epub books with digital rights management software, which includes almost all legally purchasable ebooks on the market. Ultimately, I found this tablet to be incredibly useful. And it may just suit all your needs, too.  ... Show more
Get it now
$599 at Best Buy
$599 at Amazon
Scott Stein
Photo Gallery 1/1
Scott Stein
Best color E Ink tablet
ReMarkable Paper Pro
If you've got a slightly more generous budget, and want an E Ink tablet with a more premium feel, the ReMarkable Paper Pro is a solid choice. In addition to that signature paper-like feel, this latest release from ReMarkable features an 11.8-inch color display, as well as adjustable lighting to make reading and writing easier throughout the day -- or night. It's 0.20 inches thick and weighs 1.16 lbs, making it slightly heftier than the ReMarkable 2, but still easy to throw in a bag. The display has a 2,160x1,620 resolution (229 PPI).Like the ReMarkable 2, the battery will last up to two weeks. And unlike its predecessor, you'll get a lot more built-in storage: 64GB to be exact. It comes with a standard stylus, though if you want an upgraded version with a "finely textured finish and built-in eraser," you'll have to pay $50 more.While the ReMarkable Paper Pro brings the welcome addition of backlighting, it's not particularly bright. But it's enough to make reading and writing easier in dimly lit places like an airplane or at night in bed.Like the ReMarkable 2, there are limitations as to just how much you can do with the Paper Pro. But if your list of requirements is being able to read, write, annotate and sketch, then this E Ink tablet might fit the bill -- while also adding a welcome punch of color. If you want access to unlimited cloud storage, a protection plan and the ability to automatic sync your documents across devices, you'll have to chalk up $3 a month for a Connect subscription.  ... Show more
Get it now
$679 at Amazon
Sarah Lord/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Lord/CNET
Best E Ink tablet for Amazon content
Kindle Scribe
The Kindle Scribe comes with a fantastic 300-PPI, 10.2-inch display that is evenly lit and perfect for large-format reading. The writing experience is also very pleasant and natural, and you can choose from 16 GB, 32 GB and 64 GB options. The battery can last up to 10 to 12 weeks. The Scribe comes with a stylus, and you can pay $30 extra for the Premium version, which offers better precision and an eraser feature. It's 0.22 inches thick.The E Ink tablet looks and feels like an extra-large Kindle Paperwhite or Oasis, although it lacks the physical page-turning buttons of Amazon's premium e-reader. Words look crisp and clear, while the device itself is fast and responsive. You can access Audible via Bluetooth.But the Scribe's software limitations keep this device from soaring. The Scribe's notebooks are easy to use, but lacking in features compared to other E Ink tablets. You can export your notebooks via email, but there's no Dropbox or any other third-party support. There are 18 notebook templates available, including six lined options, graphing paper, musical notation and to-do lists. All of that is great, but these notebooks lack any smart features. For example, there's no way to insert equations or convert your handwriting to text. Similarly, writing in books and documents is too limited to be useful to serious highlighters and doodlers. That's because Amazon doesn't actually let you write directly on the page in anything other than a PDF. Instead, you'll need to write on "sticky notes" if you want to handwrite a note in a book or even a Word Doc. Not only does this prevent you from scribbling in the margins of books, but it also means you'll need to take a separate action to start writing at all.The sticky notes are then collected automatically in your Notes and Highlights section, where they are presented without any of the context in which you wrote them. It does allow you to jump to the page on which a note was written by tapping on your markings. This is great in theory, but is confusing if you have more than one note on each page, as it doesn't pinpoint the exact location where the note was created. The Scribe also doesn't let you write any kind of notes at all on manga, comics, graphic novels, magazines or newspapers.Currently, you can write directly on the page in PDFs, but the experience isn't great. The pen itself works well, but dealing with documents is more difficult than it should be. When you're in a PDF, you aren't able to adjust the font size or layout, so instead you have to pinch to zoom to enlarge or reposition the document. That part works well, and it's not too hard to find a level that works best for you. Once you're positioned in your PDF, you can't stay there. The Scribe makes it impossible to maintain your current zoom levels from one page to the next. Instead, you have to zoom all the way out again to swipe to the next page, just to reposition it all over again. This is a huge pain and makes reading long PDFs cumbersome and frustrating. Ultimately, the Scribe is great if you want a large-screen e-reader or are eager to handwrite sticky notes in Amazon books. It just isn't quite good enough at either PDFs or in-line note-taking to recommend it as anything other than a gigantic, but excellent, Kindle.The good news is Amazon is slated to release the next version of its Kindle Scribe on Dec. 4, which packs new AI-enhanced features that let you attach hand-written notes to text and save comments in the margins. Another feature converts your handwriting into legible, easy-to-read script. The base model of this second-gen Scribe comes with 16GB of storage and costs $400, or $20 more than the original. It'll also come in 32GB and 64GB options. And if you'd rather buy the original 2022 Kindle Scribe, Amazon has said those new AI-powered features should arrive there, too.  ... Show more
Get it now
$340 at Amazon
$340 at Target
Learn more
Kindle Scribe review
Sarah Lord/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Lord/CNET
Best E Ink tablet for reading
Kobo Elipsa 2E
Kobo might be a smaller company than Amazon, but it's been making e-readers for just about as long. While Amazon once made a 9.7-inch Kindle, the product never offered natural input with a touchscreen or stylus and was discontinued in 2014. More recently, Kobo was the first with a waterproof e-reader and it's the first of the major e-reading players to make a 10.3-inch device with a stylus. Like most Kobos, the Elipsa 2E is an excellent e-reader and offers battery life measured in weeks, depending on use. Unlike Kindles, Kobos has a seemingly limitless ability to customize the reading experience. You can play continuously with margins, line spacing, fonts and font size to get a page that looks exactly how you want it to, no matter the size of the screen. The included stylus can be used on any PDF or Kobo ePub, so it works just as well on library books as it does on books from the Kobo store.Speaking of the library, Kobo is known for its deep integration with the ebook library service OverDrive, as well as Libby. You can easily access, browse and download library books directly from your device, so long as your local library uses the services. Borrowing an ebook from the New York Public Library was a seamless experience and one that makes all Kobos a must-have for library lovers. You can also listen to audiobooks via Bluetooth.The Kobo Elipsa 2E has 32GB of storage, 1,404x1,872 resolution (227 PPI), weighs 0.84 pounds and is 0.29 inches thick. That makes it a bit bulkier than the ReMarkable and Scribe tablets, but it's still easy enough to toss in a bag. Where it really excels is as a large-screen, library-friendly e-reader with the ability to scribble in the margins.   ... Show more
Get it now
$400 at Amazon
What are the best uses for E Ink tablets?
E Ink tablets are great for note taking, jotting down ideas, journaling, making annotations in ebooks (when you can) and marking up documents. For people who enjoy writing with pen and paper, E Ink tablets can emulate that experience, while also offering the advantage of making your notes and documents accessible across devices like your phone or computer (though you may have to pay for this capability). Essentially, it's a way to tap into more artistic expressions while taking advantage of modern-day connectivity and digital organizational tools -- without the distraction of Instagram or TikTok notifications. Comparing E Ink tablets to iPads and e-readers
While an iPad or similar Android tablet allows for a range of activities like streaming movies and TV shows, checking social media, gaming and browsing through photos, E Ink tablets are ideal for more streamlined tasks related to reading and writing. They're designed to feel like writing with pen and paper, and their displays are easier on the eyes for that reason. You won't be able to stream the latest episode of your favorite Netflix show, but marking up documents and jotting down notes in a meeting or in class feels a lot more natural.Meanwhile, e-readers are geared specifically for folks who simply want to read (or listen to) an ebook. With a Kindle Paperwhite, for instance, you won't be able to mark up a page using a stylus -- but you can highlight text and type up notes on what you're reading. Both e-readers and E Ink tablets use E Ink technology to render words and images on the page. They both offer a distraction-free experience that's easier on the eyes than a traditional LCD color screen. E-readers tend to be smaller than size and focus only on the experience of reading a book or PDF. E Ink tablets offer e-reading features but also include the ability to use a stylus to write notes in a digital notebook and/or in the margins of PDFs and ebooks. Since handwriting is integral to the E Ink tablet experience, the devices themselves tend to be bigger to more closely approximate the size of a sheet of paper.
What's the difference between E Ink tablets, digital notebooks and paper tablets?
E Ink tablets are designed to replicate the feel of pen and paper, and make storing and organizing notes easy. A digital notebook can be an E Ink tablet, but it can also be something you use on another device like an iPad, where note taking is also an option. And a paper tablet is essentially the name for a device that creatives can use to draw or write digitally while maintaining the feel of using traditional paper, and again can be a function of an E Ink tablet, such as the ReMarkable Paper Pro. How we test E Ink tablets
Every E Ink tablet undergoes extensive hands-on testing. In this case, each tablet was used for one week of rehearsal in a professional theatrical production. This involved evaluating the set-up process, loading PDFs and books onto the devices, and using both the device and the included stylus as a script during full six-hour days of rehearsal. Tasks included highlighting, taking notes in the margins and creating and taking detailed notes in notebooks. We also downloaded ebooks onto the device and used it as a recreational e-reader.
Anecdotally, we considered the hardware design and features, stylus capabilities, overall ease of use, effective UI layouts, notebook settings, E Ink settings, PDF markup capabilities, e-reading settings and format compatibility, app support and performance, and the overall speed and reliability of the system.
E Ink tablet FAQ
Who are E Ink tablets for?
E Ink tablets are best suited for people who enjoy writing notes or sketching by hand and who need to read and mark up lots of PDF or DRM-free ebooks. They could be a particularly good fit for students, lawyers or any other professional in need of a digital, distraction-free note-taking device. They aren't for people who want constant notifications and fast processing speeds to watch videos or play games.
Show more
How long do E Ink tablets last?
It depends on the device, but some can last up to two weeks, while others can last up to 12 weeks. This is largely thanks to the fact that E Ink tablets have a low refresh rate, compared to traditional LCD or OLED displays you'd find on a smartphone or iPad, and don't emit light. The on-screen content also doesn't change as frequently as when you're watching a video or scrolling through social media on your phone, which saves power.
Show more
What is E Ink?
E Ink, or electronic ink, is display technology that's designed to emulate the look of traditional ink on paper. It consists of millions of tiny capsules filled with different colored particles, which come to the surface when an electric charge is applied (like when you move a stylus or your finger across the display) to create text and images.
Show more
About the Author
Sarah Lord Writer Sarah Lord Writer
Sarah Lord covers TVs and home entertainment. Prior to joining CNET, Sarah served as the tech and electronic reviews fellow at Insider, where she wrote about everything from smart watches and wearables to tablets and e-readers. She began her career by writing laptop reviews as an intern and subsequent freelancer at Tom's Hardware. She is also a professional actor with many credits in theater, film and television.
Read full bio
Also written by
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.