Tickets - Disrupt 2025 | TechCrunch
TechCrunch Disrupt 2025
Mobile Menu Toggle
Overview
Tickets
Investor Pass
Founder Pass
Hotel
Speakers
Agenda
Exhibit
More
Partners
Side Events
Volunteer
Startup Battlefield
TechCrunch Disrupt 2025 Tickets
Choose the ticket type that fits you and your team the best. Save before rates increase after September 26.
Have more than just you coming? Click here to explore our low group deals!
SAVE $637
$1,594
INVESTOR PASS
Buy Now
For all investors
All Attendee Pass perks, PLUS:
Speaker Q&A sessions
Investor-founder networking
Deal Flow Cafe
StrictlyVC session
Investor reception
Founder list
and more!
Click here to explore all Investor Pass perks
SAVE $598
$1,346
ATTENDEE PASS
Buy Now
For all roles and job titles
Industry Stages
Roundtables
Breakouts
Expo Hall
Braindates
and more!
SAVE $668
$1,113
FOUNDER PASS
Buy Now
For all founders
All Attendee Pass perks, PLUS:
Speaker Q&A sessions
Investor-founder networking
Deal Flow Cafe
Investor list
and more!
Click here to explore all Founder Pass perks
SAVE $231
$425
NON-PROFIT PASS
Buy Now
For anyone in non-profit or military/government
Stages
Roundtables
Breakouts
Expo Hall
Braindates
and more!
SAVE $181
$313
STUDENT PASS
Buy Now
For students or recent grads.
Stages
Roundtables
Breakouts
Expo Hall
Braindates
and more!
SAVE $138
$231
EXPO+ PASS
Buy Now
For all roles and job titles
Expo Hall
Breakouts
Braindates
and more!
Group Tickets
Save up to 15% for groups of 4-9.*
SAVE 15%
Starting at
$266
BUNDLE PASS
Buy Now
Save on Attendee, Investor, Student, and Non-Profit Passes
Have a group of 10+? Save 30% on passes!*
Please complete this payment form to receive your 10+ passes.
Book Your 10+ Group
* Group/bundle savings cannot be applied with other promotions/offers/discounts. Group/bundle savings only apply when a group of 4+ of the same pass type are purchased in one transaction. Savings cannot be applied to a bulk order of different pass types.
Compare Passes
Pass PerkAttendee PassFounder PassInvestor PassNon-Profit PassStudent PassExpo+ PassExpo Hall√√√√√√Stage(s)√√√√√Breakouts√√√√√√Roundtables√√√√√1:1 Braindates√√√√√√Small-group Braindates√√√√√√Side Events√√√√√√Event App√√√√√√Deal Flow Cafe√√StrictlyVC session√Investor receptions√Opt-in investor list√Opt-in founder list√
Ticket FAQs
What’s our cancellation/refund policy?
You can receive a 50% refund of the ticket purchase price when you email your cancellation to events@techcrunch.com by July 31, 2025, at 11:59 p.m. PT. Amount will be refunded to the method of original purchase. After July 31, 2025, tickets are nonrefundable for any reason.
Name on ticket vs. badge policy
Please note that it is TechCrunch policy that the name on attendees’ printed badge should match the name on the person’s government-issued photo ID. Nicknames or abbreviations are acceptable.
Once a badge is printed, we cannot change the name on the badge beyond fixing spelling errors or changing for a nickname.
Minors policy (under 18 years of age)
Minors: Attendees who are minors (persons younger than 18 years old) must be accompanied at all times by an adult who is 18 years or older who is legally authorized (e.g., the minor’s parent or legal guardian, or another adult who is authorized by such minor’s legal parent or guardian) to take legal responsibility for the minor.
For the avoidance of doubt, the ticket and badge policies apply to minors. Please note that some events and parties are only accessible to attendees who are 21 and over as indicated on the event registration page. Some event content may contain mature themes (e.g., sex, violence, and drug use) that may not be suitable for minors. The minor’s parent or legal guardian is responsible for managing and reviewing content and themes to see if it is suitable for the minor before, during, and/or after the event(s).
If you are registering for the event(s) on behalf of a minor, you warrant and represent that you are duly authorized to agree to these Terms & Conditions on behalf of such minor.
Can I transfer my ticket?
Select tickets are eligible for transfer. You can only transfer your ticket to another person who is eligible for the same ticket type. All transfer requests must be made through the transfer request form located in your ticket registration email with the subject line “Your Ticket Is Here | TechCrunch Disrupt 2025.” Not all ticket types are eligible to transfer.
All transfer requests must be made through the form by October 17, 2025, at 11:59 p.m. PT.
Please note, once you transfer a ticket to a new individual, we will cancel your original ticket and issue a brand-new ticket link to your recipient. They will then need to register themselves for the event.
Once a badge is printed, we cannot transfer it to a new individual.
What group discounts can I get for groups of 4+?
Groups of 4-9: 15% off the current, single, full-ticket price rate for that ticket type.
Groups of 10+: 30% off the current, single, full-ticket price rate for that ticket type.
In the event we offer a group discount in connection with the event as indicated on the event registration page, any such discount cannot be combined with other discounts or promotions (e.g., two-for-one sales), and must be of one single ticket type for the whole group.  All registrants within the group/bundle pass must qualify for that pass type. You cannot mix and match ticket types to claim/accumulate a group discount.
You can book “bundle” passes of four to nine people directly on the ticket website for Attendee Passes, Investor Passes, Non-Profit Passes, and Student Passes. We do not offer bundle/group rate for Founder and/or Expo+ Passes.
Group passes must all be booked during one (1) single session under one (1) order to qualify for the discount — that is, a group discount cannot be applied to multiple or accumulated registration sessions or to separate orders.
For groups of 10+, please book your passes through our 10+ group order form here.
I am a stealth founder/soon-to-be founder.
Can I book a Founder Pass?
Yes! You can book a Founder Pass for both of these instances. For your company website, if not ready, please put in your LinkedIn account. For the other company-related questions, try to answer as best you can.
Is there a fee if I lose my badge at the event?
Yes, all lost badges will incur a $75 reprint fee on-site at the event.
How does TechCrunch verify a Founder, Investor, Non-Profit, or Student Pass?
TechCrunch reviews registrations to verify that the person is who they say they are and that they booked an appropriate pass type. You will be notified via email if we need further information to verify your eligibility for a specific badge type.
How can I update information on my ticket?
To update the information on your ticket, click the “Manage Your Registration Details” link on your confirmation email with the subject line “Your Ticket Is Here | TechCrunch Disrupt 2025.” The information provided on your ticket will need to match your government-issued photo identification card, and the information provided will be used on your badge during the event.
Please note, you are NOT able to update/change your email address through the “Manage Your Registration Details.” If you need to update your email, please contact us at events@techcrunch.com.
Am I able to exchange my ticket for a different type?
You have the option to exchange the ticket type that you purchased only one (1) time.  If you elect to exchange your ticket to a more expensive ticket type, you will be responsible for paying the difference between what you originally paid and the current ticket price of the new ticket type before the change can be processed. However, if you decide to exchange your ticket to a less expensive type, you are not eligible for a refund on the price difference regardless of the date of purchase. Once an exchange occurs, we can no longer make additional ticket changes or revert back to the original ticket. Certain ticket types have additional access and qualification restrictions; proof of qualification will be required before an exchange can occur.
All requests for an exchange must be sent to events@techcrunch.com.
Can I use the same ticket for multiple people (i.e., share a single badge with team members/friends)?
No, each badge belongs to one individual. We check IDs at registration and also at the conference doors every day.
Help! I can’t find my email registration confirmation.
If you’re having trouble locating your ticket, search for the email subject line “Your Ticket Is Here | TechCrunch Disrupt 2025” in your inbox/spam/trash/promotions folder. If you’re still having trouble locating your ticket, please email events@techcrunch.com.
Do you offer a single-day ticket?
No, TechCrunch Disrupt does not have any single-day tickets available. All tickets are for all three days of the conference.
I need an invoice. Can you send me one?
Once you’ve purchased your tickets, you’ll receive an invoice in your ticket confirmation email. If you haven’t yet, then email events@techcrunch.com.
I saw a ticket price adjustment and/or promotion. Can I take advantage of it on an already purchased ticket?
If you receive a promotion or discount directly from Yahoo (e.g., through the TechCrunch website, newsletter, or a TechCrunch advertisement) on a pass type that you have already purchased, we will refund the total price difference, provided that:
You paid more than the current promotional offer rate.
The request is made within 7 days of your original purchase date by emailing events@techcrunch.com with proof of the promotion or offer (screenshot, email, etc.).
The request is in conjunction with a current and live promotional offer that applies to your specific ticket type(s) purchased on TechCrunch.com.
Refunds will be made to the original form of payment.  Requests made after 7 days of the purchase date will not be considered or eligible. In addition, these types of requests cannot be mixed with other promotional discounts or offers.  For clarity, we will not provide such refunds for offers made from third parties (e.g., event partners or sponsors, event speakers, or other event attendees).
Ready to choose your Disrupt 2025 ticket?
Click one of the options below to get started:
Individual Passes
Bundle Passes(Groups of 4-9)
Group Passes(Groups of 10+)
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunchStaffContact UsAdvertiseCrunchboard JobsSite Map
Terms of ServicePrivacy PolicyRSS Terms of UseCode of Conduct
Meta ConnectGroqStubhubLiquid GlassVibe CodingTech LayoffsChatGPT
© 2024 Yahoo.