Docker Plans FAQs | Docker
DocsGet SupportContact Sales
AI
AI
Docker for AI
Simplifying Agent Development
Docker Offload
Break free of local constraints
Docker MCP Catalog and Toolkit
Connect and manage MCP tools
Docker Model Runner
Local-first LLM inference made easy
More resources for developers
Docker Brings Compose to the Agent Era: Building AI Agents is Now Easy
Docker Accelerates Agent Development
Read more
Products
Products
Docker Desktop
Containerize your applications
Docker Hub
Discover and share container images
Docker Scout
Simplify the software supply chain
Docker Build Cloud
Speed up your image builds
Testcontainers Desktop
Local testing with real dependencies
Testcontainers Cloud
Test without limits in the cloud
Docker MCP Catalog and Toolkit
Connect and manage MCP tools
Docker Hardened Images
Ship with secure, enterprise-ready images
Docker Desktop v4.43
Find out what’s new to Docker Desktop in the latest release
Read more
Developers
Developers
Documentation
Find guides for Docker products
Getting Started
Learn the Docker basics
Resources
Search a library of helpful materials
Training
Skill up your Docker knowledge
Extensions SDK
Create and share your own extensions
Community
Connect with other Docker developers
Open Source
Explore open source projects
Preview Program
Help shape the future of Docker
Customer Stories
Get inspired with customer stories
Get the latest Docker news
More resources for developers
Introducing Docker Model Runner
A faster, simpler way to run and test AI models locally
Read more
Deliver Quickly. Build Securely. Stay Competitive.
Meet growing demands for speed and security with integrated, efficient solutions
Read more
PricingSupportBlog
Company
Company
About Us
Let us introduce ourselves
What is a Container?
Learn about containerization
Why Docker
Discover what makes us different
Trust
Find our customer trust resources
Partners
Become a Docker partner
Customer Success
Learn how you can succeed with Docker
Events
Attend live and virtual meet ups
Docker Store
Gear up with exclusive SWAG
Careers
Apply to join our team
Contact Us
We’d love to hear from you
Docker Announces SOC 2 Type 2 Attestation & ISO 27001 Certification
Learn what this means for Docker security and compliance
Read more
Search
Sign In
Get Started
Toggle menu
Docker Plans FAQs
Docker plans overview
I’m a Docker Business customer, what is new in my plan?
Docker Business list pricing remains the same, but you will now have access to more of Docker’s products:
Instead of paying an additional per-seat fee, Docker Build Cloud is now available to all users in your Docker plan. Learn how to use Build Cloud.
Docker Build Cloud included minutes are increasing from 800/mo to 1500/mo.
Docker Scout now includes unlimited repos with continuous vulnerability analysis, an increase from 3. Get started with Docker Scout quickstart.
1500 Testcontainers Cloud runtime minutes are now included for use either in Docker Desktop or for CI.
Docker Hub hourly image pull rate limits have been removed.
If you require additional Build Cloud minutes or Testcontainers Cloud runtime minutes, you can add these to your plan with consumption-based pricing. See the pricing page for more details.
I’m a Docker Team customer, what is new in my plan?
Docker Team now includes the following benefits:
Instead of paying an additional per-seat fee, Docker Build Cloud is now available to all users in your Docker plan. Learn how to use Build Cloud.
Docker Build Cloud minutes are increasing from 400/mo to 500/mo.
Docker Scout now includes unlimited repos with continuous vulnerability analysis, an increase from 3. Get started with Docker Scout quickstart.
500 Testcontainers Cloud runtime minutes are now included for use either in Docker Desktop or for CI.
Docker Hub hourly image pull rate limits will be removed.
The minimum number of users is 1 (lowered from 5)
Docker Team price increased from $9/user/month (annual) to $15/user/mo (annual) and from $11/user/month (monthly) to $16/user/month (monthly). If you require additional Build Cloud minutes or Testcontainers Cloud runtime minutes, you can add these to your plan with consumption-based pricing, or reach out to sales for invoice pricing. See the pricing page for more details.
I’m a Docker Pro customer, what is new with my plan?
Docker Pro now includes:
Docker Build Cloud minutes increased from 100/month to 200/month and no monthly fee. Learn how to use Build Cloud.
2 included repos with continuous vulnerability analysis in Docker Scout. Get started with Docker Scout quickstart.
100 Testcontainers Cloud runtime minutes are now included for use either in Docker Desktop or for CI.
Docker Hub hourly image pull rate limits will be removed.
Docker Pro plans increased from $5/month (annual) to $9/month (annual) and from $7/month (monthly) to $11/month (monthly). If you require additional Build Cloud minutes, Docker Scout repos or Testcontainers Cloud runtime minutes, you can add these to your plan with consumption-based pricing. See the pricing page for more details.
I’m a Docker Personal user, what is included in my plan?
Docker Personal plans remain free but still subject to our licensing terms.
When you are logged into your account, you will see additional features and entitlements:
1 included repo with continuous vulnerability analysis in Docker Scout. Get started with Docker Scout quickstart.
Unlimited public Docker Hub repos.
1 private Docker Hub repo.
Updated Docker Hub image pull rate limit of 100 pulls/hr/user.
Unauthenticated users will be limited to 10 Docker Hub pulls/hr/IP address.
Docker Personal users who want to start or continue using Docker Build Cloud may trial the service for seven days, or upgrade to a Docker Pro plan. Docker Personal users may also trial Testcontainers Cloud for 7 days.
When does new pricing go into effect?
New pricing goes into effect on December 10, 2024, for all new customers.
For all existing customers, new pricing will take effect on your next renewal date after December 9, 2024. When you renew, you will receive the benefits and entitlements of the new plans. Between now and your renewal date, your existing plan details will apply.
Subscription
What kind of entitlement do the subscription plans offer?
The subscriptions provide customers access to the entire suite of Docker Products. Each of the subscription plans has a clear definition of the features, use limits, and costs associated with each of the Docker suite of products.
What kind of users are required to pay for the subscription?
All users authorized to access any products or features listed in the corresponding paid subscription plan are required to have a paid subscription.
The customer is required to pay for the total number of authorized users to a paid subscription plan. Customers have the flexibility to adjust the actual users in the system to access the products as long as the total number of authorized users is consistent with the paid user count.
Are users required to authenticate for accessing all of the products?
All users are required to authenticate to access Docker Build Cloud, Docker Scout, and Testcontainers Cloud. Users are highly encouraged to authenticate when using Docker Desktop and Hub to receive full access to all features, to allow organizations to have clear visibility in product adoption, as well as gain additional security benefits for the organization.
How do we get access to all of the products included in the subscription plans?
Once a subscription is active, Docker will automatically provision and activate the account for the customer to access each of the products. Please refer to this doc for more details.
Can I disable certain products or services of my subscription?
Yes. By default, once the subscription is active, the users of a subscription plan will have access to all products. At the same time, the owners or admins of a subscription plan can disable a service in the admin console. Please refer to this doc for more details.
Who’s required to pay for Docker subscription plans?
Each subscription plan clearly defines its features, usage limits, and costs. Customers who want access to any paid products or features must subscribe to a paid plan.
For small companies with fewer than 250 employees AND less than $10M in revenue, Docker will continue to offer free usage of Docker Desktop only under the following terms:
4.2 Specific License Limitations for Standalone use of Docker Desktop.
(a) The use of Docker Desktop without a paid Subscription, is further restricted(i) to your use for a non-commercial open source project and/or (ii) use in a commercial undertaking with fewer than 250 employees and less than US $10,000,000 (or equivalent local currency) in annual revenue. Government Entities shall not use Docker Desktop or access other Entitlements of the Service without purchasing a Subscription
Docker’s open-source software such as the Docker Engine is accessible for all and supported by the Moby project maintainers and community members.
I am part of a “Free Team” plan, what am I eligible for?
Free Team plans include unlimited public repos, one team, up to 3 seats, and 100 pulls/hr/user instead of 10 pulls/hr/IP address. They do not have access to Testcontainers Cloud, or Docker Build Cloud without upgrading to Pro, Team, or Business plan depending on requirements. Users on Free Team plans that wish to upgrade to the new paid plans can do so on December 10, 2024.
Billing
Can I pay for the subscription plan and specific product consumption with an invoice?
Docker Team and Docker Business customers with 25 or more Users may purchase annual plans with an invoice by contacting sales.
For business subscription plan customers, Docker’s Sales team can also assist you in pre-purchasing consumption-based products (Build Cloud minutes, Scout Repos, Testcontainers Cloud runtime minutes, and Hub consumption) with an invoice.
Do I get an invoice for the on-demand consumption?
For self-service purchases of a subscription plan, the on-demand consumption of a product will be charged to the credit card on file at the end of the monthly billing cycle and an invoice will be issued.
For the sales-led purchase, an invoice will be issued to the customers at the end of the monthly billing cycle when on-demand consumption is incurred.
Docker Hub
For general Docker Hub documentation, visit https://docs.docker.com/docker-hub/. View the latest update to Docker Hub Usage Policies.
What is the definition of “an image pull”?
An image pull includes both a version check and any images downloaded as a result of a pull request from either public or private repositories on Docker Hub.
How do hourly Image pull rate limits work?
There is no hourly image pull rate limit for users or automated systems with a paid subscription.
Docker Personal users using Docker Hub will experience hourly rate limits on image pull requests. For authenticated Personal users, there is a 100 pull/hour rate limit per user; for unauthenticated users, there is a 10 pull/hour rate limit per IP address.
For more information on image pull rates, please visit this doc.
Can I still pay for a Service Account?
As of December 10th, 2024, Docker will no longer offer Service Accounts as an add-on for customers on new plans.
Existing Service Account agreements will be honored until their current term expires.
Can I still buy the IP Allowlist offering?
Docker is phasing out the IP Allowlisting feature as a standard offer.
Existing contracts will be honored, and any new purchases need to be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. Docker will work with customers to find suitable alternatives for their use cases where possible.
Do I still have access to the Autobuild service?
Yes, you will still have access to the Autobuild service.
What will the impact be to Docker Sponsored Open Source (DSOS)?
The Docker Sponsored Open Source program will continue on as is, including all resources described in the docs page: https://docs.docker.com/trusted-content/dsos-program/
A key benefit of our DSOS program has always been fewer restrictions on rate limits for those projects that qualify. This will continue to be the case and we will be expanding DSOS resources to ensure ongoing coverage as new projects become popular.
Looking to apply to join DSOS? The program is ideal for developers working on projects without a path to commercialization: https://www.docker.com/community/open-source/application/
Docker Build Cloud
For complete Docker Build Cloud documentation, visit https://docs.docker.com/build-cloud/.
What is a builder?
A builder is a build engine that you can use to run your builds. Each subscription plan comes with a default builder configuration. Contact sales if you need additional CPUs, Cache, RAM, IOPs, or builders. For more information on builders, visit ​​https://docs.docker.com/build/builders/.
What is the definition of a “build minute”?
“Build Minutes” refers to the amount of minutes used by the builders to access Docker Build Cloud whether from a user or automated system.
How do I pay for “build minutes”?
All paid subscriptions receive an amount of build minutes included each month. These included minutes do not rollover. Customers can pre-purchase additional build minutes either through self-serve or by contacting your sales rep. There is no on-demand consumption available at this time.
Can I buy more than 20,000 minutes?
Yes. Customers can pre-purchase additional minutes in several different fixed increments from 500 to 20,000 minutes. There is no limit to how many minutes a customer can pre-purchase. Customers can pre-purchase as many buckets of 20,000 minutes as they want.
When will the pre-purchased build minutes expire?
All pre-purchased consumption expires at the end of a customer’s subscription term which can be monthly, annually or other agreed term.
What will happen if I use up my build limits? Will service be disrupted immediately?
If the minutes are used up in the middle of a build or builds, the service will not be interrupted. No new image builds can be executed unless additional minutes are pre-purchased.
Can I try Build Cloud without a paid subscription?
If you do not have a Docker subscription, you may sign up for a free Personal account, which comes with a free trial for Docker Build Cloud.
How do I know how many minutes to buy?
Customers can get an idea of their total consumption needs by analyzing usage patterns from the included build minutes in their trial or paid plan.
Do I get an alert when I am over the limit of purchased consumption?
Customers can view their usage at any time by visiting build.docker.com and logging in to their account. From there, consumption notifications can be modified under Settings & Billing. Select “Consumption notifications” to specify which users will receive notifications and when notifications are sent.
Can I disable Docker Build Cloud?
Yes. The Hub organization owner or admin can disable the service for the organization. Please refer to this doc for more info.
Docker Scout
For complete Docker Scout documentation, visit https://docs.docker.com/scout/.
What is a “Scout-enabled repository” and how are they counted?
A “Scout-enabled repository” is an image repository that has been explicitly enabled for Scout’s advanced image analysis.
Plan limits relating to Scout-enabled repositories refer to a maximum number of repositories that can be enabled with Docker Scout at any point in time.For more information, please refer to this doc.
How do I pay for additional Scout-enabled repositories?
Personal and Pro users have access to 1 and 2 Scout-enabled repositories respectively.
Those customers can access an unlimited number of Scout-enabled repositories by upgrading to a Team or Business plan.
How do I know how many repositories are Scout-enabled?
Please visit https://scout.docker.com/settings/repos. The repositories view provides real-time data on how many Scout-enabled repositories are enabled compared to your plan’s limit.
Can I disable the Docker Scout product access?
Yes. The owner and administrators of the Hub organization can delete the Scout account to disable the service access in their Hub organization. Please refer to our docs for more info.
Docker Testcontainers Cloud
For complete Testcontainers Cloud documentation, visit https://testcontainers.com/cloud/docs/.
What is the definition of “worker minute”?
Worker minute is a unit of measurement of usage on Testcontainers Cloud on through both desktop and CI use cases.
How do I pay for additional Cloud Runtime minutes?
Customers can pre-purchase minutes through sales only. Without pre-purchase, all usage will be charged automatically to the account at the end of each monthly billing cycle.
All paid subscriptions receive an amount of minutes included each month. These included minutes do not rollover. Customers can pre-purchase additional minutes by contacting their sales reps. If no minutes have been pre-purchased, customers will be billed for minutes exceeding their plan limits at the end of each monthly billing cycle at the on-demand rate.
When does pre-purchased consumption expire?
Customers are free to purchase any amount of consumption at any time during the subscription term. All pre-purchased consumption expires at the end of the subscription term, which can be monthly, annually or other agreed term.
Can I try Testcontainers Cloud without a paid subscription?
If you do not have a paid Docker subscription, you may sign up for a free Personal account which gives you a free trial for Testcontainers Cloud.
How do I know how much I have used?
Users can see their usage on the https://app.testcontainers.cloud/dashboard/billing page. We send monthly invoices that contain the number of worker minutes/seats used in the previous month.
Renewal, Expansion and Account Change
How do I upgrade from the free Docker Personal Plan to any of the paid Docker plans?
Customers can perform upgrades through both self-service and sale-led purchase methods available to each plan.
Can I upgrade from Docker Pro to the Docker Team plan?
Yes. Customers can perform upgrades through self-service.
How do I upgrade from Docker Team to the Docker Business plan?
Customers can perform upgrades through both self-service and sales-led purchase methods.
I am part of a “Free Team” plan, how can I subscribe to any of the new Docker subscription plans?
Free Team plans may subscribe to a paid Team or Business plan through both self-service and sale-led purchase methods available.
Do I need to do anything at the end of a subscription plan?
For all self-serve subscriptions, the plan will be automatically renewed at the end of the subscription period. Self-serve customers can cancel their subscription at any time prior to the renewal date, but are not subject to refunds outside of a 30-day window.
Can I downgrade from the Docker Business plan to the Docker Team plan?
Yes. With the downgrade, you will lose the additional entitlements associated with a Business plan, your team will only have one Hub organization with only one Hub namespace, and your team size will be limited and you will not be able to use SSO to manage users or log in, and many more enterprise-grade security and governance features. You must contact the Docker Sales and Support team to complete the downgrade process.
Can I downgrade from Docker Business or Team plans to Docker Pro plan?
No. The Pro plan does not include the support of the Hub organization and only allows a single user usage. The customers can decide to stay on the Team plan with a minimum one user or cancel the subscription at the end of the subscription period.
What is Docker’s Minimum Order Quantity (MOQ) policy and who is it for?
Our MOQ policy applies to contracted customers as follows:
New Docker Business or Teams Annual Customers: A minimum purchase of 25 seats is required for new customers.
Existing Docker Business or Team Annual Amendments: A minimum of 10 additional seats must be purchased for existing customers.
Marketplace, Partner Resellers, and/or Distributors: The same MOQ requirements for new and existing business (25 seats for new, 10 for existing) apply to purchases made through our partner ecosystem.
Products
Products Overview
Docker Desktop
Docker Hub
Docker Scout
Docker Build Cloud
Testcontainers Desktop
Testcontainers Cloud
Docker MCP Catalog and Toolkit
Docker Hardened Images
Features
Command Line Interface
IDE Extensions
Container Runtime
Docker Extensions
Trusted Open Source Content
Secure Software Supply Chain
Developers
Documentation
Getting Started
Trainings
Extensions SDK
Community
Open Source
Preview Program
Newsletter
Pricing
Personal
Pro
Team
Business
Pricing FAQ
Contact Sales
Company
About Us
What is a Container
Blog
Why Docker
Trust
Customer Success
Partners
Events
Docker System Status
Newsroom
Swag Store
Brand Guidelines
Trademark Guidelines
Careers
Contact Us
Languages
English
日本語
© 2025 Docker Inc. All rights reserved
Terms of Service
Privacy
Legal
Cookie Settings