New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancements
Tablet meets laptop in this $170 open-box Asus Chromebook deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityNew Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
By Bill Toulas
September 24, 2025
04:13 PM
0
Two vulnerabilities affecting the firmware of Supermicro hardware, including Baseboard Management Controller (BMC) allow attackers to update systems with maliciously crafted images.
Supermicro is a maker of servers, motherboards, and data center hardware. BMC is a microcontroller on Supermicro server motherboards that permits remote system monitoring and management even if the system is powered off.
Experts at firmware security company Binarly discovered a bypass for a flaw (CVE-2024-10237) that Supermicro patched this year in January along with another vulnerabililty identified as CVE-2025-6198.
"This security issue could allow potential attackers to gain complete and persistent control of both the BMC system and the main server OS," Binarly researchers say.
Both security issues can be used to update BMC systems with unofficial firmware, but the researchers say that CVE-2025-6198 can alse be exploited to bypass the BMC RoT (Root of Trust) - a security feature validating that the system is booting with legitimate firmware.
Planting malicious firmware enables persistence across reboots and OS re-installs, high-level control of the server, and reliable bypass of security checks.
To fix CVE-2024-10237, Supermicro added checks to restrict custom fwmap entries, which are a table of instructions inside the firmware image that could be leveraged to manipulate firmware images.
The signature validation processSource: Binarly
However, Binarly researchers discovered that it was still possible to inject a malicious fwmap before the vendor’s original is loaded by the system, declaring the signed regions in a way that would let the attacker relocate or replace actual content while keeping the digest consistent.
This means that the calculated hash equals the signed value and the signature verification succeeds, even though parts in the firmware image have been swapped or replaced.
Bypassing the checkSource: Binarly
As a result, the BMC accepts and flashes the image, introducing a potentially malicious bootloader or kernel, while everything still appears signed and valid.
The researchers reported the issue to Supermicro. The company confirmed the vulnerability, which is now identified as CVE-2025-7937.
The second bug that Binarly discovered, CVE-2025-6198, arises from a flawed validation logic within the auth_bmc_sig function, executed in the OP-TEE environment of the X13SEM-F motherboard firmware.
Since the signed regions are defined in the uploaded image itself, attackers can modify the kernel or other regions and relocate original data to unused firmware space, keeping the digest valid.
The researchers demonstrated flashing and execution of a customized kernel, demonstrating that kernel authentication is not performed during boot, meaning the Root of Trust feature only partially protects the process.
Injecting a custom BMC firmwareSource: Binarly
Exploiting the vulnerability achieves the same result as the bypass, permitting the injection of malicious firmware or downgrading the existing image to a less secure one.
Supermicro has released firmware fixes for impacted models. Binarly has released proof-of-concept exploits for both issues, so prompt action to protect potentially impacted systems is required.
BMC firmware flaws are persistent and can be particularly dangerous, in some cases causing mass-bricking of servers. These problems are also not theoretical, as CISA has previously flagged exploitation of such bugs in the wild.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
ReVault flaws let hackers bypass Windows login on Dell laptopsUnpatched Squid Servers Exposed to DoS, Code Execution AttacksNew Lenovo UEFI firmware updates fix Secure Boot bypass flawsUnpatched flaw in OnePlus phones lets rogue apps text messagesLibraesva ESG issues emergency fix for bug exploited by state hackers
BMC
Bypass
Firmware
Image
Server
Vulnerability
Bill Toulas
Bill Toulas is a tech writer and infosec news reporter with over a decade of experience working on various online publications, covering open-source, Linux, malware, data breach incidents, and hacks.
Previous Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT