Huntington’s disease treated for first time using gene therapy
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
25 September 2025
Huntington’s disease treated for first time using gene therapy
Preliminary results from a small trial offer the clearest evidence yet that the brain disease’s progression can be slowed.
By
Elie Dolgin
Elie Dolgin
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
A brain scan of a person with Huntington’s disease, which causes a loss of brain volume as neurons are killed off by the accumulation of a mutant protein.Credit: Zephyr/Science Photo LibraryA one-time gene therapy can markedly slow the progression of Huntington’s disease, potentially paving the way for the first ever treatment to alter the course of this rare, inherited brain disorder.In a small trial of 29 people who were in the early stages of Huntington’s-related decline, participants who received a high dose of the therapy directly into their brains saw the disease slow by 75% over three years, compared with those in a control group.Genetic therapies offer new hope against incurable brain diseasesThe benefit was statistically significant across several clinical measures, according to data released this week by uniQure, a gene-therapy company based in Amsterdam. Trial investigators also observed a reduction in the level of a toxic protein linked to neurodegeneration in the spinal fluid of people who received the therapy. On the strength of these findings, uniQure executives said they plan to seek regulatory approval for the treatment next year.“This gene therapy is obviously a big step forward,” says Sandra Kostyk, a neurologist at the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center in Columbus, who was involved in the trial. “The data look quite good.”Slowing the disease’s advance could translate into many extra years of independence for people with Huntington’s, Kostyk says, but it is not a cure. And, with so few participants, the trial’s results — still unpublished — should be viewed as preliminary, she adds. “I think we need more time and more data.”A deadly repeatPeople living with Huntington’s disease typically see their symptoms progress year by year, usually starting between the ages of 35 and 55. What often begins as a subtle loss of coordination or forgetfulness then often progresses to involuntary movements, sharp mood swings and a gradual unravelling of memory and thought.The disease is caused by excessive DNA repeats in a gene called huntingtin, which leads to the production of a faulty protein that slowly poisons the brain. There are currently no therapies that address this root cause, so those who inherit the mutation are left only with drugs that ease symptoms.Some of the first attempts to develop a treatment focused on antisense therapy, a gene-targeted strategy that uses short strands of DNA or RNA to dial down production of the defective huntingtin protein. The approach showed promise in early clinical development1. But hopes dimmed in 2021 after a leading candidate failed in late-stage testing, with those receiving the therapy seeming to fare worse than those who were given a placebo2.This clinical setback redirected attention towards a different strategy: gene therapy, which aims to provide a one-time intervention that permanently silences or modifies the deficient gene at its source.Molecular muzzleIn the case of uniQure’s gene therapy, the treatment uses a harmless virus to deliver the recipe for making a short RNA sequence known as a microRNA directly into cells in the affected parts of the brain. The microRNA is designed to ‘muzzle’ the defective huntingtin gene — and stop the cells producing the faulty protein — by blocking the molecular instructions encoded by the gene, known as mRNA. Once delivered, the virus-encoded instructions stay inside the cells, which continue to produce the therapeutic microRNA. The discovery of microRNAs was feted with a Nobel Prize last year, although the technology has yet to yield any approved medicines.Administering the treatment requires a lengthy surgery in which clinicians use magnetic resonance imaging to precisely place a cannula through small holes in the skull. The therapy is then infused slowly into the striatum, a part of the brain that is among the first and hardest hit by Huntington’s disease.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03139-9
ReferencesTabrizi, S. J. et al. N. Engl. J. Med. 380, 2307–2316 (2019).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
McColgan, P. et al. N. Engl. J. Med. 389, 2203–2205 (2023).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Genetic therapies offer new hope against incurable brain diseases
What’s so special about the human brain? A graphical guide
Gene therapy’s comeback: how scientists are trying to make it safer
Revealed: Why the fatal Huntington’s gene takes so long to cause harm
Failure of genetic therapies for Huntington’s devastates community
Subjects
Brain
Neurodegeneration
Medical research
Gene therapy
Latest on:
Brain
Neurodegeneration
Medical research
Swapping old immune cells in the brain with fresh ones could treat disease
News 25 SEP 25
Tylenol is over 130 years old — why is it still the gold-standard painkiller?
News 24 SEP 25
Trump team backs an unproven drug for autism — but does it work?
News 23 SEP 25
Years of hits to the head prime the brain for decline
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Repeated head trauma causes neuron loss and inflammation in young athletes
Article 17 SEP 25
AI-powered brain device allows paralysed man to control robotic arm
News 02 SEP 25
Swapping old immune cells in the brain with fresh ones could treat disease
News 25 SEP 25
What research might be lost after the NIH’s cuts? Nature trained a bot to find out
Nature Index 24 SEP 25
Boosting immune cells to combat cancer using CRISPR engineering and large-scale in vivo testing
News & Views 24 SEP 25
Jobs
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
Genetic therapies offer new hope against incurable brain diseases
What’s so special about the human brain? A graphical guide
Gene therapy’s comeback: how scientists are trying to make it safer
Revealed: Why the fatal Huntington’s gene takes so long to cause harm
Failure of genetic therapies for Huntington’s devastates community
Subjects
Brain
Neurodegeneration
Medical research
Gene therapy
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited