China's largest chipmaker testing first homegrown immersion DUV litho tool — SMIC takes significant step on road to wafer fab equipment self-sufficiency | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Tech Industry
China-based firm delivers its first chipmaking tool that stamps nanoscale chip designs onto wafers
Semiconductors
China bets on DUV as EUV blockade reshapes chipmaking — but it won't dethrone ASML's advanced lithography, for now
SSDs
China's YMTC moves to break free of U.S. sanctions by building production line with homegrown tools
Semiconductors
'Beyond EUV' chipmaking tech pushes Soft X-Ray lithography closer to challenging Hyper-NA EUV
Semiconductors
ASML and SK hynix assemble industry-first 'commercial' High-NA EUV system at fab in South Korea
Semiconductors
Zombie fabs plague China's chipmaking ambitions, failures burning tens of billions of dollars
Semiconductors
TSMC reportedly cuts Chinese chipmaking tools from 2nm fabs as suppliers face scrutiny due to emerging new US restrictions
Artificial Intelligence
China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks
Semiconductors
China to pivot $50 billion chip fund to fighting U.S. squeeze
Semiconductors
Intel CFO confirms that 14A will be more expensive to use than 18A
Semiconductors
Top semiconductor toolmaker launches talent competition in China
Semiconductors
Japanese chipmaker Rapidus begins test production of 2nm circuits — company commits to single-wafer processing ahead of 2027 mass production target
Semiconductors
China could be the world's top semiconductor foundry hub by 2030
Semiconductors
AI boom drives explosive demand for leading-edge process nodes
Semiconductors
China semiconductor 'megamerger' strategy reportedly stalling
Tech Industry
Manufacturing
Semiconductors
China's largest chipmaker testing first homegrown immersion DUV litho tool — SMIC takes significant step on road to wafer fab equipment self-sufficiency
News
By
Anton Shilov
published
17 September 2025
28nm today, 7nm tomorrow?
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: SMIC)
SMIC, the largest foundry in China, is test-driving one of China's first domestic immersion DUV lithography tools, reports Financial Times. The system was developed by Shanghai Yuliangsheng Technology Co., which is linked to Huawei's SiCarrier, and is believed to be a significant part of China's effort to become self-sufficient in wafer fab equipment.SMIC's test platform from Yuliangsheng involves a DUV machine that uses immersion lithography and is reportedly designed for 28nm-class fabrication technologies, though it could be used for 7nm or even 5nm production nodes by applying multipatterning. The Yuliangsheng tool is mostly made from components sourced within China, although some parts are still imported. The company is actively working to localize the entire supply chain. Once that is achieved (though it is unclear when), it would allow China to operate outside the influence of the U.S. or European export policies in this segment of chip production.If the description of the tool by Financial Times is accurate, then the Yuliangsheng immersion DUV system currently being tested by SMIC resembles ASML's Twinscan NXT:1950i from 2008, which was designed for 32nm-class process technology in one exposure. The unit featured optics with 1.35 numerical aperture, a 2.5nm overlay, a 38nm resolution, and could be used for making chips on a 22nm-class fabrication node. While theoretically the NXT:1950i could be used to make chips on 7nm and 5nm-class nodes, ASML has developed NXT:2000i for such fabrication technologies, which is generations ahead of the NXT:1950i.
You may like
China-based firm delivers its first chipmaking tool that stamps nanoscale chip designs onto wafers
China bets on DUV as EUV blockade reshapes chipmaking — but it won't dethrone ASML's advanced lithography, for now
China's YMTC moves to break free of U.S. sanctions by building production line with homegrown tools
It is unclear whether the Yuliangsheng tool is being tested within SMIC's production flow (i.e., they are producing actual chips or patterns) or if the company is just beginning to test the scanner and has merely reached first light on the wafer or first patterning milestones (a more likely scenario). If it is the latter, then the scanner is years away from mass-producing actual chips. Indeed, the goal is reportedly to integrate domestic immersion DUV lithography machines into production lines starting in 2027, after their qualification. Before that, SMIC will continue to rely on tools from ASML.It should be noted that while SMIC (and probably Yuliangsheng) believes that it is possible to build chips on 7nm and 5nm-class process technologies on the same tools that are used for 28nm-class production nodes, it remains to be seen whether this is possible without a dramatic improvement of a 28nm-class tool when it comes to overlay performance, precision, control, and complexity. Essentially, after the existing tool matures and gets inserted into SMIC's 28nm flow in 2027, it will take Yuliangsheng years to jump to 16nm and then to 7nm fabrication nodes with a significantly redesigned scanner, so do not expect SMIC's sub-10nm fabrication processes on domestic lithography systems earlier than in 2030.The tool is codenamed 'Mount Everest,' after the world's tallest mountain, perhaps highlighting the importance of the project. Interestingly, but SiCarrier also tends to call its WFE projects after mountains, which perhaps proves that SiCarrier and Shanghai Yuliangsheng Technology Co. are not only affiliated (SiCarrier is reportedly an investor of Yuliangsheng), but likely belong to the same group working on the same goal. It is noteworthy that Shanghai Yuliangsheng Technology Co. is already known to the U.S. Department of Commerce, which put it into its Entity List in late 2024.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Huawei
See all comments (0)
Anton ShilovSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterAnton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom’s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends.
Read more
China-based firm delivers its first chipmaking tool that stamps nanoscale chip designs onto wafers
China bets on DUV as EUV blockade reshapes chipmaking — but it won't dethrone ASML's advanced lithography, for now
China's YMTC moves to break free of U.S. sanctions by building production line with homegrown tools
'Beyond EUV' chipmaking tech pushes Soft X-Ray lithography closer to challenging Hyper-NA EUV
ASML and SK hynix assemble industry-first 'commercial' High-NA EUV system at fab in South Korea
Zombie fabs plague China's chipmaking ambitions, failures burning tens of billions of dollars
Latest in Semiconductors
MediaTek reportedly mulling US chip production
China bets on DUV as EUV blockade reshapes chipmaking — but it won't dethrone ASML's advanced lithography, for now
Why packaging is a huge part of Nvidia's $5B Intel deal — Foveros could speed up market delivery
Huawei reveals long-range Ascend chip roadmap
Exploring the RTX Pro 6000D, Nvidia's China-only GPU, which is now banned from sale
'Beyond EUV' chipmaking tech pushes Soft X-Ray lithography closer to challenging Hyper-NA EUV
Latest in News
Nvidia's $100 billion investment in OpenAI raises big antitrust concerns
AI buildouts need $2 trillion in annual revenue to sustain growth, but massive cash shortfall looms
The end of EU-imposed cookie consent pop-ups could be nigh
Intel drops day zero game driver support for chips released last year
Nvidia promises its $100 billion OpenAI deal won't impact GPU supply
Lenovo cancels some Legion Go 2 pre-orders, delays others due to massive demand
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.