Gosplan - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
Toggle History subsection
1.1
Economic background
1.2
Establishment
1.3
Emergence
1.4
Five-year plan
2
Method of material balances
3
Directors of Gosplan
4
See also
5
References
6
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Gosplan
30 languages
العربيةAsturianuCatalàDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEuskaraفارسیFrançais한국어ՀայերենBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიMagyarNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSuomiSvenskaTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Soviet government agency responsible for economic planning
State Planning Committee of the USSR(Gosplan)Gosudarstvenny komitet po planirovaniyuГосударственный комитет по планированиюSoviet Gosplan headquarters in Moscow(later Russian State Duma building)State committee overviewFormed22 February 1921 (1921-02-22)Preceding State committeeRSFSR State Planning CommitteeDissolved1 April 1991JurisdictionGovernment of the Soviet UnionHeadquartersMoscow, RSFSR55°45′27″N 37°36′55″E﻿ / ﻿55.75750°N 37.61528°E﻿ / 55.75750; 37.61528Parent departmentCouncil of MinistersChild State committeeCentral Statistical Directorate
The State Planning Committee, commonly known as Gosplan (Russian: Госплан [ɡosˈpɫan]),[1] was the agency responsible for central economic planning in the Soviet Union. Established in 1921 and remaining in existence until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Gosplan had as its main task the creation and administration of a series of five-year plans governing the economy of the USSR.
History[edit]
Economic background[edit]
The time of the October Revolution and the Russian Civil War which followed was a period of virtual economic collapse. Production and distribution of necessary commodities were severely tested as factories were shuttered and major cities such as Petrograd (now Saint Petersburg) were depopulated, with urban residents returning to the countryside to claim a place in land redistribution and in order to avoid the unemployment, lack of food, and lack of fuel which had become endemic. By 1919 the country was in hyperinflation, further pushing the struggling economic system of Soviet Russia towards total collapse.
An ad hoc system remembered to history as military communism emerged. The Soviet government's Council of Workers' and Peasants' Defense rushed from economic bottleneck to economic bottleneck in a frenzied effort to sustain what remained of Russian industry on behalf of the Red Army, locked in a life or death struggle with the anti-Bolshevik White movement, backed by the foreign military intervention of Great Britain, France, Japan, the United States, and other countries. In the countryside food requisitions, often backed by brute force, took place under the nominal auspices of the People's Commissariat of Agriculture.
In the midst of such chaos the mere idea of long-term economic planning remained a utopian dream during these first years of existence of Soviet Russia. It was not until the Civil War had drawn to a successful conclusion for the Bolsheviks in 1920 that serious attention was paid to the question of systematic planning for the Soviet economy. In March 1920 the Council of Workers' and Peasants' Defense was given a new name – the Council of Labor and Defense (STO) – and a broader planning mission.[2]
STO was established as a commission of the Council of People's Commissars (Sovnarkom), to be headed by the leading People's Commissars themselves, a representative of the Russian trade unions, and the chief of the Central Statistical Agency.[3] STO was directed to establish a single economic plan for Soviet Russia and to direct the work of the individual People's Commissariats toward this plan's fulfillment, so that "for the first time the RSFSR had a general planning organ with clearly defined functions", as historian E. H. Carr has observed.[3]
The State Committee for Planning, commonly known as "Gosplan", was launched as a permanent advisory subcommittee of STO, assigned with the task of conducting detailed economic investigations and providing expert recommendations to the decision-making STO.[4]
Establishment[edit]
Gleb Krzhizhanovsky, first head of Gosplan, as he appeared on a 1972 Soviet postage stamp
Gosplan was formally established by a Sovnarkom decree, dated 22 February 1921.[5] Ironically, the decree was passed on the same day that an article by Soviet leader V. I. Lenin was published in Pravda criticizing advocates of a "single economic plan" for their "idle talk" and "boring pedantry" and arguing that the GOELRO plan for national electrification was the "one serious work on the question of the single economic plan".[5] Other members of Sovnarkom were more optimistic, however, and Lenin sustained a defeat on the establishment of another planning entity, Gosplan.[5] As a compromise measure uniting the mission of the two planning entities, head of GOELRO Gleb Krzhizhanovsky was tapped to head Gosplan.[5]
Initially Gosplan had an advisory function,[4] with its entire staff consisting of just 34 people at the time of its April 1921 launch.[6] These were selected on the basis of academic expertise in specialized aspects of industry; just 7 were members of the Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks).[6] With the ongoing turn to a market-based system of production as part of the New Economic Policy (NEP), very real constraints existed on the possible extent of central planning during the initial phase of Gosplan's institutional life.
Gosplan quickly became a centre point for central planning and expanded investment in heavy industry, with Leon Trotsky one of the leading political patrons of the agency.[7] In June 1922 a new decree further expanded Gosplan's purview, with the agency directed to compose both "long-term" and "immediate" plans of production.[8] Gosplan was to be consulted regarding proposed economic and financial decrees submitted to the Council of People's Commissars by the various economic People's Commissariats.[8] An administrative rivalry ensued between Gosplan and the People's Commissariat of Finance (Narkomfin), the latter the agency most in favor of currency stabilization and expansion of the general economy through the regulated market.[8]
Gosplan had no power of compulsion in this early interval, but was forced to work through Sovnarkom, STO, or the People's Commissariats to have its suggestions implemented by decree.[9] The agency's economic calculations and policy suggestions remained largely abstract throughout the first half of the 1920s, with Gosplan's desires and actual policy largely disjointed.[9]
Emergence[edit]
Tension continued between Narkomfin and Gosplan throughout the NEP period, with Narkomfin advocating for increased grain exports as a means of bolstering the currency by balancing imports and exports while simultaneously bolstering peasant prosperity, while Gosplan emerged as the chief advocate of cheap food and planned development of industry.[10]
During 1925 Gosplan started creating annual economic plans, known as "control numbers" (контрольные цифры).
Its work was coordinated with the USSR Central Statistical Directorate, the People's Commissariat of Finance, and the Supreme Soviet of the National Economy (VSNKh), and later with the State Bank (Gosbank) and State Supply Committee (Gossnab).
Five-year plan[edit]
Gosplan organization chart
With the introduction of five-year plans in 1928, Gosplan became responsible for their creation and supervision according to the objectives declared by the All-Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks).
During 1930 the Statistical Directorate was merged into Gosplan, and on 3 February 1931 Gosplan was resubordinated to the Sovnarkom.
During May 1955 Gosplan was divided into two commissions: the USSR Council of Ministers State Commission for Advanced Planning and the USSR Council of Ministers Economic Commission on Current Planning. These were, respectively, tasked with predictive and immediate planning. The work of the latter was based on the five-year plans delivered by Gosplan, with Gosplan planning 10–15 years ahead.
Gosplan was headquartered at the building now occupied by the State Duma, in Moscow.
Method of material balances[edit]
Part of a series onSoviet economics
Organizations
STO
Gosplan
Gossnab
Gosbank
Supreme Soviet of the National Economy
Economic ministries
Business group types
Combine
Production association
Scientific production association
Planning methods
Material balances
Linear optimization
Five-year plans
Statistics
Material Product System
Net material product
Related topics
Hyperinflation in early Soviet Russia
Cybernetics
Eastern bloc
Economic planning
Marxism–Leninism
Socialism
State capitalism
Business portalvte
The introduction of the first five-year plan in 1928 led to a re-examination of the roles of Gosplan and VSNKh, the supreme state organization for management of the economy at this time. This re-examination of roles was required because VSNKh itself also had responsibility for planning through the Industrial Planning Commission (Promplan). Re-examination of roles was also required as the introduction of the first five-year plan meant that Gosplan's role was no longer one of prognosis and drafting of "control figures" since plans had now become orders to act.
In order to ensure the success of the plan it was necessary to ensure that inputs from one part of the economy matched outputs from another part of the economy. Gosplan achieved this using a methodology called the system of "material balances". For a plan period (in detail for one year and in lesser detail for a five-year plan) Gosplan drew up a balance sheet in terms of units of material (i.e. money was not used as part of the accounting process).
The first step in the process was to assess how much steel, cement, wool cloth, etc. would be available for the next year. This calculation was based on the following formula: production minus exports plus imports plus or minus changes in stocks.
The planning system as such was fairly simple. Gosplan calculated the sum of the country's resources and facilities, established priorities for their use, and handed down output targets and supply allocations to the various economic ministries and through them to every branch and enterprise in the entire economy. To be sure, the system had its limitations, including the absence of meaningful price and cost information and the difficulty of extending planning to all the special commodities and enterprises in a modern economy. More serious difficulties stemmed from the attitudes and priorities built into the Stalinist planning system. "From the start," write the Soviet economists Nikolai Shmelev and Vladimir Popov, "the administrative system was distinguished by economic romanticism, profound economic illiteracy, and incredible exaggeration of the real effect that the 'administrative factor' had on economic processes and on the motivations of the public." — Robert V. Daniels[11]
The second step was to identify where there were mismatches between levels of outputs of one material that was used as an input in another part of the economy i.e. where there were differences between supply and demand within the economy. If mismatches between supply and demand were identified then, for the one-year plan, utilization plans for a particular input material could be cut or alternatively effort was made to increase supply. For the five-year plan mismatches between supply and demand could be mitigated by modifying long-term plans to increase productive capacity.
Wages and pensions were leveled upwards, and skilled and manual work began to exceed much mental and professional work in remuneration. The Italian economic historian Rita Di Leo found "a compression of differentials" and a bias for so-called "productive" work (i.e., yielding measurable physical output) over "unproductive" work (services, trade, etc.). "Such a wage policy calls into question the modernization of society, its efficiency, its competitiveness." — Robert V. Daniels[11]
Using this method any changes in the plan to remove mismatches between inputs and outputs would result in hundreds, even thousands, of changes to material balances. This meant that, without the aid of information technology, Gosplan could only deal with the economy in very general terms.
Ideological bias resulted in unrealistic plans that were impossible to execute. Pressure to execute them anyway resulted in widespread falsification of statistics on all levels of reporting. Falsified plan realization feedback further resulted in Gosplan preparing plans even more detached from reality:
The second economy engulfed a significant fraction of the GDP. Not only individuals but state enterprises as well engaged in these practices, often out of necessity, when extra-legal influence or illegal operations appeared to be the only way to fulfill the demands of the plan. Claims of plan fulfillment that were passed up the hierarchy became as impossible to believe as the targets in the next plan. — Robert V. Daniels[11]
Directors of Gosplan[edit]
Name
Dates
Premier(s) served
Began office
Ended office
State Planning Commission
Gleb Krzhizhanovsky (1st term)
13 August 1921
11 December 1923
Vladimir Lenin
Alexander Tsuryupa
11 December 1923
18 November 1925
Vladimir Lenin, Alexey Rykov
Gleb Krzhizhanovsky (2nd term)
18 November 1925
10 November 1930
Alexey Rykov
Valerian Kuibyshev
10 November 1930
25 April 1934
Vyacheslav Molotov
Valery Mezhlauk (1st term)
25 April 1934
25 February 1937
Vyacheslav Molotov
Gennady Smirnov
25 February 1937
17 October 1937
Vyacheslav Molotov
Valery Mezhlauk (2nd term)
17 October 1937
1 December 1937
Vyacheslav Molotov
Nikolai Voznesensky (1st term)
19 January 1938
10 March 1941
Vyacheslav Molotov
Maksim Saburov (1st term)
10 March 1941
8 December 1942
Joseph Stalin
Nikolai Voznesensky (2nd term)
8 December 1942
9 January 1948
Joseph Stalin
State Planning Committee
Nikolai Voznesensky
9 January 1948
5 March 1949
Joseph Stalin
Maksim Saburov (2nd term)
5 March 1949
5 March 1953
Joseph Stalin
Grigory Kosyachenko
5 March 1953
29 June 1953
Georgy Malenkov
Maksim Saburov (3rd term)
29 June 1953
25 May 1955
Georgy Malenkov
State Economic Commission for Advanced Planning
Nikolai Baibakov (1st term)
25 May 1955
3 May 1957
Nikolai Bulganin
Joseph Kuzmin
3 May 1957
10 May 1957
Nikolai Bulganin
State Economic Commission for Current Planning
Maksim Saburov
25 May 1955
25 December 1956
Nikolai Bulganin
Mikhail Pervukhin
25 December 1956
10 May 1957
Nikolai Bulganin
State Planning Committee
Joseph Kuzmin
10 May 1957
20 March 1959
Nikolai Bulganin, Nikita Khrushchev
Alexei Kosygin
20 March 1959
4 May 1960
Nikita Khrushchev
Vladimir Novikov
4 May 1960
17 July 1962
Nikita Khrushchev
Veniamin Dymshits
17 July 1962
24 November 1962
Nikita Khrushchev
Pyotr Lomako
24 November 1962
2 October 1965
Nikita Khrushchev, Alexei Kosygin
Nikolai Baibakov (2nd term)
2 October 1965
14 October 1985
Alexei Kosygin, Nikolai Tikhonov, Nikolai Ryzhkov
Nikolai Talyzin
14 October 1985
5 February 1988
Nikolai Ryzhkov
Yuri Maslyukov
5 February 1988
1 April 1991
Nikolai Ryzhkov, Valentin Pavlov
See also[edit]
Hyperinflation in early Soviet Russia
Planned economy
Economic calculation problem
References[edit]
^ The word "Gosplan" is an abbreviation of Gosudarstvenniy Komitet po Planirovaniyu (Государственный комитет по планированию, "State Committee for Planning".)
^ Alec Nove, An Economic History of the USSR. New Edition. London: Penguin Books, 1989; p. 61.
^ a b E. H. Carr, A History of Soviet Russia: The Bolshevik Revolution, 1917–1923: Volume 2. London: Macmillan, 1952; p. 375.
^ a b Maurice Dobb, Russian Economic Development Since the Revolution. New York: E. P. Dutton, 1928; p. 241; fn. 1.
^ a b c d Carr, A History of Soviet Russia, vol. 2, p. 376.
^ a b Carr, A History of Soviet Russia, vol. 2, p. 377.
^ Carr, Edward Hallett. A History Of Soviet Russia. p. 379.
^ a b c Carr, A History of Soviet Russia, vol. 2, p. 379.
^ a b Carr, A History of Soviet Russia, vol. 2, p. 381.
^ Carr, The Interregnum, pp. 13–14.
^ a b c Robert V. Daniels, The End of Communist Revolution. 1993.
External links[edit]
Bulletin Gosplana (Gosplan Bulletin). Archived 13 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Moscow: Gosplan, 1923.
Planovoe khozaistvo (Planned Economy). Archived 13 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Moscow: Gosplan, 1924.
Planovoe khozaistvo (Planned Economy). Archived 13 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Moscow: Gosplan, 1925.
vteAll-Union Government of the Soviet UnionAll-Union
President and Vice President of the Soviet Union
list
Presidential Council
Federation Council
State Council
Security Council
Premiers
Ministries(list)
Agricultural Products Procurement
Agriculture and Food
Installation and Special Construction Works
Armament
Agricultural Machine Building
Aviation Industry
Building Materials Industry
Chemical Industry
Chemical and Oil Machinery Building
Civil Aviation
Coal Industry
Communications
Communication Equipment Industry
Construction
Construction of Fuel Industry
Construction of Heavy Industry
Construction of Oil and Gas Industries
Construction of Petrochemical Machinery
Construction of Power Plants
Construction and Road-Machine Building
Construction of Tool-Machines
Cotton
Culture
Defense
Defense Industry
Economy
Education
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Power and Electrification
Electronics Industry
Electrotechnical Industry
Energy and Electrification
Environmental Protection
Foreign Affairs
Ferrous Metallurgy
Finance
Fishing Industry
Foreign Economic Relations
Forestry
Fruits and Vegetables
Gas Industry
General Machine-Building
Geology
Grain Products
Health
Housing and Architecture
Heavy Machine Building
Heavy and Transport Machines Construction
Higher Education
Industrial Construction
Installation and Special Construction Work
Instrument-Making, Automation and Control Systems
Internal Affairs
Iron and Steel
Justice
Light Industry
Land Reclamation and Water Resources
Machine Building
Machine Building for Animal Husbandry and Fodder Products
Machine Building for Light and Food Industry
Machine Tool and Tool Building Industry
Machinery for Stock Raising and Feeding
Manufacture of Communication Media
Maritime Fleet
Meat and Dairy Industry
Medical Industry
Medical and Microbiologiacal Industry
Medium Machine-Building
Mineral Fertilizer Production
Metallurgy
Non-Ferrous Metallurgy
Nuclear Power Industry
Oil Industry
Oil and Gas Industry
Oil Processing and Petrochemical Industry
Pulp and Paper Industry
Radio Industry
Railways
Rubber Industry
Shipbuilding
State Control
State Farms
State Security
Technical Cultivation
Textile Industry
Timber Industry
Timber, Paper and Wood Processing Industry
Tool and Tool Building Industry
Internal Trade
Tractors and Agricultural Machines
Trade
Transport Construction
Urban Construction
Regional ministries
Construction in the Eastern Regions
Construction in the Far East and Transbaikal Regions
Construction in the Northern and Western Regions
Construction in the Southern Regions
Construction in the Urals and West Siberian Regions
State Committeesand commissions
Allocation
Building Materials
Cinematography
Construction
Defense
State Defense
Defense Technology
Flight Safety
Fuel Industry
Labour and Social Issues
Military-Industrial
People's Control
Prices
Publishing
Metallurgy
State of Emergency
Science and Technology
Sports
Standards and Product Quality Management
State Planning
State Security
Chairmen
Statistics
Television and Radio
Timber and Paper Industry
Transport Construction
Authority control databases InternationalVIAFNationalUnited StatesIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gosplan&oldid=1292144197"
Categories: Economy of the Soviet UnionState Committees of the Soviet UnionEconomic planning1921 establishments in Russia1922 establishments in Russia1991 disestablishments in the Soviet UnionGosplanSubordinate bodies of the Soviet governmentHidden categories: Articles containing Russian-language textArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from August 2021Infobox mapframe without OSM relation ID on WikidataPages using gadget WikiMiniAtlasPages with Russian IPAWebarchive template wayback linksPages using the Kartographer extension
This page was last edited on 25 May 2025, at 12:20 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Gosplan
30 languages
Add topic