Stearns & Foster Mattress Review | Reasons to Buy/NOT Buy (2023) - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Mattress Review 2025: Experts Test Handcrafted Comfort, Available Online or In-Store If you're looking for a decent supportive hybrid mattress and aren't on a strict budget, the Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Mattress might be a great option for you.
Written by
JD Christison
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Feb 3, 2025
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$3,599 at Stearns & Foster
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$3599
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$3,599 at Stearns & Foster
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on February 2, 2025 at 10:46 PM PST
Our Experts
Written by
JD Christison
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 8.0 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Score Breakdown
Pros and Cons
Pros
Hybrid construction is supportive for all body types
The pillow top feel provides perfect balance of neutral comfort
Firmness options accommodate all sleeper types
Luxurious design is perfect for a more upscale bedroom setup
Cons
Not for those who want more of a simple, all-foam mattress
Not for sleepers who want a dense memory foam bed
Not for those who are on a strict budget
Table of Contents
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Mattress Review 2025: Experts Test Handcrafted Comfort, Available Online or In-Store
First impressions of the Lux Estate mattress
Video: Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress review
Stearns & Foster mattress firmness and feel
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress construction
Lux Estate mattress performance
Who is the Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress best for?
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress pricing
Trial, shipping and warranty
How does Stearns & Foster Lux Estate compare to other mattresses?
The final verdict
Stearns & Foster mattress FAQs
Buying a mattress isn't exactly a small matter, and if you prefer to test a mattress in a local shop before purchasing, Stearns & Foster mattresses can be a great option -- you can simply use the company's Find a Retailer tool. When our team first tested a mattress by this brand, we appreciated the hand-stitched embroidery, the durable support system and the cozy pillow top. That particular mattress is now long gone, so this year we decided to see what's new with Stearns & Foster. After I reached out, the company kindly sent us the medium pillow-top version of the Lux Estate, and I'm happy to report that quality-wise, not much has changed. This is one of the nicest and most luxurious-looking beds we've received in recent years. And when it comes to how the bed feels, it gets better. In this review, I'll cover everything you should know about this bed, including who our team thinks it's best for.First impressions of the Lux Estate mattress
Dillon Payne/CNETThe Stearns & Foster Lux Estate is white-glove delivered for free. The bed showed up full-sized at our office with a delivery team that was ready to set it up and take away our old bed. Being online mattress reviewers, we didn't quite need all the amenities included in the delivery process and opted to set it up ourselves. All we did was rip off the plastic, place it on our frame and the bed was ready for testing.Upon our initial tests, it became clear that this is a generally accommodating and comfortable pillow-top mattress. It just feels like a fancy hotel bed or something that you'd find in an upscale Airbnb. The coils on the bottom provide all body types with plenty of support, while the pillow top offers a nice amount of comfort and cushion. This is the type of mattress that you look forward to lying down on after a long day.Video: Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress reviewWatch me review the Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress in this video review.Stearns & Foster mattress firmness and feelWhat does the Lux Estate mattress feel like?
Dillon Payne/CNETAs it's a more luxurious style of pillow-top mattress, this bed has a generally comfortable pillow-top feel. It offers a neutral balance of comfort with equal support and pressure relief. It doesn't feel like a dense memory foam mattress, and it's not spongy or ultra-springy like a latex foam bed. It has more of a neutral feel that's also premium and cozy.    I'd compare the feel of the Stearns & Foster Lux Estate to other more luxurious pillow-top beds like the Saatva Classic or even The WinkBed mattress. These are the types of pillow-top beds that practically anyone can sleep on because they're so accommodating. Getting a bed with a neutral style of mattress feel is always a safe way to go, especially if you're unsure what feel you'd prefer your next bed to have. If you really want to see how this bed feels for yourself before you buy it, you can check it out at your local retailer.  How firm is the Lux Estate mattress?
Jon Gomez/CNETThis bed is available in a variety of firmness and comfort choices. Over at CNET Home, We have the PT Medium model and would place it between a medium and a medium-firm on our scale. This firmness ranking makes the mattress a suitable choice for all sleeper types, with a slight support advantage for primary back and stomach sleepers. Firmness is a subjective thing. We rank how firm a bed is based on the size of an average person, but you could find the bed to have a different firmness if you're much heavier or even on the more petite side. Luckily, you have two other firmness renditions of the bed available with a pillow top. There's also a standard version of the mattress, which is a bit firmer, but also more affordable -- these more luxurious beds can cost a pretty penny.Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress construction
Dillon Payne/CNETThis is a premium pillow top mattress is around 14.5 inches thick and composed of the following materials:1. On the bottom, you've got a thin layer of base foam to serve as the starting point for the mattress.2. Then you've got the bed's main support system of individually wrapped coils. These are even reinforced along the edges of the bed to provide sleepers with a sturdy perimeter.3. Next, you've got a couple more responsive transition foams. These act as buffers between the support and comfort layers of the mattress.4. Above that, you've got one of the bed's primary comfort layers, which is a memory foam. Interestingly enough, the brand actually collaborated with Tempur-Pedic to produce this one-of-a-kind foam, which gives the bed ample pressure relief and cushion. 5. On top, the bed is wrapped up in a stretch-knit tencel cover with some additional comfort elements quilted in. It's quite soft, breathable and balances everything out with neutral, accommodating comfort.
Dillon Payne/CNETLux Estate mattress performanceMotion isolationGood motion isolation is important if you or your partner are easily woken up by the slightest movements at night. Personally, I tend to toss and turn, which can sometimes jostle my fiancé out of her peaceful slumber. In this case, you'll want a bed that can isolate that motion, so it doesn't transfer to the other side as much. The Lux Estate performs fine in this regard. There's no excessive amount of motion that reverberates through the bed, at least based on our tests. If motion isolation is a top priority for your next mattress search, the two of you might have better luck with a memory foam bed -- those are the best for this issue. Still, the Lux Estate should deaden a good amount of motion for most couples.Edge-to-edge supportSince the coils that run along the edges of this mattress are designed to be extra-durable and reinforced, the Lux Estate from Stearns & Foster has superb edge support. When I applied my full weight to the edges, I observed no sagging at all and felt fully supported by the bed's perimeter -- which is saying something, I'm a bigger dude. If your partner likes to hog the sleeping surface and you're forced to hug the edges of this bed at night, you shouldn't have any issues with falling off the Lux Estate.
Dillon Payne/CNETTemperatureThough the stretch-knit tencel cover on the Lux Estate is designed to be more breathable than your average mattress cover, we'd still classify it as a temperature-neutral sleeping mattress. To us, this isn't an active-cooling bed, but it also shouldn't warm up on you or your partner excessively. The thing to remember about temperature regulation is that it usually depends on other exterior factors rather than the bed itself. If cooling is a concern for you or your partner, you can always check out our Best Cooling Mattress for Hot Sleepers list. DurabilityThis is a premium pillow-top mattress that's handcrafted in the US, so it should be a durable bed that'll likely last your relationship for many years to come. The average lifespan for a bed is around seven to 10 years, but I could see this bed easily surpassing that time frame given its high-quality construction. That said, to get the most out of your bed long-term, I always recommend rotating it once every six months. That way, you can avoid lumps in certain areas and the sleeping surface will remain evenly balanced.    Who is the Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress best for?
Dillon Payne/CNETI highly doubt you'd find this mattress uncomfortable if you lie down on it in your local Mattress Firm, but it still might be the bed of everyone's dreams. Here's who we think the Lux Estate is best for.Sleeping positionI think combination sleepers who like to rotate between all sleeping positions throughout the course of a night will enjoy this option the most. The bed's medium to medium-firm profile presents sleepers with equal parts pressure relief and support, making it versatile enough to work best for this preference.If you're a back or stomach sleeper who prefers something a bit firmer, you'll likely get even more out of it. Based on our observations, these sleepers tend to prefer firmer beds since they offer more support. If you're a side sleeper, I highly recommend getting the PT Soft version, since it will offer the most amount of pressure relief for your shoulders and hips at night.Body typeThis is a durable hybrid bed that's designed to withstand a lot of pressure from night to night. For this reason alone, the Lux Estate should be supportive enough to handle all body types, including much heavier people. If you're interested in checking out other supportive options, feel free to peruse our list of best beds for heavy people. Stearns & Foster Lux Estate mattress pricing undefined
Size Measurements (inches)PriceTwin Long 38x80 inches$3,499Queen 60x80 inches$3,599King 76x80 inches$4,199Split King 76x80 inches$6,998Cal King 72x84 inches$4,199Split Cal King 72x84 inches$6,998
There's no getting around it, this bed is expensive. However, you would be investing in a more premium, high-class style of pillow-top mattress, and the pricing certainly reflects that. As a brand, Stearns & Foster likes to run nice discounts and promotions on its beds, usually around major holidays. Keep in mind, the standard version is more affordable.   Trial, shipping and warranty
Jon Gomez/CNETStearns & Foster backs its beds with a standard policy set. Its beds ship to you with complimentary white-glove delivery, and once a bed is in your possession, you get a 90-night trial period to try it at home risk-free. If you happen not to like it within that time frame, you can return it, but a small fee will be deducted from your refund. This is due to the costs incurred shipping the mattress to you with that free delivery service. If you decide to keep it, you're backed by a 10-year warranty. Just be sure to use the right foundation for the bed. Otherwise, you could void your bed's warranty.How does Stearns & Foster Lux Estate compare to other mattresses? Stearns & Foster vs. Saatva ClassicThese are two popular choices in the realm of luxurious online beds. Both have a similar traditional pillow-top feel and arrive at your home with complimentary white-glove delivery. In terms of differences, the Saatva Classic is available in three firmness options, while the Lux Estate from Stearns & Foster technically has four. However the Saatva Classic has a dual-coil construction, and a lumbar support feature. It's also considerably more affordable after a discount for a queen size. Saatva Classic
$2,099 at Saatva Classic
Stearns & Foster vs. The WinkBedAnother comparable bed to the Lux Estate would probably be the WinkBed. It's another popular pillow-top bed with a more luxurious aesthetic. Unlike the Lux Estate, the WinkBed mattress ships to you for completely free in a box. You also get a 120-night trial to test it out at home, free returns within that time frame, and a lifetime warranty if you decide to keep it. Both options are available in four firmness options, and share a similar type of premium mattress feel. If you're trying to save the most amount of money on your next pillow top bed, though, the WinkBed is the clear winner in this department. WinkBed
See at WinkBed
The final verdictAfter all these years, Stearns & Foster continues to impress me. I think the Lux Estate is a great choice for those in the market for a luxurious pillow-top bed with a traditional feel that's available in a bunch of firmness and comfort options. If you want a mattress that you can try out in a store before you buy, and which shows up with free white-glove delivery, not many options can top it -- just so long as you're aware of the price tag.You might like the Lux Estate mattress if:You want a supportive hybrid mattressYou want a traditional pillow-top feelYou want a bed that's available in a few firmnessesYou don't mind spending up for a more luxurious bedYou might not like the Lux Estate mattress if:You're looking for an all-foam mattressYou prefer the feel of a dense memory foam mattressYou're searching for an active-cooling bedYou're on a tight budgetStearns & Foster mattress FAQs
How thick is the Lux Estate mattress?
This bed is around 14.5 inches thick, which is a little thicker than your average mattress found online. I often recommend investing in deep pocket sheets if your bed is over 15 inches thick. Luckily, this bed falls just shy of that mark, so you should be completely fine using a normal sheet set on this option.
Show more
Is Stearns & Foster a luxury brand?
This brand has been a mainstay in the luxury mattress space for decades. Its beds are all handcrafted in the US and composed of high-quality comfort materials. When it comes to luxurious mattresses, it doesn’t get much better than Stearns & Foster.
Show more
How long does the Lux Estate mattress last?
Being a well-made pillow-top mattress, the Stearns & Foster Lux Estate should last you for at least the next seven to 10 years, if not much longer. Hybrid beds are often thought to last longer than all-foam beds since steel coils last longer support-wise over time. Given its quality construction, I wouldn’t be surprised if this bed endured past the 10-year period -- especially if you regularly rotate the mattress.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.