Best Gifts Under $300 for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechMobile Headphones
Best Gifts Under $300 for 2025
Looking for a gift that delivers premium quality without totally going overboard? Our gifting experts curated a selection of the best gifts under $300. Every item on this list has been handpicked and thoroughly tested by CNET’s experts.
Article updated on Jun 2, 2025
David Carnoy Executive Editor / Reviews Executive Editor David Carnoy has been a leading member of CNET's Reviews team since 2000. He covers the gamut of gadgets and is a notable reviewer of mobile accessories and portable audio products, including headphones and speakers. He's also an e-reader and e-publishing expert as well as the author of the novels Knife Music, The Big Exit and Lucidity. All the titles are available as Kindle, iBooks, Kobo e-books and audiobooks. Expertise Headphones, Bluetooth speakers, mobile accessories, Apple, Sony, Bose, e-readers, Amazon, glasses, ski gear, iPhone cases, gaming accessories, sports tech, portable audio, interviews, audiophile gear, PC speakers Credentials Maggie Award for Best Regularly Featured Web Column/Consumer
See full bio
Written by David Carnoy
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Best audio gifts under $300
Speakers
Soundcore by Anker Boom 2 Plus I consider the smaller Boom 2 the best value among current Soundcore by Anker Bluetooth speakers because it delivers very strong sound for a speaker that costs a little more than $100. But the larger and more expensive Boom 2 Plus is a better-sounding speaker that plays louder and produces a bigger sound with more bass. While it costs around $250, the key thing about it is that it competes well with boom box speakers from JBL and Sony which cost upwards of $400.This speaker has dual 50-watt woofers and dual 20-watt tweeters, Anker says, and charges via USB-C, which is nice. There is also a charge-out option to charge your devices and the Boom 2 Plus is rated for up to 20 hours of playback time at moderate volume levels. The speaker has both a handle and removable strap to make it easy to carry around and is IPX7 waterproof. It also floats should you drop it in a body of water and has a customizable light show option. Full Review.
$210 at Amazon
$250 at Soundcore
$250 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Headphones
Shokz OpenRun Pro 2 The problem with bone-conduction headphones has always been that they just don't sound all that good. That is unless you plug up your ears, which defeats the safety benefit of their open-ear design and is why they're so popular with runners and bikers. Well, that just changed. Shokz has finally cracked the code on bone-conduction sound quality with a novel dual-driver design in its new flagship OpenRun Pro 2 headphones ($180).With the OpenRun Pro 2, Shokz has solved the bass deficiency issue by adding a second, more traditional speaker driver that's tasked with firing bass frequencies toward your open ears. Shokz employed that same micro-speaker technology (it calls it "air conduction") in its first non-bone-conduction headphones, the OpenFit ($140) and Open Fit Air ($120) true-wireless earbuds. Read our Shokz OpenRun Pro 2 review.
$181 at Amazon
$180 at Best Buy
$180 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Headphones
Apple AirPods Pro 2 (USB-C) Apple's AirPods Pro 2 with MagSafe (USB-C) are nearly identical to their Lightning predecessor, delivering the same excellent sound, noise canceling and voice-calling performance. They offer some other small upgrades, including additional dust resistance and a new acoustic architecture that allows for Lossless Audio with the Vision Pro. Despite their relatively high price, they're easy to recommend to Apple users. Apple rarely offers direct discounts on its own products, many retailers offer discounts on the AirPods Pro 2 throughout the holiday season. Read our Apple AirPods Pro 2 (USB-C) review.
$199 at Amazon
Close
Speakers
Bose SoundLink Flex (Currently out of stock) When it launched, Bose made some bold claims about its new SoundLink Flex Bluetooth speaker, particularly its bass performance. But it mostly lives up to the hype and arguably is the best-sounding wireless speaker for its compact size. Available in three colors -- black, white smoke and stone blue (pictured) -- it's equipped with Bose's PositionIQ technology to automatically detect the speaker's orientation and deliver optimized sound based on whether it's upright, hanging or flat on its back. Read our Bose SoundLink Flex review.
$109 at Bose
$105 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
Sony WF-1000XM5 When Sony's WF-1000XM4 earbuds came out in 2021, they netted a CNET Editors' Choice award. And while they're excellent, we had some quibbles -- they're on the large side and aren't a good match for certain ears. Clearly, Sony took those gripes to heart when it designed its next-generation WF-1000XM5 earbuds. Not only are the XM5s smaller, but they also offer improved performance pretty much across the board, with better noise canceling, sound quality and voice calling. There's no "find my" feature built into the app, overall, they're really impressive, and easily among the top earbuds on the market. Read our Sony WF-1000XM5 review.
$248 at Amazon
Close
Speakers
Ultimate Ears Everboom Not too long ago, Ultimate Ears released its higher-end Epicboom Bluetooth speaker, which sounds very good but is pretty pricey at $300 and somewhat large. The newer Everboom is about half the size, weighing in at 2.1 pounds (the Epicboom weighs 4.36 pounds) and more travel-friendly. It can't produce as much sound or bass as the Epicboom, but it does play relatively loud, and I was in some ways more impressed with its sound than the Epicboom's. By that I mean for its size, it's one of the best-sounding speakers, delivering punchy bass and nicely detailed sound.Fully waterproof (it floats) and dust-proof with an IP67 rating, it offers up to 20 hours of battery life at moderate volume levels and can be wirelessly linked up with most of UE's current family of Boom Bluetooth speakers, which includes the Boom 4, Megaboom 4, Epicboom and Hyperboom. Alas, the only strike against it is its relatively high price tag ($250).
$185 at Amazon
$270 at Best Buy
$270 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Speakers
JBL Charge 5 Wi-Fi JBL's original Charge 5 Bluetooth speaker comes in multiple color options, but the portable speaker is also available in a version that features both Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connectivity that links up with JBL's other Wi-Fi speakers in your home and is both Chromecast- and Apple AirPlay-enabled. It currently only comes in black and is a little more expensive than the Bluetooth-only version. But the dual wireless connectivity options offer a little more versatility, and streaming music over Wi-Fi instead of Bluetooth can help get you slightly better sound quality.The Charge 5 Wi-Fi is bigger than your average portable Bluetooth speaker, but it's got some good kick to it. Like previous Charge speakers, it has a USB out port that allows you to charge a device like a smartphone. Battery life is rated at up to 20 hours at moderate volume levels. It's fully waterproof and dust-proof.
$250 at JBL
$136 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Samsung Galaxy Buds 3 Pro If you're able to get a tight seal with one of the three sizes of included ear tips, there's little to complain about with Samsung's Galaxy Buds 3 Pro (read our full review). Yes, the noise cancellation might be a touch better, but the earbuds' excellent sound quality is clearly a step up from that of the Buds 2 Pro. Plus, they have a robust feature set, and their voice-calling performance is truly top-notch. Read our Samsung Galaxy Buds 3 Pro review.
$122 at Amazon
$190 at Samsung
Close
Best household gifts under $300
Yard & Garden
Solo Stove Bonfire 2.0 Solo Stove fire pits are among the best smokeless fire pits, and while they work great and their stainless steel construction gives them a sleek appearance, the original models had one flaw: They weren't so easy to clean up. That changed with the newer Solo Stove 2.0 fire pits, which are available in the same three sizes -- Ranger 2.0 (small), Bonfire 2.0 (medium) and Yukon 2.0 (large) -- and have a removable ash pan, a feature missing from the 1.0 models.
Read our Solo Stove Bonfire 2.0 review.
$350 at Amazon
Close
Sleep
Plufl Billed as the human dog bed, the Plufl has been getting a lot of play on TikTok and other social media channels, so we decided to try one. The "bed" actually comes in four pieces: the cover, two fairly long tube-like pillows and a slim, oval "mattress" made out of memory foam. You stuff everything inside the cover -- assembly takes about 15 minutes -- and lo and behold, you're looking at a giant dog bed (or a plush life raft that doesn't float) big enough for a human. Not only is it quite comfortable for homo sapiens, but our family canine immediately sought refuge in this much larger, roomier version of his bed. The Plufl is slightly more suitable for small or average-size humans, but as long as you aren't really tall, it should accommodate you. It comes in a few colors, and the cover is removable and washable.
$299 at Amazon
$299 at Walmart
Close
Headphones
Beast Mini Blender Plus There are a lot of mini blenders, but the Beast is one of the best we've tried and it's also attractively designed. Equipped with a 600-watt motor, it's more capable and powerful than many mini blenders. You can buy just the blender for $100, but this Mini Plus model comes with a couple of extra "vessels," which is a fancy way of saying containers, so you can easily go from blending to drinking your smoothie concoctions (and taking them to go). The blender is available in a few different color options. It's also worth noting that Beast makes a slightly bigger blender simply called the Beast Blender that costs $165.
$120 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
JBL Horizon 2 The clock radio once held a prominent spot on bedside tables around the world. No longer -- but companies still make them, and they've evolved. Case in point: JBL's Horizon 2 Bluetooth clock radio speaker. Not only is it an FM radio with a digital clock (yes, there's an alarm and a snooze button), but it's also a compact Bluetooth speaker that lets you stream tunes from your phone or tablet. Additionally, it has two USB ports for charging devices -- you provide the cables -- and there's an ambient light on the back.The speaker uses a power cord, but a button-cell battery provides backup power for the clock in the event of a power outage. The Horizon 2 comes in black or gray (pictured).
$109 at JBL
$120 at Amazon
Close
Headphones
Ember temperature-controlled smart mug (14 ounces) Ember's temperature-controlled smart mugs have been rising in price over the last couple of years, most likely due to supply chain issues, but they now come in more colors, including some eye-catching metallics that cost a little more than standard black, white or blue mugs.Ember makes 6-ounce, 10-ounce, and 14-ounce smart mugs that keep your beverage of choice hot while you sip it. While it won't keep your coffee or tea warm for hours, the idea is that you can select your ideal temp via the companion Ember app for iOS or Android and keep your beverage at a high temp during the 30 minutes or so it takes to casually drink it.I prefer the larger 14-ounce version, though it does cost more. A good insulated mug with a top will also keep your beverage hot (and would be cheaper), but the Ember allows you to drink a cup of joe like you normally would, not through a small hole in the top.
$180 at Amazon
Close
Small kitchen appliances
Cuisinart Pure Indulgence No matter what anyone says, homemade ice cream is the best ice cream. CNET's David Watsky spent more than 25 hours testing eight industry-leading ice cream makers, and Cuisinart's Pure Indulgence model came out on top. "This model made the best sorbet and non-dairy vegan ice cream of the bunch, presumably because the double-insulated hull helped it turn custard into dense ice cream faster," he says.
$130 at Amazon
$100 at Walmart
$126 at Best Buy
Close
Best fitness gifts under $300
Wellness
Theragun Mini 2.0 The original Theragun Mini was already a compact massage gun, and the second-gen version, released in 2022, is 20% smaller and 30% lighter, weighing only a pound. It easily fits in a backpack or purse and is great for travel. What's also new to this 2.0 model is USB-C charging, Bluetooth connectivity to the Therabody app on your iOS or Android device, and the inclusion of three foam attachments, instead of just one -- the Standard Ball, the Thumb and Dampener. While the three-speed Mini 2.0 doesn't have quite the power of one of Theragun's full-size devices, it's surprisingly powerful considering its size -- I've tried larger massage guns in this price range, and it's just as powerful. The rechargeable battery is rated to last two hours at the lowest speed setting, and a neoprene protective case is included. The Theragun Mini 2.0 comes in three colors: black, white and desert rose.
$199 at Walmart
$199 at Best Buy
Close
Sport Accessories
Oura Ring 3 Oura recently came out with the Oura 4, but the Oura Ring Gen 3, which costs at least $50 less, offers largely the same features as the newer version, and it's still one of our favorite fitness trackers, thanks to its sleek, modern design and insightful health tracking. Keep in mind that to turn the ring into more than a basic tracker, your giftee will need to pay $6 per month for an Oura membership.
$282 at Amazon
Close
Computer Accessories
Apple Watch SE (2022) If you want the latest and greatest Apple Watch, you should get the Watch Series 10 or the top-end Watch Ultra 2, but the SE remains the best value. You can also get it with LTE cellular service. It doesn't have some of the extra features of the Apple Watch 10, but the SE offers good performance for those who don't want to spend as much on an Apple Watch. It's available in two sizes; 40mm and 44mm. Read our Apple Watch SE (2022) review.
$189 at Amazon
$189 at Best Buy
Close
Headphones
Roll Recovery R8 Plus Over the last few years, foam rollers and massage guns have become popular recovery products after workouts, as well as important tools for stretching and warming your muscles pre-workout. The original Roll Recovery R8 and newer R8 Plus are somewhat of a combo between a roller and an unpowered massager. The key addition to the R8 Plus is a dial that allows you to adjust the amount of tension to more or less intense levels. You clamp it onto various body parts, with instructional videos showing you how to hit areas such as your calves, hamstrings, IT bands and arms. The R8 Plus is available in white, red or black.
$169 at Amazon
Close
Cool accessories and gadgets under $300
Philips Sonicare 9900 Prestige Available in three color options, the Sonicare 9900 Prestige is Philips top-of-the-line electronic toothbrush, carrying a list price of $380, though it usually sells for closer to $300. Why would you want to spend $300 on toothbrush? Well because you care a lot about your teeth. With the Sonicare 9900, you don't exactly "brush" your teeth. You lightly run the vibrating head over your teeth, following the guidance of the Sonicare app for iOS and Android that tells you what spots you missed and where you need to spend more time. It does encourage you to clean your teeth longer and with more care, hitting certain areas that traditional toothbrushes don't clean that well. It's feels like a huge upgrade from using a basic toothbrush. In our tests, using the 9900 daily helped cut down on plaque build up. The Sonicare 9900 charges wirelessly, and a wireless charging dock is included along with a traveling case that charges via USB-C. Replacement heads cost around $13 each (they come in a pack of two or four). While this is the top model in Philips' Sonicare line, it also makes several step-down models, including the Sonicare 9300, which costs $100 less. The 9900 has one additional cleaning mode and features SenseIQ technology that adapts to your brushing style. It has has a swankier travel charging case. Otherwise, they appear to be quite similar.
$323 at Amazon
Close
Oboz Cottonwood Mid Oboz makes a variety of hiking boots and walking shoes, along with a bunch of other footwear. The Cottonwood, which comes in mid and low versions in three color options (it's available for men and women), is a very comfortable hiking boot that's waterproof and can be used for everyday wear whether you live in an urban, suburban or rural setting. The mid version I tried offered good support and I appreciated the O-Fit insole, which is as good as many off-the-shelf orthotic insoles sold online. The shoe fit true to size and really didn't require any breaking in. It's also worth mentioning that it's mostly made out of recycled materials.
$165 at Oboz
Close
Keyboards
Logitech Casa Pop-Up Desk Available in three options, Logitech's Casa Pop-Up Desk is sort of the ultimate remote work accessory for laptops in that it combines a laptop stand with a low-profile keyboard and touchpad that you store inside the stand, which collapses into a textbook-sized book. The whole thing has a bit of heft to it (the stand is sleek and sturdy) and weighs more than some laptops at a little over 3 pounds. It's a nice portable setup, and both the Casa Keyboard and Casa Touch are solid performers. It is more mid-range than premium (there's no backlight, for example), and neither is quite up to the level of Logitech's Master Series of keyboards and mice, but I had little to complain about. Both have rechargeable batteries, shortcut keys such as Media Keys, Mic Mute and Emoji, and are compatible with the company's Logi Options Plus software.
$180 at Amazon
$180 at Best Buy
$180 at B&H Photo-Video
Close
Misc
Reliefband The Reliefband is designed to help people who suffer from motion sickness. It's available in a few different versions, and the company behind the product says each model "gently stimulates" the underside of your wrist with an electrical pulse. The technology is also cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. You do have to apply conductive gel to your wrist before you put on the Reliefband (a small tube is included), and some models allow you to wear the Reliefband and an Apple Watch at the same time with an optional band. You can also adjust the intensity settings.I've used Reliefband on a couple of fishing trips, and it did work for me (I don't get terrible motion sickness, but I do typically get a little). The entry-level Reliefband 50 hours ($100) and Reliefband Flex ($180) have nonrechargeable batteries, while the Sport ($250) and Premier ($280) feature rechargeable ones.
$180 at Reliefband
$150 at Amazon
Close
Misc
Sena R2 Evo Sena's smart bike helmets are a little heavier than your typical bike helmets, but they feature built-in speakers and a microphone, along with integrated Bluetooth communications. An intercom feature allows you to communicate with other riders in your group wearing compatible Sena helmets as if you're using walkie-talkies. There's also an LED taillight, and you can listen to music, make calls and hear GPS directions when you pair the helmet with your smartphone. If you are buying multiple helmets for your family or riding group, note that the step-up R2 Evo uses mesh communication for its intercom protocol, while the standard R2 uses long-range Bluetooth. Check the intercom interoperability before getting two different models.
$199 at Amazon
Close
Smith Momentum sunglasses Smith makes a wide range of lightweight, high-quality unisex sport sunglasses. One of the newest models is the Momentum, available in six colors with six different ChomaPop mirror lenses (the red mirror is pictured). Whichever kind you get, it also comes with a bonus clear lens. The Momentum is compatible with the company's optical docking system (ODS4) prescription lens insert, which can also be used with some Smith ski goggles.
$235 at Smith
Close
Tech
Braun Series 7
Most guys secretly want an electric razor, even if they've never used one. The Braun Series 7 isn't the top-of-the-line Braun -- the Series 9 is -- but it's a good value at around $145 for the base kit. It can be used dry or wet -- it's fully waterproof -- and it comes with beard trimmers, a cleaning dock and a carrying case. Battery life is rated at up to 50 minutes on a full charge, and a quick five-minute charge will get you enough juice for a shave.
$150 at Amazon
$140 at Walmart
Close
Get CNET Cheapskate Subscribe to our daily spotlight on the best tech deals on the web - from phones to gadgets and more.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time.
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group! Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+, will receive newsletters and promotional content and agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge the data practices in our Privacy Policy. You may unsubscribe at any time. Message and data rates may apply. Recurring messages subscription. Available in USA and Canada.
More Gift Guides
28 Best Gifts Under $200 to Buy in 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
33 Unique Gifts for People Who Already Have Everything
By
Natalia Lusinski
24 of the Best Gifts Under $150 for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
24 Best Luxury Gifts That Are Worth the Splurge
By
Jennifer Krazit
The Best Places to Order Flowers Online
By
David Watsky
Our Favorite Back-to-School Picks for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
The Best Student Discounts, Deals and Freebies for 2025
By
Charlotte Maracina
40 Best Toys for Kids in 2025: Our Editors Found the Hottest Gift Ideas for All Ages
By
Aaron Pruner
My Favorite Smartwatch Isn't the Latest Model but It Does Everything I Need
By
Corinne Reichert
Best Back-to-School Tech Gear and Gadgets in 2025
By
David Carnoy
Best Amazon Prime Day Back-to-School Deals: Shop Laptops, Notebooks, Backpacks and More
By
Desiree DeNunzio
It's Prime Day. Here's How You Can Get a $250 Amazon Gift Card Right Now
By
Courtney Johnston
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Last-Minute Father's Day Gifts for 2025
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Best Gifts Available on Amazon for 2025: From $10 to $250
By
James Bricknell
32 Best Father's Day Gifts for 2025: Unique Gift Ideas for Every Dad
By
David Carnoy
Best Father's Day Gifts You Can Find on Amazon in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Personalized Gifts to Show Your Dad Love on Father's Day in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Best Father's Day Gift Ideas for DIY Dads in 2025
By
James Bricknell
20 Best Father's Day Gifts for New Dads and Soon-to-Be Dads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Tariffs Are Up in the Air, but I Don't Regret Upgrading to the PlayStation 5
By
Evan Zimmer
26 Best Last-Minute Mother's Day Gifts for Every Kind of Mom in 2025
By
David Watsky
Over 80 of the Best Star Wars Gifts for 2025: Lightsabers, Legos and Much, Much More
By
Russell Holly
Best Graduation Gifts for College Grads in 2025
By
Deena Shinn
Don't Forget Grandma: She Deserves a Great Mother's Day Gift, Too
By
Desiree DeNunzio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.