This free Obsidian plugin syncs Karakeep to your notes, and it's amazing
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This free Obsidian plugin syncs Karakeep to your notes, and it's amazing
By
Megan Ellis
Published Sep 3, 2025
Megan is a Computing Writer at XDA Developers who has been writing about consumer technology since 2016. With a postgraduate degree in New Media journalism, she has always been passionate about diving deep into topics and writing about them in a way that makes them easier to understand for everyday consumers.
She runs her own blog called Tech Valkyrie and has bylines in Popular Mechanics South Africa, TFG Tech Mag, Memeburn, and Gearburn. She also worked at MakeUseOf as a Lead Editor.
In her spare time she plays video games and geeks out about the latest tech.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Obsidian is a great tool if you like a local-first approach to note-taking and prefer to write in Markdown. However, there are a variety of Obsidian plugins that can supercharge the software's features, unlocking new capabilities and interesting uses. One of these plugins is Hoarder Sync, which allows you to enable syncing between Obsidian and your Karakeep server. Besides allowing you to create a backup of your bookmarks in Obsidian, it also introduces new ways to save pages and text from the web.
What is Hoarder Sync?
An Obsidian plugin for Karakeep syncing
Hoarder Sync, also known as Obsidian Sync, is a community plugin that allows users to sync their Karakeep (formerly known as Hoarder) bookmarks with their local Obsidian app. Karakeep is a self-hosted bookmark manager that allows you to save links, but also notes, RSS feeds, and archived pages. By using the plugin, your links and notes are saved to specific Obsidian folders. You can choose to add additional notes or reference the information elsewhere in your workspace. This also creates a way for you to gather information and sources from around the web on different devices through Karakeep and then syncing them all to your main Obsidian workspace.
How to set up Hoarder Sync
Link the plugin to your Karakeep server
It's pretty easy to get started with Hoarder Sync, but you will need to configure the settings to get the most out of the plugin. First off, you can install the plugin from the community plugins page within Obsidian or follow the instructions on GitHub. Once this is done, you need to access the plugin's settings in Obsidian to link it to your server. To do this, you need to generate an API key in your Karakeep user settings that you will add to the plugin. You will also need to include a link to your Karakeep instance in the API endpoint field — make sure to add /api/v1 to the end of your server URL. If you are using a local instance, you will need to add your machine's IP address and the Karakeep port to this field. So, for example, if you have your instance hosted at 198.xxx.xx.xx:3000, the URL you will add to the plugin will be 198.xxx.xx.xx:3000/api/v1. To make the process as seamless as possible, I would also recommend setting up the Karakeep browser extension if you haven't already. The extension is available for Chrome (and therefore Brave as well) and Firefox. The extension lets you highlight text and right-click to save it to your Karakeep server — and it also makes saving bookmarks simpler. Karakeep is also available through an Android and iOS app. If you link these to your server, it can make saving bookmarks and information across devices more seamless. In the plugin settings, you can also select which folder to sync these bookmarks, links, and notes to. The settings allow you to exclude certain tags or to sync only your favorites or specific tags. You can also choose what the plugin does when you archive bookmarks and whether to sync your deletions as well.
How you can use Hoarder Sync to save bookmarks and notes from your browser
You can get creative with the plugin
How you use the plugin will depend on how you use both Obsidian and Karakeep. When importing your bookmarks, the plugin creates a new note for each link. These notes include the date you saved the bookmark, the link you saved, as well as certain media (such as a screenshot of the page). The note will also have a description of the bookmark, any notes you've added in Karakeep, and the ability to view the link in Karakeep. I used the Karakeep extension in Brave to save snippets from particular wiki articles in Obsidian. This allows me to highlight and right-click on the text to add it to Karakeep, rather than needing to open Obsidian and copy and paste text into a new note. By setting the plugin to only sync certain bookmarks (those with specific tags), I can also create a backup of my most important links. I also used tags as a way to compile resources about Ark: Survival Evolved, since I used Obsidian to track my progress with certain in-game tasks. However, there are a few drawbacks to the tool. Due to the way that Karakeep formats saved text, it's not great for saving text from tables. Karakeep usually just saves tables as chunks of text, which are then replicated in Obsidian (even though you can copy over tables to Obsidian notes). I also noticed that even when you save an archived page for a link, or the Karakeep bookmark includes all the text on a page, in Obsidian, only part of the text is displayed. With that said, Hoarder Sync is still a great plugin, and I'm impressed by how much it does accomplish. If you're a data hoarder and enjoy saving bookmarks and making notes about them, this Obsidian plugin is a must-try.
Have you found any useful ways to use Hoarder Sync?
I've mostly only used Hoarder Sync to create backups of my favorite bookmarks, while also saving important information I use to track in-game tasks in Ark. But if there's anything I've learned about Obsidian, it's that people use the software in completely different ways. I use Obsidian as a way to keep track of my gaming, but other people use it to create productivity workflows. If you have any interesting ways you use the plugin (or plan to), let me know in the comments. After all, it unlocks a lot of possibilities that depend on the way you use both tools.
Hoarder Sync
See at Github
Expand
Collapse
Productivity & Creativity Tools
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
NotebookLM’s huge update comes with a surprising downgrade
Sep 9, 2025
The scariest 2D game I've ever played is at its lowest price on Steam, just in time for October
Sep 10, 2025
You might not know it, but IRC predates most of the internet and directly influences it today
Sep 10, 2025
4 PowerToys Run automation snippets anyone can use
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 ‘just-enough’ Docker containers I use on every PC
I tried this open-source platform to self-host LLMs, and it’s faster than I expected
5 things I wish I knew when I started 3D printing smart home enclosures
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.