Scams and fraud | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
Scams and fraud
Where to report a scam
Identity theft
Imposter scams
Unemployment scams
How to get a copy of your credit report
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
Scams and fraud
Scams and fraud
Most popular
Learn the warning signs of identity theft and how to report it
Find out where to report a scam
Learn about Social Security and other imposter scams
Learn about identity theft, Social Security scams, and other common types of scams and fraud.
Do you want to report a scam? Answer a few questions to learn which government agency can help.
Where to report a scam
Have you experienced a scam and want to report it? Just answer a few questions to learn how to report the scam to the right place.
Identity theft
Learn what identity theft is, its warning signs, and how to protect yourself. Find out how to report identity theft if your information gets stolen.
Imposter scams
Imposters can pretend to be from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or Social Security Administration (SSA), a business, or a charity. These scammers want you to trust them so they can steal your personal information and money.
Unemployment scams
Scammers can file unemployment benefits using other people's names and personal information. Learn how to protect yourself and your benefits from this type of identity theft.
Learn about your credit report and how to get a copy
Credit reports list a history of your finances. Learn how to request credit reports, what information they include, and how lenders and other organizations may use them.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests