4 PCIe devices that outperform USB for performance
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
USB ports might be hampering your performance, use these 4 PCI devices instead
By
Chandraveer Mathur
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
When you're piecing together a new PC build or planning an upgrade, every port choice feels significant. You weigh the pros and cons, staring at the back of your motherboard's I/O shield and the empty expansion slots. Planning can be hard when you're torn between the plug-and-play convenience of USB and the raw, unadulterated power of a direct PCI Express (PCIe) connection. I've been in this dilemma several times before, and PCIe usually mops the floor with USB unless frequent disconnection and portability are important concerns. The difference in raw speed is staggering. A single PCIe 4.0 lane offers 2 GB/s of bandwidth. A standard x4 slot meant for network and storage extension cards can provide up to 8 GB/s. Compare that to a typical high-speed USB 3.2 Gen 2 port, which tops out at 10 Gbps (a measly 1.25 GB/s). This is an important factor if performance is critical to your operations, or if you plan to push these connections close to the rated speeds. As such, there are several ports I've learnt to use via PCIe instead of USB, but the hard way. Here are the top four offenders.
4
High-speed networking
Cool expansion card vs overheating front I/O clutter
In the battle of USB Wi-Fi dongles versus PCIe Wi-Fi cards, it's not even a fair fight. A USB Wi-Fi adapter is the epitome of convenience. Most of them are a tiny little nub that won't stick out like a sore thumb, but you can get models with one or two antennas as well, to improve reception and coverage, and forget about it. At least, that's the idea. In reality, I never forgot the dropped connections, inconsistent speeds, and how it got hotter than a habanero in a heatwave. The minuscule internal antennae are often overworked when plugged into the PC's rear I/O, which is just a signal-blocking Faraday cage. In stark contrast, a PCIe Wi-Fi card fits directly in the PCIe x1 slot to offer a trifecta of superiority. First, the larger PCB sitting in your PC case sports better components that benefit from the airflow inside, reducing thermal throttling and performance bottlenecks. Secondly, the external antennae that accompany these cards are useful in reducing dead spots, especially with Bluetooth coverage, since many of these cards offer Wi-Fi and Bluetooth together. Thirdly, a direct connection to the motherboard's BUS is inherently more stable than one routed through a USB controller that might be busy handling your mouse, keyboard, and webcam already. You aren't sacrificing an upgrade path either. Just like USB dongles, the superior PCIe networking cards are easy to swap out and upgrade if your motherboard doesn't have onboard Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.
3
Audio output
Sound cards blow USB DACs out of the water
Bigger isn't better with PCs, but sound cards beg for exemption. These chunky PCIe add-ons have been the choice of audiophiles since the 90s, and still are. If you reach for the comments or a pitchfork, I'll be clear that yes, external USB DACs are better because they isolate the audio from the PC's electrical noise and are usually cheaper. For pure, two-channel music listening, a high-quality external DAC is fantastic. But for a gaming and all-around media PC that needs true surround sound, a PCIe sound card offers a level of integration and customization that a simple USB DAC can't rival. The USB variants are one-trick ponies, while a PCIe sound card is a complete audio subsystem. It can help you replicate surround sound accurately, even if it doesn't support line out to a proper 5.1 or 7.1 surround sound system. Pair that with hardware-level EQ and gain settings and advanced noise reduction, voice morphing, and customization for mic input, and you have adequate power for a home theater. PCIe cards often come packed with ports—optical in/out, multiple 3.5mm jacks for speaker setups, and dedicated headphone amplifiers. No matter your gear, the expense guarantees a better experience.
2
M.2 SSD slots
Fast storage all day, every day
Most modern motherboards have half a dozen SATA ports where you can connect SSDs, but their true potential is unlocked by M.2 slots with direct BUS lanes to the processor. Sadly, there are only half as many of those, and you run out quickly. You can use an external SSD over USB to move files between machines, but those M.2 enclosures are often plagued by poor thermals and are limited by the bandwidth and power delivery of the USB port itself. Under any kind of sustained load, like editing a 4K video file directly from the drive, it will heat up and throttle its speeds to a crawl if the frequent disconnects don't infuriate you midway. The far superior solution is an M.2 NVMe SSD mounted on a PCIe adapter card. These cards slot into a PCIe x4 or x16 slot and provide a direct, high-speed connection for one or more NVMe drives. This arrangement benefits ‌from your case airflow just like the sound card, ensuring your SSD runs at peak performance without throttling. Moreover, said performance is only limited by the PCIe bus itself, which is orders of magnitude faster than any USB connection. If you want a two-for-one deal in a tiny ITX case with just a couple of vacant expansion slots, try adding an M.2 SSD expansion card and then mounting an M.2 Wi-Fi adapter on it.
1
USB ports
Never run out
This might sound completely backwards, but you can add more high-performance USB ports with a PCIe expansion card if that's what you prefer, but you've run out of usable ones. It's a classic case of fighting fire with fire, but it works out better than a cheap USB hub that promises more I/O while hogging one of the available USB ports. The hub counts on the chance that you'll never need the full bandwidth of the USB connection, so it's okay to split that up arbitrarily between multiple connectors and devices. It only leads to peripherals randomly disconnecting and transfer speeds tanking when your requirements spike. A PCIe USB expansion card adds a new USB controller independent of those already on your motherboard and front panel. It has dedicated bandwidth piped directly through a PCIe x1 or x4 lane. It is also a great upgrade for anyone missing modern I/O, like USB-C ports on an older motherboard, or looking to start VR gaming, all without replacing said motherboard. A PCIe card is the only way to ensure all the USB connectors run without stepping on each other's toes.
Choose stability over convenience
At the end of the day, the choice between USB and PCIe comes down to a component's role in your setup. USB is the master of temporary convenience. It's for the traveler, the transient device, the quick plug-and-play. It's brilliant, but it was designed for convenience, not sustained performance. This design philosophy costs you in thermal management, power delivery, and shared bandwidth. On the flipside, PCIe is for uncompromised performance and semi-permanent yet reversible upgrades to your PC. Picking wisely depends on your use case, but I usually favor PCIe ports if the case allows.
Other Hardware
PCIe 6.0
PCI-SIG
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
John
John
John
#NT779976
Member since 2025-06-02
0
Threads
2
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Yeah I was using a cheap wifi USB dongle on my PC, and while it seems good enough and gives you full bandwidth, if you try to run a sustained full speed download it throttles the bandwidth pretty quickly because it just can't handle a sustained load for more than 3-5 mins. I used to think it was an issue with my internet until I got a proper PCIe wifi expansion card with a heatsink. My internet speeds never throttled again.
2025-09-14 03:44:10
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
This all-flash mini PC has replaced my NAS, and I’m not going back
4 days ago
8 NAS specs you should never skimp on (even if you only care about storage)
5 days ago
This is how I keep my Docker backups safe with self-hosted backups
5 days ago
I work from home, but I'd rather use my laptop instead of my desktop
Today's best deals
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
5 hours ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
16 hours ago
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
1 day ago
See More
Trending Now
4 of the most underrated home server components
This free writing app is still in beta but it's already replacing Google Docs for me
I found a secret Obsidian plugin and now I never fumble at my tasks
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.