How to see the planet from above and below | National Geographic
PremiumPHOTOGRAPHYHow to see the planet from above and belowBy capturing the same thing from very different perspectives, a NASA astronaut and an intrepid photographer create a whole new way of seeing our world.Star trails streak across the sky at twilight above a grove of baobab trees in Madagascar.COMPOSITE OF 100 STACKED FRAMESByMarina KorenPhotographs byBabak Tafreshi and Don PettitSeptember 17, 2025Earlier this year, two photographer friends had just finished shooting the Grand Canyon when they began discussing what they might capture together next. Don Pettit was eager to train his camera on Madagascar and sent his friend Babak Tafreshi a text extolling the beauty of the place. Tafreshi didn’t disagree: He imagined the famous baobab trees, with their thick trunks and filigreed branches, cast mesmerizingly against a dark, star-speckled sky. So, even though he was tired from a good bit of traveling, he boarded a flight from Boston to Paris, and then another to Antananarivo, Madagascar’s capital city, where he stayed overnight before renting a car and driving out to the remote realm of the baobabs, a dirt road lined with dozens of the ancient trees.  Pettit’s journey was simpler: He floated from one room on the International Space Station to another, toward the windows that looked out onto the world.Pettit (left), photographed by one of his colleagues aboard the International Space Station, sets up a science experiment. Outside his official NASA duties, the astronaut found time to document Earth’s wonders along with his friend, Tafreshi, captured here in a portrait made by stitching together two panoramic photos taken at the base of a baobab tree in Madagascar.Photograph courtesy NASA (Top) (Left) and Photograph by AMIRREZA KAMKAR (Bottom) (Right)During his seven-month mission on the ISS, Pettit—who’s been an astronaut for nearly 30 years—worked with Tafreshi, a photographer and National Geographic Explorer, on an inventive project to photograph the same location or phenomenon from two wildly different perspectives, one photographer standing on the Earth, the other floating 250 miles above it. Together, they coordinated 10 photo shoots across four continents. The result is a celestial scrapbook of our planet, with spellbinding scenes that can make you feel grounded and weightless at the same time.  The pair initially connected not long after Pettit’s first stay on the then newly assembled ISS, in 2003. Pettit, an amateur photographer since sixth grade, had brought his digital cameras with him, and he’d used some scavenged station materials to fashion a camera mount that provided the stillness necessary to capture the night sky without smears of starlight. (Pettit, a scientist by training, is among NASA’s craftiest astronauts; he once designed a drinking cup to make sipping coffee easier in microgravity.) At the time, Tafreshi was working as an editor at the Iranian astronomy magazine Nojum. He had taken up photography as a teenager, focusing on the night sky and the natural wonders that become visible in the absence of light pollution. When Pettit’s pictures reached Earth, Tafreshi emailed the astronaut with compliments. Soon they became pen pals.Years later, as their correspondence grew into a photo project, Pettit and Tafreshi found that it helps to have different approaches to telling visual stories about Earth. Pettit, in particular, felt a duty to share his orbital vantage point with his fellow humans on Earth. “You want to share that imagery to people that don’t necessarily have the wherewithal to be there in orbit,” Pettit said.  In their effort to highlight the same location from vastly different perspectives, astronaut Don Pettit and photographer Babak Tafreshi took aim at the desert of the southwestern United States. Pettit caught ribbons of streaking light, formed by the bright lights of Los Angeles. From the Grand Canyon, Tafreshi pointed his camera skyward, snapping a quasi portrait of the International Space Station as
it skipped overhead.COMPOSITE OF 200 STACKED FRAMES (BELOW)With dense networks of forest and few major cities, Madagascar appears shrouded in a blanket of darkness when viewed from Pettit’s perspective aboard the ISS. From the ground, Tafreshi photographed the island’s famed baobab trees against a backdrop of swirling star trails that converge around the celestial south pole.
COMPOSITE OF 219 STACKED FRAMES (BELOW)Over the course of their project, the duo sought to synchronize their photo shoots, which required a tremendous amount of planning. They needed to account for orbital mechanics; from his perch on the ISS, Pettit circled the globe every 90 minutes, racing sunrises and sunsets. The trajectory of the space station mattered as well. When the pair first started brainstorming potential areas of interest, Tafreshi had plenty of ideas. “I told him, You know, Iceland is great,” Tafreshi recalled. But the ISS, Pettit replied, never flies over Iceland. Earthly considerations influenced the project too. Pettit once suggested a couple of regions that appeared photogenic from hundreds of miles up, but they were along the borders of countries in conflict—India and Pakistan, and North and South Korea—“so I couldn’t travel there because of safety matters,” Tafreshi said. Pettit, meanwhile, had to work around his astronaut duties. “When you’re on station, you’ve got a pretty encompassing day job,” Pettit, who has logged nearly 600 days in space across four missions, told me. “You need to make sure that there’s a hole in your work schedule where you can run to the cupola and take a few pictures.” You May Also LikeSCIENCEHow human hibernation could revolutionize medicine and get us to MarsSCIENCEAstronauts getting stuck in space is more common than you thinkHISTORY & CULTUREWhy astronaut Victor Glover still believes in moon shotsOn October 10, 2024, a strong geomagnetic storm lit up the Northern Hemisphere with colorful auroras. Pettit rushed to one of the ISS’s windows to document the vibrant curls of green and pink light before they vanished. Fortunately, Tafreshi didn’t have to travel far. He captured the same swirling pink phenomenon above his neighborhood in Salem, Massachusetts.
Over 214 million years ago, an asteroid slammed into Canada and created the Eye of Quebec, a 62-mile-wide crater clearly visible from Pettit’s vantage point aboard the ISS. In the years since, that crater has filled with water, forming the Manicouagan Reservoir. At dusk one evening along the reservoir bank, Tafreshi turned his camera toward the cosmos, highlighting sinewy streaks of starlight.COMPOSITE OF 400 STACKED TIME-LAPSE FRAMES (BELOW)LIMITED TIME: 50% OFF Big savings, bigger adventures. Subscriptions are starting at $17/year.SEE SUBSCRIPTION OPTIONSSometimes the universe went easy on them. A comet, visiting from the edges of the solar system, showed up a week after Pettit reached orbit. Tafreshi observed the bright object in Puerto Rico, but Pettit “had the best view,” without Earth’s hazy atmosphere, with its pesky clouds, in the way. Not long after that, a major aurora storm appeared in the skies over Tafreshi’s house—how convenient!—and the photographers captured the event within hours of each other, their best timing of the entire endeavor. When it comes to the rippling, mystical green lights, two views are better than one. “If you look at the same ripple from orbit, you might find that it’s actually an oval,” Pettit said. It’s as if they had surrounded the shimmering phenomenon, revealing its true nature.  While Pettit was spared the difficulties that can ruin a photographer’s day on the ground—rainy weather, for example—his cameras would occasionally malfunction because of the constant, invisible barrage of cosmic radiation, and now and again artifacts of astronaut life sneaked into his shots. Once, Tafreshi was scanning Pettit’s images of the Maldives, in the Indian Ocean, when he noticed an intriguing patch of green in the water—an algal bloom? “I was so excited until I got the next few shots and I realized, This patch is moving very fast,” Tafreshi said. It turned out to be a weight-lifting machine, reflected in the space station’s windows. “Every crew member works out on this machine for an hour and a half a day,” Pettit said. He would occasionally ask his colleagues if they wouldn’t mind turning off the lights and working out in the dark, just for a few minutes. Not everyone obliged.Atoms and molecules in Earth’s upper atmosphere, excited by sunlight, form a faint red haze high above Florida. Pettit spent nearly 600 days in space and often launched from Cape Canaveral. On a dark, star-studded night, Tafreshi observed a similar launch—this time of cargo via SpaceX’s Falcon 9 rocket—from Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge.COMPOSITE OF 1,100 TIME-LAPSE FRAMES (BELOW)Traveling at speeds of around five miles per second, the ISS zipped over the Canary Islands, and Pettit captured the Milky Way just beginning to peek out over Earth’s horizon. From a 7,900-foot-high summit in Caldera de Taburiente National Park in La Palma, Tafreshi recorded his own view of the rising Milky Way. Pettit and Tafreshi both believe that space photography is better done by people; there are plenty of satellites that take images of Earth from orbit, but often these pictures are flat and textureless. Pettit can play around with light and shadow, creating a richer portrait. And an orbital view of Earth is more meaningful when there is real emotion behind it. Karen Nyberg, a retired NASA astronaut, told me that she liked photographing the places where she knew her loved ones were. “I would go over Houston, or go over when they were visiting upstate New York, and feel very connected to them because I was only 250 miles away, just directly above them,” Nyberg said. “And then I would actually start to feel kind of this connection with people in other places on the Earth that I don’t know.” There’s also perhaps a hint of triumph in it; human bodies were not made to be in outer space, but there astronauts go, soaking up the wonder and sharing it with the rest of us.  In more than two decades of friendship, Pettit and Tafreshi have met in person only a handful of times. They communicate mostly via text and email. They told me they don’t really talk about their personal lives or get too philosophical, despite the nature of their work; their conversations are the stuff of true shutterbug geekery, all about f-stops and imaging software. Still, they’re not just photography buddies. When Tafreshi was robbed in Sicily and lost most of his equipment, he withheld the depressing details from Pettit because he didn’t want to worry him, explaining to me that it’s best practice not to upset an astronaut far from home. Pettit gently razzed him, saying that Tafreshi should be more careful about where he keeps his passport, which had been stolen too.  As the ISS sailed above the Montana-Wyoming border, Pettit used a 10-second exposure through his 50-mm lens to photograph Earth and one of its celestial neighbors, the Andromeda galaxy, which lies just 2.5 million light-years away. Yellowstone National Park’s Castle Geyser erupts before a backdrop of star trails in this 65-frame composite by Tafreshi.Though comet A3’s trajectory has brought it no closer than 44 million miles to our planet, it appears to pierce Earth’s atmosphere in Pettit’s photograph. From Vieques, Puerto Rico, Tafreshi documented the comet, which would become the brightest one to streak across the sky in decades, as it sailed across a blush-pink sunset.The Madagascar shoot was their last session before Pettit returned to Earth. The region has little artificial light, so Pettit’s shot hinged on the very alignment of celestial bodies—the presence of a full moon—to illuminate a landscape shrouded in nighttime. Tafreshi stood in the brush, taking in the shimmer of the Milky Way in the unspoiled sky. “It was surreal,” he said. The evening quiet was punctuated by the nocturnal murmurings of unseen wildlife and of villagers passing by in carts pulled by mules. From above, Earth is a gleaming world with a wispy atmosphere in an inky void. From below, it is a tangle of flora, fauna, and humanity that, as far as we know, doesn’t exist anywhere else. The resulting diptychs present Earth as it truly is—just another planet, and our only home.A version of this story appears in the October 2025 issue of National Geographic magazine.Babak Tafreshi, a Boston-based National Geographic Explorer, visited four continents for this story. He is a past winner of the Royal Photographic Society’s Award for Scientific Imaging.A former Atlantic staff writer, Marina Koren says her beat is “all things space,” including astronomical discoveries and human spaceflight. This assignment reminded her, Koren says, “that the cosmos is a physical place we inhabit.” Maps: Matthew W. Chwastyk, NGM StaffSource: NASA Johnson Space CenterRelated TopicsSPACESPACE STATIONSLANDSCAPE PHOTOGRAPHYLANDSCAPESASTRONAUTSAURORAMILKY WAYSPACE EXPLORATIONYou May Also LikeTRAVELHere's what an astronaut has to say about space tourismHEALTHCosmic radiation gave the Fantastic Four superpowers. Here's what would happen in real life.SCIENCEWhat’s out there? Why humanity keeps pushing the cosmic frontier.HISTORY & CULTURESee Sally Ride’s boundary-breaking life in photosSCIENCEWhy go back to the moon? NASA’s Artemis program has even bigger ambitionsLegalTerms of UsePrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationOur SitesNat Geo HomeAttend a Live EventBook a TripBuy MapsInspire Your KidsShop Nat GeoVisit the D.C. MuseumWatch TVLearn About Our ImpactSupport Our MissionMastheadPress RoomAdvertise With UsJoin UsSubscribeCustomer ServiceRenew SubscriptionManage Your SubscriptionWork at Nat GeoSign Up for Our NewslettersContribute to Protect the PlanetFollow usNational Geographic InstagramNational Geographic FacebookNational Geographic TwitterNational Geographic YoutubeNational Geographic LinkedinNational Geographic TiktokNational Geographic RedditUnited States (Change)Copyright © 1996-2015 National Geographic SocietyCopyright © 2015-2025 National Geographic Partners, LLC. All rights reserved