CNN Weekly News Quiz: September 19, 2025 - CNN
Advertisement
CNN
Games
5 Things Weekly News Quiz
Michael Le Brecht/DisneyGetty Images/File
Amy Harris/Invision/AP
Mahmoud Issa/Reuters
Weekly News Quiz: September 19, 2025
By Alexandra Banner and James Grant
A Hollywood shake-up. A state visit. A tech announcement. What do you remember from the week that was?
Keep up with the news you need. Sign up for the 5 Things newsletter.
Which network is taking Jimmy Kimmel’s late-night talk show off the air indefinitely?
Michael Le Brecht/DisneyGetty Images/File
ABC
CBS
Fox
NBC
Disney’s ABC is taking Jimmy Kimmel’s late-night talk show off the air indefinitely amid a controversy over his recent comments about Charlie Kirk’s suspected killer.
President Donald Trump met with Prime Minister Keir Starmer this week as part of his second state visit to which country?
Aaron Chown/WPA Pool/Getty Images
France
Canada
United Kingdom
Australia
President Trump and first lady Melania Trump traveled to the UK for a historic second state visit.
Which ice cream brand announced that its co-founder has quit the company?
Lisa Lake/Getty Images/File
Häagen-Dazs
Ben & Jerry’s
Baskin-Robbins
Cold Stone Creamery
Ben & Jerry’s co-founder Jerry Greenfield quit the ice cream brand he started in 1978 amid a dispute with its British owner Unilever.
Pilots reported a laser targeting multiple commercial flights in Boston this week. What color was the laser?
FAA
Red
Yellow
Green
Blue
The FAA is investigating reports of a "green laser" that targeted planes flying near Boston Logan International Airport on Monday.
The desert-centric Coachella music festival announced its 2026 lineup this week. Where does the annual concert take place?
Amy Harris/Invision/AP
Arizona
California
Nevada
New Mexico
Music lovers will flock to California’s Coachella Valley for the massive festival in April 2026.
Which tech giant unveiled AI-powered smart glasses this week?
Courtesy Meta
Apple
Meta
Microsoft
Google
Mark Zuckerberg unveiled Meta’s newest AI-powered smart glasses on Wednesday. The glasses have a tiny display screen inside the lens that only the wearer can see, among other interesting features.
Which city may soon see the arrival of federal law enforcement as part of President Trump’s latest crime crackdown?
Nina Westervelt/Bloomberg/Getty Images/File
Memphis
Miami
Minneapolis
Milwaukee
President Trump announced Monday that he will soon send federal law enforcement to Memphis. The deployment is part of Trump’s broader effort to expand his anti-crime push nationwide.
Which award show recently took place in Los Angeles?
Patrick T. Fallon/AFP/Getty Images
Grammy Awards
Tony Awards
Academy Awards
Emmy Awards
The 77th Primetime Emmy Awards, honoring the best in American television, were broadcast live from Los Angeles on Sunday. See the full list of winners.
The Israeli military launched a massive ground offensive this week in which city?
Mahmoud Issa/Reuters
Cairo
Beirut
Gaza City
Amman
Israel said it launched an expanded ground assault on Gaza City on Tuesday in defiance of international condemnation, as Palestinians fled the enclave’s largest urban area in waves.
President Trump has filed a $15 billion lawsuit against which newspaper?
Gary Hershorn/Corbis News/Getty Images
The Washington Post
The Wall Street Journal
The New York Times
The Los Angeles Times
President Donald Trump filed a $15 billion lawsuit against The New York Times, alleging defamation.
Link Copied!
What do you think of this week’s quiz? What do you want to see in future quizzes? Whether you are a 5 Things quiz superfan or taking your first one, we want to hear your ideas.
Submit
Keep up with the news you need. Sign up for the 5 Things newsletter.
Play more games
Test your knowledge with our free collection of games and puzzles—right here on CNN.
More games
Why the dinner party is a declining art
Have you heard about ‘Have I Got News for You’ season 2?
CNN’s audience shares its thoughts on tariffs
Search
Follow
CNN
Terms of
Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility & CC
AdChoices
About Us
CNN Store
Newsletters
Transcripts
License Footage
CNN Newsource
Sitemap
© 2025 Cable News Network.A Warner Bros. Discovery Company.All Rights Reserved.CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.