T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review: Plans, Pricing, Speed and Availability - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review: Plans, Pricing, Speed and Availability
This telecom titan is changing the game with its home broadband service. Is it right for your household? Let's take a look.
Article updated on July 25, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Trey Paul
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Trey Paul Former Senior Editor Trey Paul was a CNET senior editor covering broadband. His 20+ years of experience as a writer and editor include time at the broadband marketplace Allconnect, as well as working with clients like Yahoo!, Google, The New York Times and Choice Hotels. An avid movie fan, Trey's career includes being a film and TV critic while pursuing a degree in New York. Expertise Home internet and broadband, including plans, providers, internet speeds and connection types. Movies and film studies. Credentials Master's degree in Cinema Studies from NYU and interviews with Conan O'Brien, Stan Lee and some of his biggest Star Trek childhood idols
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
34353637383940+ Reviews 344345346347348349350400+ Cities/States
Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links.
Unavailable in
Provider unavailable in 90001 Edit ...
Starting at $50
Or call:
Or call to learn more:
(877) 836-0082
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet rating How we calculated our rating
7.4/10
CNET Score
We score internet providers for speed, value and customer care. Our data sources include the FCC, J.D. Power, The American Customer Satisfaction Index and extensive in-house research.
Read more
7.4 / 10
SCORE
Speed
6.5/10
Value
7.5/10
Customer Care
8/10
Pros
No contracts
No data caps
Simple, affordable pricing
Aggressively competitive with its terms and perks
Cons
Speeds may vary
Max download speeds don't match fiber and cable
Home internet customers deprioritized over mobile
See more pros and cons
Table of Contents
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review: Plans, Pricing, Speed and Availability
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet plan options
Where is T-Mobile 5G Home Internet available?
No hidden fees with T-Mobile 5G Home Internet (with one exception)
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet perks and promos
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet vs. competitors
Final thoughts on T-Mobile 5G Home Internet
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet FAQs
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet reviewCan T-Mobile's home internet service meet your household's broadband needs? Let's look at what makes this internet service provider different. Since the debut of its home internet service years ago, T-Mobile has positioned itself as an industry disruptor, launching campaigns like "Internet Freedom" and encouraging potential customers to "break up with Big internet." A significant driver of those pushes is aggressive limited offers -- currently, T-Mobile is giving customers a gift card of up to $300 when signing up online -- and a lack of long-term contracts or data caps. Pretty sweet, right?While T-Mobile 5G Home Internet is currently available to more than 50 million homes across the US, many locations and addresses still can't get it. 5G is the marquee player on this bill, but T-Mobile relies on 4G LTE to help expand its home internet service area. That means that of the 5G home internet providers, T-Mobile doesn't offer the fastest speeds on average.
Getty Images/Tharon Green/CNETWhen T-Mobile launched its home internet service as a test program in 2021, we were among the first to give it a hands-on test run. By April 2021, T-Mobile announced the full launch of its home broadband service nationwide. A short year later, it expanded its availability to 40 million households, and CNET returned to give it another try. Another of our writers, who has used the service for three years, more recently shared her experience with T-Mobile 5G Home Internet. Locating local internet providers
Overall, T-Mobile continues to be ecstatic about its 5G home internet offering. The number of subscribers has reached 7.3 million, according to the company's second-quarter 2025 report, and the Federal Communications Commission included T-Mobile's home internet offering as one of only 11 fixed internet services able to cover at least 5% of the US population. Further, T-Mobile 5G Home Internet made a splash with the 2025 American Customer Satisfaction Index survey results by earning first place in customer satisfaction for all non-fiber internet service providers. Not too shabby.Now that the company has established its home broadband offering, will T-Mobile 5G Home Internet prove a viable option to replace your current ISP?  Locating local internet providers
Getty Images/Tharon Green/CNETT-Mobile 5G Home Internet plan optionsT-Mobile offers customers T-Mobile Rely Internet, T-Mobile Amplified Internet and T-Mobile All-In Internet. These plans feature faster speeds than what the company offered in 2024, but for similar pricing to the Home Internet and Home Internet Plus plans. The speed boost is thanks to new and upgraded gateway routers, which are included with your service.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
The Amplified and All-In Internet plans offer download speeds of 133Mbps to 415Mbps, whereas the Rely Internet plans are 87Mbps to 318Mbps. These are an upgrade from the 72Mbps to 245Mbps you got from the previous standard plan. In addition, your upload speeds will also look different by plan. The Rely Internet plan offers slightly faster upload speeds of 14Mbps to 56Mbps.If your household does a lot of streaming, then T-Mobile's All-In Internet plan might be a good option. The plan includes a free Hulu and Paramount Plus (with ads) subscription. You also get a mesh router to help with coverage throughout the home. In addition, this plan is designed to ensure that customers have unlimited live tech support at all times through Assurant Personal TechPro. Although T-Mobile's standard plan already offered a customer care team aiding tech support for its customers, the All-In Internet plan goes a step further. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet prices
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details
T-Mobile Rely Internet Read full review $50 ($35 for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max customers)87-318Mbps download, 14-56Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts. Taxes and fees included in price. T-Mobile Amplified Internet Read full review $60 ($45 for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max customers)133-415Mbps download, 12-55Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts. Taxes and fees included in price. T-Mobile All-In Internet Read full review $70 ($55 for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max customers)133-415Mbps download, 12-55Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts. Taxes and fees included in price.
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.More speed options Initially, only one speed tier was available (72Mbps to 245Mbps), but now, there are more speeds to choose from without paying for more. These new plans feature relatively similar pricing to that of the standard plans. The premise of 5G home internet is that, unlike typical internet connection types (including coaxial cable lines, fiber-optic internet and digital subscriber lines), you're not reliant on underground constructions and deployments to get you connected. Instead, a fixed wireless internet service provides you with a router that connects to a cellular signal.
T-MobileT-Mobile provides its Wi-Fi Gateway device, a combination modem and Wi-Fi 6 router compatible with T-Mobile's 4G LTE and 5G networks. As you can see from the chart, the only variable is the average download and upload speed you'll experience. At the bare minimum, T-Mobile says, all eligible households should see average download speeds of 133 megabits per second. Depending on your location and the placement of the T-Mobile Gateway, you might see download speeds as high as 415Mbps. Shouldn't 5G be faster? The hope and promise of 5G and its capabilities haven't yet been fully realized, at least not by T-Mobile. My former CNET colleague Eli Blumenthal has thoroughly detailed the basics of 5G and how not all "5G" is the same. In summary, faster 5G speeds come with shorter ranges. The farther the distance, the less speed on the top end.
Enlarge Image
T-Mobile utilizes much of its 4G LTE network to expand its availability, so don't expect full 5G capabilities all the time. T-MobileFor T-Mobile to hit the road running with availability to more than 30 million households at its launch, it leaned on its 4G LTE network as well as its growing 5G network. That's why my CNET colleagues averaged just more than 40Mbps download speeds with T-Mobile 5G Home Internet, and some households may get up to just more than 100Mbps. Anecdotally, we've heard of some users seeing download speeds as high as 300Mbps. Still, T-Mobile's FAQ section promises customers will "see typical download speeds between 87-415Mbps." While that may be plenty of speed for many folks, it doesn't compare to the higher download speeds you might get with fiber internet or cable plans. At least not yet.Where is T-Mobile 5G Home Internet available?When discussing any ISP, it's always good to begin by answering the fundamental question: Can I get this service? T-Mobile 5G Home Internet is available to about 60% of the country and all 50 states -- making it the most widely available home internet service. By comparison, Verizon's 5G Home Internet service has rolled out in approximately 900 markets but is available to about 40 million homes. In the meantime, T-Mobile is open to signups in more than 600 cities, but more households, many within rural areas. Check the T-Mobile 5G Home Internet eligibility page to determine if your address is serviceable.When will T-Mobile 5G Home Internet get to me? As mentioned, T-Mobile is the most widely available 5G home internet service. Considering that US Census data puts the total number of households in the country at approximately 143 million, about 60% of households remain ineligible for T-Mobile 5G Home Internet. A T-Mobile spokesperson didn't have specific details on expansion plans but highlighted that more than 10 million households in the current footprint are within rural America. Additionally, there's a focus on expanding access for small towns and communities. Yet, it's worth noting that even if you can access T-Mobile's 5G network, you may not automatically get its 5G home internet service.No hidden fees with T-Mobile 5G Home Internet (with one exception) One of the significant wins for T-Mobile 5G Home Internet is its straightforwardness. There's no pesky small print. ISPs are notorious for their hidden fees and trap pricing -- they try to lure you in with enticing promo prices but then stick you with a larger bill after those terms expire. That's not the case here. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet features no data caps so you don't have to fear data overage fees. There's no equipment fee for the Gateway device so you don't have to figure out an additional monthly cost to tack on to your regular bill. It also requires no annual service contracts so you don't have any early termination fees looming over your head. These are all appealing aspects of this service and make it very enticing to try T-Mobile 5G Home Internet if available in your area. There is one additional fee you'll have to pay once at the start of your service: a $35 "device connection charge," similar to the activation fee you pay with many ISPs. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet perks and promosIn addition to its new plans, T-Mobile is sweetening the pot with a slew of perks to draw in potential customers. First, customers with eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max plans can save $15 monthly. Second, new customers can get a $300 virtual gift card ($200 for Rely subscribers) for signing up for T-Mobile 5G Home Internet. Third, customers who sign up for the All-In plan will also get free Hulu and Paramount Plus subscriptions. Last, home internet customers can participate in T-Mobile Tuesdays, the company's weekly discount and free perks promotion. T-Mobile also runs a "Worry-free Test Drive" promotion, during which customers can try the service for 15 days with a money-back guarantee. Customers also get a five-year price guarantee.T-Mobile 5G Home Internet vs. competitors
ACSIT-Mobile 5G Home Internet hit the ground running in 2023 when it debuted at the top of the American Customer Satisfaction Index's survey of nonfiber internet service providers. It scored 73 out of 100 points, well ahead of the category's 66-point average. Even more impressive is that it improved that score by 4% in 2024, still topping the ACSI chart. It moved up again in 2025, bumping up its score by another 3% and leading all non-fiber ISPs with a 78 score. Regarding availability, T-Mobile is also ahead of its 5G home internet competitors, AT&T Internet Air, Starry and Verizon. Starry is available in five major metropolitan areas: Boston, Denver, Los Angeles, New York City and Washington, DC. Verizon is available in more cities than T-Mobile (currently 900), but is behind T-Mobile in total households covered. Starry and Verizon have the upper hand on average download speeds. Starry customers typically see consistent download speeds of 200Mbps, and Verizon's 5G Home Internet plans average about 300Mbps. What Starry and Verizon have given up regarding widespread availability, they currently make up for in the average speeds they deliver. All the 5G home internet providers share freedom from all the hidden fees and pricing games that many cable and fiber ISPs play. With 5G, the monthly rate is the monthly rate. There are no equipment rental charges, data caps or binding annual contracts. Final thoughts on T-Mobile 5G Home InternetIf it's speed you're after, T-Mobile's 5G home internet service might not impress if you have other cable and fiber internet providers available at your address. If you're in a rural or less developed area where DSL or satellite was your only previous option, T-Mobile will feel lightning fast by comparison. As one CNET early adopter of T-Mobile 5G Home Internet noted, "Imperfection is a lot more tolerable when you're paying less than half what you were before." Overall, T-Mobile has positioned itself as a viable option in the home internet space, making it an intriguing player to watch as it expands its 5G infrastructure. If nothing else, because it demands no contract commitment, it's an opportunity to try a different option and maybe even use it as leverage to negotiate with your current internet service provider. Hopefully, the more options we have as consumers, our internet service will improve in the long run. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet FAQs
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet FAQs
Are there data caps with T-Mobile 5G Home Internet?
No. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet features unlimited data, so customers will not have any potential data overage fees or charges hanging over their heads. However, if you use T-Mobile 5G Home Internet, you could find your service slowed in cases where the company prioritizes its mobile users over its fixed wireless service.
Does T-Mobile 5G Home Internet come with a router?
Yes. Your router is included in your monthly bill for whichever plan you choose. One of the appealing aspects of T-Mobile 5G Home Internet is that its monthly fee -- $50 to $70 a month (or $35 to $55 monthly for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max mobile customers) -- includes a gateway (a modem/router combo device). The T-Mobile equipment lease is included in the one fee, and all that's required is that you return the device when you end service with T-Mobile.
Is T-Mobile 5G Home Internet faster than satellite internet?
For the most part, yes, but not unequivocally. You may find faster speeds with T-Mobile's new plans, ranging anywhere between 87 to 415Mbps in download speeds and 12 to 56Mbps in uploads. As T-Mobile says in its Open Internet policy, "many factors affect the speed and performance that customers experience, including ... proximity to a cell site, weather and the surrounding terrain."Whichever T-Mobile plan you choose, you should see download speeds higher than those typically achieved on Hughesnet (an average of 50 to 100Mbps) and Viasat (up to 150Mbps). The Starlink plans can offer similar internet speeds (30 to 220Mbps) but are much more expensive -- $120 to $1,000 monthly, plus a one-time equipment fee of $349 or $599 for the Starlink Mini.
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.