Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649 — second price increase of 2025 comes as shifting tariffs continue to plague tech prices | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
GPUs
GPU Price Index 2025: Lowest Nvidia, AMD, and Intel prices
Gaming Monitors
Best Gaming Monitors 2025: Budget, Curved, G-Sync and More
Handheld Gaming
Lenovo Legion Go on sale for $499
CPUs
AMD's Ryzen 7 9800X3D gaming chip champ drops to $449 at Amazon — $29 off its MSRP
SSDs
Just $539 for the gargantuan 8TB WD Black SN850X to pop in your gaming rig
Console Gaming
Gaming consoles are becoming more expensive as they age for the first time in history
Handheld Gaming
Leaked ROG Xbox Ally and ROG Ally X prices hint at a similar price range to existing models
Nintendo
Nintendo raises prices on the Switch 1, making last-gen console a hard sell
PlayStation
PlayStation 5 Digital Edition with 1TB SSD downgraded to 825GB listed at the same price
Nintendo
Nintendo Switch 2 prices might climb due to tariff changes
Nintendo
Nintendo to revise hardware, game, and membership pricing in Canada amid changing market conditions
GPUs
Data reveals many GPUs are still selling for 50% more than MSRP
Handheld Gaming
Asus ROG Xbox Ally and Xbox Ally X to launch October 16
Console Gaming
The 2TB Xbox expansion card is massive 42% off during Amazon Prime Day — upgrade your Xbox storage for less
Gaming Monitors
Best Monitors for PS5, Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S in 2025
Video Games
Console Gaming
Xbox
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649 — second price increase of 2025 comes as shifting tariffs continue to plague tech prices
News
By
Bruno Ferreira
published
19 September 2025
Prospective Halo gamers are probably feeling an Energy Sword in their guts right now.
Comments (40)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Microsoft)
Microsoft has announced a new price increase for its Xbox Series X and S consoles coming on October 3, a scant five months after the previous hike in May. The already-pricey Xbox Series X now commands $649.99, the Series S goes for $399.99 (with 512 GB of storage), and the capacious Series X 2 TB Galaxy Black Special Edition has a price tag as long as its name, at $799.99.However, this time around, things are a little different. The sting is pointed only at U.S. customers, and mercifully covers only the consoles. This is in contrast to the May increase, when Microsoft raised prices on its console wares across the board, including accessories and games, and applied them worldwide.Swipe to scroll horizontallyRevised Xbox Series U.S. pricingModelNew priceOld priceDifferenceXbox Series X$649.99$599.99$50Xbox Series X Digital$599.99$549.99$50Xbox Series S 1 TB$449.99$429.99$20Xbox Series S 512 GB$399.99$379.99$20Xbox Series X 2 TB Galaxy Black Special Edition$799.99$729.99$70Predictably, Microsoft pins the blame for the increase on "changes in the macroeconomics environment", corporate-speak that likely means tariffs. While that might be a decent justification in of itself, some would argue that it's a lack of forethought and/or poor optics to have price increases twice in the same year for similar reasons.
You may like
Gaming consoles are becoming more expensive as they age for the first time in history
Leaked ROG Xbox Ally and ROG Ally X prices hint at a similar price range to existing models
Nintendo raises prices on the Switch 1, making last-gen console a hard sell
Microsoft might be simply following the market on the heels of Sony, which raised prices for its PlayStation 5 lineup by $50 roughly a month ago. As it stands, the standard PlayStation 5 currently sits at $549.99, undercutting the Xbox Series X by a solid $100. That's quite the bitter pill for prospective Halo gamers to swallow, and just like Microsoft's Q4 revenue, it's more than a little rich in light of PlayStation having a lion's share of the market.If that wasn't enough, the time is ripe for affordable PCs, and some napkin math puts a machine equal or better to the Xbox Series X at around the $600 mark, give or take, as pricing winds allow. Given how hard Microsoft is pushing its cross-platform Xbox Game Pass, it's become harder still to justify the price of a Series X.Back in August, Sony reported that it had sold 80.3 million PlayStation 5 consoles. There are no sales figures for the Xbox Series consoles, but if Take-Two's financial report from May is to be believed, a total of around 107 million ninth-generation consoles have been sold. Simple math would put the Xbox Series offerings at over 27 million.Considering the elapsed time since then and assuming a very generous 30 million, that works out to 62.6% versus 37.3% for Sony. Good thing Microsoft's services are raking in cash hand over fist.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See all comments (40)
Bruno FerreiraContributorBruno Ferreira is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. He has decades of experience with PC hardware and assorted sundries, alongside a career as a developer. He's obsessed with detail and has a tendency to ramble on the topics he loves. When not doing that, he's usually playing games, or at live music shows and festivals.
Read more
Gaming consoles are becoming more expensive as they age for the first time in history
Leaked ROG Xbox Ally and ROG Ally X prices hint at a similar price range to existing models
Nintendo raises prices on the Switch 1, making last-gen console a hard sell
PlayStation 5 Digital Edition with 1TB SSD downgraded to 825GB listed at the same price
Nintendo Switch 2 prices might climb due to tariff changes
Nintendo to revise hardware, game, and membership pricing in Canada amid changing market conditions
Latest in Xbox
Console repairer encounters Xbox 360 that Microsoft banned over 'bad debt' from unpaid bills — Microsoft MVP chimes in with an elegant official solution
Microsoft tests Xbox app with Battle.net integration — updated app brings third-party game library aggregation
How AMD’s partnership with Microsoft could help Team Red stay competitive against Nvidia
Xbox Series X|S expansion card from Seagate now comes in 4TB
Asus partners with Microsoft launch first Xbox gaming handhelds, the ROG Xbox Ally and Ally X
Microsoft hikes prices of Xbox consoles, controllers, headsets, and games worldwide
Latest in News
Nvidia and OpenAI forge $100 billion alliance to deliver 10 gigawatts of Nvidia hardware for AI datacenters
Intel, AMD, and MediaTek reportedly among TSMC's 2nm early adopters — company said to have 15 customers lined up for new process tech
The Taliban begins implementing fiber optic internet ban to ‘prevent immorality’ in Afghanistan
Samsung earns Nvidia's certification for its HBM3 memory
FSR 4 modded to run on RDNA 2 GPUs improves visuals by "leaps and bounds" but carries 10-20% less FPS
Twitch streamer raising money for cancer treatment has funds stolen by malware-ridden Steam game
40 Comments
Comment from the forums
Alvar "Miles" Udell
"Let's raise prices now so when it goes "on sale" for Black Friday we will still make money!"
Reply
JamesJones44
Seems like the only console generation that gets more expensive with age.
Reply
txfeinbergs
That thing is barely worth half that.
Reply
atomicWAR
This was a bad if not predictable move by MS. I get there are reasons to raise prices with tariffs and what not but MS is in a less than ideal spot in the console space now IMO.
Their console market share is low regardless of how well they claim Game Pass is doing. The last thing they need to do is increase the cost of entry to their ecosystem. I am guessing if rumors are true that the next gen console may be more of a licensed hardware approach through OEMs like Asus similar to the upcoming release of their handheld, than a more tradition 'closed' box where prices are subsidized. Which will make their next gen prices even higher IF they adopt multiple store fronts as rumored. Which we are seeing on the PC side of things already with the Xbox app adding Steam games to their interface. So everything points to these rumors being somewhat if not completely true.
I believe MS would have been better off eating the loss for now. Then when the next gen stuff drops, the series consoles should be profitable. They could keep them...or at least the Series X... as the new entry point. Making the the whole new product stack and pricing scheme much more digestible. Better that than alienating consumers now and hoping they come back with the Xbox next/PC (or what ever they call it). MS is eroding what little goodwill they have left, just to save a few bucks in the short term. IDK it just seems like a foolish way to move forward unless they are truly ready to cede the entire 'console' market to Sony and Nintendo which may well be the case. I guess we'll know soon enough.
Reply
russell_john
Let's see the price of Xbox systems have increased 33%. The Tariff Tax on China is 35%. I just can't figure out why the price increased and Microsoft just didn't take a 35% loss instead of just a 2% loss ......
Reply
Giroro
txfeinbergs said:That thing is barely worth half that.I spent half that, and I still regret it
Reply
hotaru251
MS: "so GPUs are costly and ppl are going to come to consoles as cheaper....we raising price becasue what are they gonna do? buy a pc gpu thats even more than the new console price?"
Reply
Air2004
A new console is most likely and this is just away to get people used to what will be the new standard price.... but in Xbox fashion, I'm sure they'll be a refresh of some sort with slight better specs in the next year or so.
Reply
InnatelyAcidic89
This is just greed, pure and simple. Microsoft willingly sold consoles at a loss for over a decade. I hope they don't sell a single console. Even if they want out of the market, having to sit on old stock might still hurt a little bit(albeit the equivalent of a pinch for them) I think it's time to sell my series x. It's not that old, and I just want what I paid for it
Reply
TerryLaze
atomicWAR said:Their console market share is low regardless of how well they claim Game Pass is doing. The last thing they need to do is increase the cost of entry to their ecosystem. I am guessing if rumors are true that the next gen console may be more of a licensed hardware approach through OEMs like Asus similar to the upcoming release of their handheld, than a more tradition 'closed' box where prices are subsidized. Which will make their next gen prices even higher IF they adopt multiple store fronts as rumored. Which we are seeing on the PC side of things already with the Xbox app adding Steam games to their interface. So everything points to these rumors being somewhat if not completely true.???
Their next xbox is going to be an OS, like steam already has, the cost of the next gen xbox console will be zero if you already have a PC.
They increase console hardware prices because they want to keep people from buying them so that they can stop producing them altogether.
Reply
View All 40 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.