Three Postdoc and one PhD positions: ERC StG project in optical soft robotics job with Robotic Materials Group, ETH Zurich | 12845166
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Three Postdoc and one PhD positions: ERC StG project in optical soft robotics
Employer
Robotic Materials Group, ETH Zurich
Location
Zurich, Canton of Zürich (CH)
Salary
Postdoc annual salary: 92'500-101'900 CHF. PhD annual salary: 52'500-83'500 CHF.
Closing date
23 Dec 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Applied Science,
Engineering
Job Type
PhD Position,
Postdoctoral
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Fixed term
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
The Robotic Materials group at ETH Zurich Department of Materials is looking for three postdocs and one PhD for the project funded by ERC Starting Grant: "Distributed Addressable Robotic Material via Wavelength-Division-Multiplexing (ColorfulAct)". ColorfulAct aims to establish the building blocks of physical intelligence parallel to nodes and connections to artificial intelligence. We will develop distributed and addressable robotic actuating materials that demonstrate multifunctionality through the broad bandwidth of light.
The Robotic Materials group headed by Prof. Hedan Bai at Department of Materials was established in October 2023. We are an international and interdisciplinary team of material scientists, roboticists, engineers and chemists with a passion for futuristic robotics. We take a bottom-up approach to robotics and develop soft materials and devices that would enable unusual form and unconventional functions for broader robotic applications.
Job description
Track 1: Fiber-based soft optical actuator
Design and fabrication of high-performance soft optical actuator
Design, modeling, and scalable manufacturing of miniature, highly integrated fiber actuator
Demonstration of multifunctional soft robotic systems
Track 2: Soft optical actuator and network
Design and fabrication of high-performance soft optical actuator
Design, modeling, and fabrication of soft optical network for light multiplexing
System-level demonstrations where distributed actuation enables new robotic functions
Track 3: Biomedical soft robot with light
Design and synthesis of biocompatible soft materials for high-performance optical actuation
Design and fabrication of minimally invasive soft robotic devices (surgerical tools/implants)
Proof-of-concept demonstrations in medical robotics applications
Track 4: Soft robotic design with distributed addressable actuators
Design, modeling, and fabrication of 3D soft robots with distributed and addressable actuators
System integration for multifunctionality and reconfigurability
Demonstrate these robotic funtions in real world applications
All tracks:
Supervise master/bachelor students
Teaching assistant for the robotic materials class
Profile
Must haves for postdocs (all tracks):
PhD degree in Materials Science, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering or related field from a top university.
Strong experimental background with documented achievements (publications, patents, prototypes, competitions) in soft actuators, devices, robotic materials, or soft/biomedical robotic systems.
Ability to independently lead research projects and mentor junior researchers.
Strong communication skills to collaborate across disciplines.
Must haves for PhD (all tracks):
A master's degree and outstanding academic record from a top university in Materials Science, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering or related field
Demonstrated research experience in soft actuators, optics, materials design, or biomedical robotics.
Excellent problem-solving abilities and a passion for interdisciplinary research.
Preferred expertise:
Track 1: Advanced experience in fiber manufacturing or functional fiber integration; microfabrication.
Track 2: Background in optics and experience with soft optical devices; microfabrication.
Track 3: Skills in polymer/biomaterial synthesis and characterization for robotic applications.
Track 4: Advanced experience in soft robotic design with a high level of integration for multifunctionality.
We offer
Competitive salary according to ETH standards (fully funded, full-time, fixed term position)
An interdisciplinary, international, and diverse team of talents and a stimulating, vibrant, collaborative group
Strong connections with academic, industrial, and clinical partners in materials science, robotics, and healthcare.
Curious? So are we.
We look forward to receiving your application with the following documents as a single PDF:
A cover letter indicating which track you are applying for (Track 1/2/3/4, or a combination)
CV
Publication list with a few sentences highlighting representative works
Contact details of two referees
For PhD applicants: transcripts of academic records
Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis until the positions are filled. The preferred start date is December 1st, 2025, and it is flexible. Further information should be directed to Prof. Hedan Bai at hedan.bai@mat.ethz.ch. All applications should be submitted through the official portal, and applications through emails will not be considered.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Send job
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Postdoc (f/m/d) Stability Modelling of Perovskite-Silicon Tandem Solar Cells
Berlin
Research assistant (m/f/d) in the field of physics, medical physics, physical engineering
Berlin (DE)
Scientist (f_m_x) – Numerical modelling of ocean tides for satellite gravimetry
Potsdam
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software