I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
CNET/Jeffrey Hazelwood
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
Universal Orlando Resort's Epic Universe is the latest, biggest step in our favorite things spanning imaginary worlds, from movies to video games to theme parks.
Scott Stein Editor at Large I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future. Expertise VR and AR | Gaming | Metaverse technologies | Wearable tech | Tablets Credentials Nearly 20 years writing about tech, and over a decade reviewing wearable tech, VR, and AR products and apps
See full bio
Scott Stein
May 24, 2025
5:00 a.m. PT 23 min read
Passing through a green warp pipe, I see a colorful mushroom kingdom spreading out in front of me. Almost.
Headset pressed to my face, volume up, I'm actually watching the Super Mario Bros. movie in Apple's Vision Pro from a room in my house, the screen stretched out in 3D.
But I'm feeling a little emotional, sort of a visceral thrill, like a memory. That's because the film's blending with my memories of being at Universal Studios' Epic Universe theme park a few weeks ago, when I was walking around an actual physical Mushroom Kingdom, passing through a real and very large green warp pipe -- but in Orlando, Florida.
In the park, it's all walls I can touch, blocks I can tap. Coming back to watch the movie again, in 3D, it now feels a little bit like coming home.
Imaginary worlds are expanding… both in my brain, and in the virtual and physical realms. It's happening in movies, in games, in VR and in places like Epic Universe, the biggest new theme park in the US in 20 years.
All these immersive worlds are tapping into universes we already have somewhat mapped out in our minds, and by mapping them out even further, creators are laying emotional groundwork for staying more deeply connected in the future.
I'm obsessed with immersive technologies and write extensively about them at CNET; I've been reviewing VR and AR headsets and games for over a decade now. But I'm finding that physical places -- like theme parks -- can fuel our memories, too, and they begin to blend in strange ways. And that's very much by design. We're living in a hyper-connected state of entertainment, and Epic Universe just feels like the latest, biggest step.
"The thirst for things that are live, things that are unpredictable, has only increased now that we're getting all of these franchise-based experiences out there," says Kathryn Yu, co-founder of the Immersive Experience Institute in Los Angeles. "Otherwise, that IP is just a thing that you stream that happens to other people in a little box. The next logical conclusion is, well, I would love to go there."
The vast new world of Epic Universe is a lot to take in, even without the crowds there. I visited twice ahead of its opening, intensely curious about the experiences and the technology and what it would all add up to. I saw the future, and also the past. And what I experienced through a frenzied day was that the details, and surprises, were everywhere.
This was my journey there, in the moment itself and remembered from a distance, filtered through the nostalgia that movies, games and immersive tech fill me with now as I look back. I'm going to walk you through what I encountered and put it all into perspective.
In this article:
A past full of portals
Into the portals: Celestial Park
Super Nintendo World
How to Train Your Dragon - Isle of Berk
Wizarding World of Harry Potter - Ministry of Magic
Dark Universe
The future beyond Epic
Warp pipes into your home
A past full of portals
Theme parks have been imagining other worlds for years. Disneyland, which dreamed of a series of worlds visited via connected pathways starting from a central hub -- a "hub and spokes" model that's mirrored in most major theme parks now -- opened way back in 1955. But in the last couple of decades, the ante has been upped, and upped again.
CNET/Zooey LiaoParks have gotten more theme-immersive over time: Universal opened Islands of Adventure in Orlando in 1999, where it created mini lands based on franchises like Jurassic Park, Marvel, Dr. Seuss and Harry Potter.
Disney's Animal Kingdom, also in Florida, started with a theme around animals from various continents. It added Pandora in 2017, a section made to feel like you're walking around the alien world from James Cameron's Avatar movies. Disney also has a Toy Story land at Hollywood Studios, opened in 2018, Star Wars-themed lands in both its California and Florida parks that opened in 2019 and Avengers Campus, which opened at Disneyland in 2021.
In a sense, Epic Universe in Orlando is a park full of these extreme-themed locations, connected like magic portals. Four big places, four familiar and deep wells of movie memories to draw from: Nintendo, How to Train Your Dragon, Harry Potter and classic Universal monsters.
Of course, these particular themes are in areas where new movies, games and shows are emerging constantly. A live-action How to Train Your Dragon movie arrives this summer; the Nintendo Switch 2 launches in June; there's a new Harry Potter series for HBO Max that's in the works. These are no accidents. On the other hand, if you have no connection to those intellectual properties, then you might not feel the need to visit.
"It becomes kind of a double-edged sword, because you have folks who really love a franchise and will definitely buy a ticket if you're featuring that franchise," says Yu of the Immersive Experience Institute. "And then you have folks who may not be so hot on that, and you still need to appeal to them."
"For an immersive spectacle to work, it's really got to be all encompassing ... there's a whole art to path making."
Noah Nelson, founder of the immersive entertainment site No Proscenium
Is there a limit to the immersive theming? Disney hit a wall with Galactic Starcruiser, a multiday self-contained hotel experience that opened in 2022 but closed a year later, something that was aiming high but was way too expensive and too immersive to appeal to many people, not to mention badly timed during a pandemic. Bridget Carey, CNET editor at large and theme park expert, who visited Epic Universe with me last month and again at the park's grand opening, experienced the ill-fated Galactic Starcruiser firsthand and felt it was a blend of theme park and video game, but it was an experience that locked you into a commitment -- both of time and price.
Large-scale immersive theater experiences aren't always successful, either: Life and Trust, a massive multilevel New York theater event designed to be a spiritual follow-up to the decade-plus run of Sleep No More, closed after only nine months.
Yet these types of projects show where immersiveness in parks could expand.
"The Starcruiser experience didn't just lean into sci-fi tech for a Star Wars vibe. What made it impressive was the improvisational actors that made the sets and effects more transportive," Carey says. "Universal also is weaving that ingredient into Epic, and I was surprised by the number of human character actors we saw in each land -- helping make those robotic dragons and magical creatures have emotional connections with guests."
What's different with Epic compared to how theme parks have already been evolving? In some ways, not as much as you'd think. But it's the more intense focus on immersion, combined with the portals that become the entry gates, that feel new. Universal's marketing is all about wanting you to feel like you're teleporting into these places. (Also, the new rides are a whole lot of fun.)
The portal gates are made to feel like they're constructed intentionally, waiting for you to make the leap. And I've felt that portal feeling many times before, at home: in VR, where jumping to other worlds almost feels like a ritual -- laying out a play space, opening an app, stepping through.
All right. Here we go.
Into the portals
Celestial Park
The entrance to Epic Universe begins with a portal. And it has portals all the way through, to the individual subworlds, and even to worlds within those worlds. It's the theme to the whole park.
The entrance is the biggest portal of all, called the "Chronos," and it looks sort of like a stargate. It's also just a familiar entrance gate, adorned with symbols to the worlds that await inside,  something of a steampunk galactic theme.
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNETInside, things are strangely sedate. The first "hub world," Celestial Park, is lovely, beautifully landscaped and chill. So chill that you might wonder where the park excitement is hiding. The gardens and vaguely retrofuture architecture feels a bit like the Star Wars planet Naboo, or even the front part of Epcot that used to be called Future World.
There are some rides, but just a few. There's an ornate domed carousel, and an interactive water fountain. There's also the park's best roller coaster, a massive twin beast called Stardust Racers, where two trains appear to race as they barrel roll over each other.
The dual coaster has a design that feels both inspired by the lore of an Atlantis lost world and fantasies of Jules Verne. Look closely and you can find an Easter egg: the flux capacitor from Back to the Future -- a Universal property that used to have its own ride -- flickers on the back of each coaster car. There's no promise of time travel, but the ride accelerates to speeds that feel as intense as Velocicoaster, Universal's notorious Jurassic World-themed ride.
Celestial Park feels like a world between worlds. It's the place where the portals to every other world live. Celestial Park's got a lot of good food, relaxing restaurants and calming fountains. I could see this being the place where Universal has future festivals, pop-up experiences. It's also a centering space, a reset point, a rest stop between dives into other worlds. It clears your mind before you head into the next hyper-immersive place.
"The future of the attractions industry isn't one-size-fits-all. It's about creating moments that feel personal, unforgettable and emotionally resonant, regardless of the scale."
Jakob Wahl, president and CEO of IAAPA
Are centering places like this key to the future of more intense immersive experiences? In my early days of going to VR installations, there was a big focus on the onboarding process, as well as a decompression space where you'd be able to rest and be in your own thoughts for a while. The more stimulation we have, the more we need a way to remove ourselves from it.  "For an immersive spectacle to work, it's really got to be all encompassing, but that also means what's on the outside needs to be thought through, too," says Noah Nelson, founder of the immersive entertainment site No Proscenium. "There's a whole art to path making, and while I'm not sure if we need to go the full 'chill room at the rave' route, there is something to be said for an 'ontological crossfade' from one 'reality' into another."
All around the edges of Celestial Park, golden gates beckon with statues stacked on top. These are the other worlds, and entering them, you definitely feel the strong crossfade.
Super Nintendo World
Coin fountains and castle decorations surround Nintendo's portal, and the moment you head in, you ride an escalator. It's a warp pipe, with light beams shooting off to the sides. Then you're inside a familiar castle, Mushroom Kingdom portraits on the walls. Exiting it, you're looking out at a multilevel vista of moving blocks, Yoshis and bouncing creatures: It looks just like a level map from a Super Mario game.
It's made to overwhelm and dazzle you. The paths seem to go everywhere: down, up, to the sides and who knows where else. You descend into it, sinking into the immersion.
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNETSuper Nintendo World already exists in Universal's Tokyo park and in Universal Studios Hollywood, but Orlando's layout is larger and extends through an additional portal tunnel into a subworld of Donkey Kong that's full of palm trees, banana piles and a mine cart coaster that runs in and out of an ancient temple. That moment in the Super Mario Bros. movie where Mario and Peach go to Donkey Kong's kingdom and see all the looping paths everywhere? It's sort of that feeling, but smaller.
If you buy a Power-Up Band ($40) from Universal, you can pair it with your phone and bop it against blocks and surfaces everywhere in the land, unlocking scores in mini games you can track on the Universal app. The bands also work as tappable NFC-enabled Amiibo for the Nintendo Switch, which gives unlockable extras. I keep thinking that Nintendo could expand that park-to-Switch relationship further, maybe even with the Switch 2.
There aren't that many rides here, but they are memorable. A calmer Yoshi ride moves slowly around the Mushroom Kingdom's edges, more of a young kid's ride or even a way to take in the vistas without walking. And Mario Kart: Bowser's Challenge is also surprisingly slow moving for a racing ride, but it's because you wear augmented reality head visors, tethered to your car, that float images of video game opponents all around you. The goal is to shoot flying turtle shells at opponents by turning your wheel and pressing buttons. The best parts feel like you're almost living inside the game itself -- a dark tunnel where Rainbow Road floats.
The tech feels old now compared to home headsets like the Apple Vision Pro or Meta's Quest 3 -- it is, since it was made for similar rides back in 2021 -- but it's also the only AR ride in this park, or nearly anywhere else. And I think future rides could go a lot further. It reminds me instantly of the remote-control Mario Kart toys that Nintendo made to work with an AR-enabled Switch game called Mario Kart Live, which I drove around my home during the pandemic in 2020. Switch 2 games and connected toys could in the future further expand these rides.
The Donkey Kong Mine Cart Madness ride is the best of the bunch: The coaster's hidden ride mechanism makes it seem like you're on cartoonishly broken tracks, but you're not. The cart flies off them, jumping gaps, leaping into space, making what seem like impossible turns, and it's full of surprises. It's not loaded with visible tech: Its magic tricks are subtler.
"The thirst for things that are live, things that are unpredictable, has only increased now that we're getting all of these franchise-based experiences."
Kathryn Yu, co-founder of the Immersive Experience Institute
There are little corners to explore around Super Nintendo World, and even a series of key-collecting minigames -- some of them in little cave-like rooms to explore -- leading to a final game showdown with Bowser Jr. where your shadow jumps, changes sizes, and casts fireballs. There are other extra Power-Up Band challenges and little Nintendo Easter eggs, too. And still, I want more. I want the Power-Up Band minigames to feel even more game-like. I want crazy levels of extra things to find. Maybe that can still come. Nintendo's rumored to make an expansion to Super Nintendo World, possibly adding a Zelda-themed Hyrule area to time with a future Zelda movie Universal is releasing in 2027. Pokemon is also a rumored expansion focus.
The possibilities seem endless, but the cost and planning of building areas that feel timeless and popular enough to work is a whole other challenge. This space filled with Mario and Donkey Kong echoes lots of existing games, and probably games to come. When I played Donkey Kong Bananza and Mario Kart World on the Switch 2, I couldn't help thinking about Super Nintendo World all over again. And that's clearly the point: They reflect each other.
A Photo Tour Inside Epic Universe
+28 More
See all photos
Franchises are now made to bleed between film, TV, game and theme park. It's a cross-media world, and our physical presence in a park, playing a role in experiencing something first-hand, can end up making all the other pieces feel more emotionally important. The same way I watch movies about the UK nostalgically after I've traveled there, I watch the Super Mario Bros. movie and play Super Mario games after I visited Epic Universe.
"Epic Universe is a powerful example of how immersive storytelling, cutting-edge technology, and bold vision are shaping the future of themed entertainment," says Jakob Wahl, president and CEO of IAAPA, the Global Association for the Attractions Industry. "It reflects a growing demand from guests for deeply integrated, multisensory experiences that transport them into entirely new worlds with characters from some of the world's most popular movies and video games."
How to Train Your Dragon: Isle of Berk
Entering the portal into the world of How to Train Your Dragon, you're greeted with an expanse of water, massive carved statues and bridges beyond. Wide skies, flying rides: This is the Isle of Berk, and it's full of dragons, water and people roleplaying as characters from the films. It's the most wide-open feeling world in the park, inviting you to seemingly wander in any direction. It's the biggest, and has the most rides and shows, too.
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNETI didn't grow up with these movies, but I could see the crowds who did, and waited in line for a chance to pet a robotic Toothless dragon in a stable. Chances to meet dragons are everywhere: One, puppeted by somebody inside, proudly struts around, guided by Viking handlers.
In one corner, if you're patient, a baby dragon emerges for photo opps: This is Dart, a self-powered robot that's so convincingly animated that it hypnotized me in my tracks -- it has a feel similar to Boston Dynamics' robot dogs, but turned into cartoon form. Disney isn't putting free-roaming robots into its parks yet, although it's test-driving Nvidia-powered BD-0 droids that should be making more appearances in Star Wars: Galaxy's Edge eventually.
"The BDX droids are just the beginning," Kyle Laughlin, senior vice president at Walt Disney Imagineering, said when the droids were shown off at an Nvidia conference in March, referring to AI advances to come via Google DeepMind and Nvidia. "This collaboration will allow us to create a new generation of robotic characters that are more expressive and engaging than ever before."
Meanwhile, Universal is already doing that with its little Dart appearances. Dart shows the future: animated and free-walking, and acting alongside real human actors that make it feel like the world has come alive. It's one of three robot dragons that alternate appearances. Drone dragons will wheel overhead, too -- but not during either of my visits during previews and at park opening. The dragon drones seem like they're still having some issues, and we also found that the robot dragon appearances sometimes were hard to find. The more complex the tech magic, the greater the chances for failure. But there are plenty of other dragons to see. Robotic dragon tails poke out of nests. One ice-breathing dragon pokes its head out from behind a wall. One sleeps in a corner. Another pokes its head out above one of the shops. The dragon moments continue in a lavish show called The Untrainable Dragon, which blends screens and actors and dragons that look like a combination of puppeting and robotics. Toothless wheels overhead during the show, and the emotional scale of it all made me cry.
Franchises are now made to bleed between film, TV, game and theme park. It's a cross-media world, and our physical presence in a park, playing a role in experiencing something first-hand, can end up making all the other pieces feel more emotionally important. In this land, the rides almost feel secondary. A wheeling, tame sky ride called Dragon Racer's Rally was fine for kids, maybe not worth it for adults. A water-blasting boat ride called Fyre Drill was fun, but similar to a ride I've tried at New York's Legoland. But the family coaster here, called Hiccup's Wing Gliders, is the best thing to try: It's fast, zips over water and around the island, and has other dragons to see. It's a story experience as much as a thrill ride, like Hagrid's Magical Creatures coaster at Universal's Islands of Adventure. Berk doesn't have interactive features like Power-Up Bands or wands, but it has plenty of other merch. It's also, I think, about just feeling happy and free. It feels loose, like a festival. And maybe more of a Disney-type place than any other part of Universal.
"The sheer number of dragon animatronics exposed to the outdoors was impressive -- both in the ride and peppered across the landscape. But what really amps up the emotion and whimsy is the music from John Powell's soundtrack, which got me bawling happy tears on the coaster," says Carey. "Universal leans hard into movie scores throughout each portal to activate your emotions quickly -- which stands out from Disney's choice to use more subtle, natural-sounding background tracks. But I think that's where Epic got it right. People want the music to have that connection."
What I remember most from this world, as I portaled back out, was the dragons, whether they were drones, robots or puppets. All of the dragons.
Wizarding World of Harry Potter: Ministry of Magic
The Harry Potter portal gate leads into a subway exit, with a wall full of French posters. Around a corner, there's a massive arch. And through that arch is a wide city street, shops everywhere, hints of a skyline in the distance. The Ministry of Magic's recreation of 1920s Paris hits me on a grander, more detailed scale than any of the other worlds.
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNETThe buildings loom high. The city's farther-off attractions poke above rooftops. It feels like we've teleported. Take the previous Wizarding World areas at Universal and imagine them even bigger, and you have this.
Windows in storefronts are interactive, if you have a wand you've purchased from a shop. Wave it in a certain pattern to make magical things happen. Finding these windows is a little game in itself. Some windows have interactive paintings that speak to you, too: I had a whole conversation with three of them. If you buy a fancier, light-up buzzing wand, you can activate other hidden locations. I made a white furry Demiguise mysteriously appear from a seemingly empty window. In the middle of the city square is a circus tent, hosting Cirque Arcanus, a live theater spectacle that looks like it's impossibly tucked into this tent, with an immersive show blending magic tricks and screens. Deeper inside, the main show seems to take place inside the suitcase of Newt Scamander from the Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them movies. Different creatures emerge from shadows and dimensional windows, made of a mix of high-res displays, puppets, robotics and stage magic.
Down one end of the Paris streets is the only ride: a showstopping experience called the Battle for the Ministry of Magic. We pass through a MetroFloo station, entering yet another portal that flashes green smoke as we end up on the other side in a massive recreation of the Ministry of Magic from the Harry Potter movies, but now in modern-day London. I don't realize until I get home days later and rewatch the movies how spot-on this recreation is: Much like Disney's Rise of the Resistance ride, it feels like you've been beamed right into a film.
The Ministry of Magic ride itself, down endless corridors of talking portraits and interactive details you might linger on during what could be seriously long waits, is an elevator you sit in as it leaps and glides through a journey involving Harry, Hermione, Ron, Dolores Umbridge and things that seem real and virtual at the same time.
"Universal leans hard into movie scores throughout each portal to activate your emotions quickly ... People want the music to have that connection."
Bridget Carey, CNET editor at large
Universal says this ride has a whole new mechanism technology -- it reminds me of both the Gringotts and Forbidden Journey rides at Universal's other parks, but more like you're watching a magical theater experience unfold. It's the most eye-popping ride in the park.
I wished I could floo-hop over to the other Wizarding World sections at Universal's other parks. You can't: This park is miles from the others, and misses out on the magic train connection.
Dark Universe
Through another portal that looks embedded in a gnarled mountain of rocks and roots, we pass into a cemetery, tombstones everywhere, leading to a haunted-looking European village. In some ways the most intimate of the four worlds, this lurking gothic zone, themed to house Universal's classic monsters, feels like a permanent version of Universal's Halloween Horror-themed events.
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNETThe path snakes around a series of rides and taverns, with details like menacing statues and a cart full of body parts in bottles. You'll see actors here that play various roles: a mad violinist plays a tune and spins through the square. The Invisible Man peers through bandages and insults your intelligence. At The Burning Blade Tavern, a pub at the end of the path that has a burning windmill above it, actors play the roles of monster hunters. Ygor sometimes walks around and cracks jokes. The biggest draw here is a decaying mansion that houses Monsters Unchained: The Frankenstein Experiment, a ride that throws all of Universal's monsters into animatronic form. The ride's built on the same arm structure as Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey: You feel like you're being propelled through rooms where werewolves, the Creature From the Black Lagoon, Frankenstein's monster and Dracula battle each other. The vibe is more video game and comic-infused than something truly scary. Still, it's the most animatronics-filled experience in the park -- Frankenstein's monster towers above me in the preshow room, stepping forward as if he's about to walk right toward us.
One other roller coaster, Curse of the Werewolf, is weirdly lacking in any actual werewolves, and felt tamer than I expected. And my visit, during the day, didn't seem to fit the horror style of the surroundings.
At night, and with plenty of role-playing actors around, Dark Universe could take on whole new dimensions. This part of the park feels like the biggest leap into an unknown, and could use even more building out to add in extra thrills.
But what I felt the most in this subdued, ominous-feeling part of the park was the promise of roleplay. What if I stayed longer and tried to follow the violinist? What if the Invisible Man tried to recruit me for a mission? What does Ygor have to tell me if I seek him out? If I go to the pubs and lurking corners, will I find more mysteries to unravel? As a doorway to the oldest part of Universal's history, could Dark Universe be a permanent way to explore the weird horrors of Halloween all year long? I'd like to stick around here for dinner after dark and see what happens.
The future beyond Epic
After diving into several days at the park, letting the dust settle in my mind, I wondered about what Epic Universe represents for the future of where amusement parks and immersive entertainment are heading, and what it could also mean for all the games, movies, shows and toys that connect to them.
Theme parks are conceived years ahead of time, slowly emerging into completion. Epic Universe is here in 2025, but its ideas were birthed back in 2019 and intended for 2023, delayed because of the pandemic. What we're seeing now is the bleeding edge of large-scale theme parks, but not necessarily a sign of what the future holds.
It's hard to keep large-scale things in business, so I often think about the future of immersive entertainment as coming from smaller productions. There have been a ton of contained immersive ticketed attractions in the last decade that give the I've-been-to-a-park experience, often at a lower cost.
My mind turns to Meow Wolf, a growing collective that makes hallucinatory installations that have mysteries and parts that unlock extras on a phone app. One of Meow Wolf's next locations, in New York, looks to add even more mixed reality and interaction (it's themed like an interdimensional arcade).
Meow Wolf's founders say that smaller indoor spaces can build out higher levels of next-level interaction beyond what Universal or Disney can do.
"We see them as sort of scratching the surface," Meow Wolf's Vince Kladubek tells me, speaking about parks like Epic Universe. "When you have a dedicated indoor space, you have far more possibilities than when you're in an outdoor theme park land. We're really honing in on the capabilities that are now possible when you have a fixed indoor space in bringing this mixed-reality experience forward."
"Epic Universe is a powerful example of how immersive storytelling, cutting-edge technology and bold vision are shaping the future of themed entertainment."
Jakob Wahl, president and CEO of IAAPA
And while these smaller interactive experiences emerge, it's rare to see a completely new theme park open in the US -- the last one was Disney's California Adventure in 2001. Disney and Universal have been locked in a back-and-forth competition for decades, one-upping each other with new immersive ideas, licensing deals and park upgrades, but Disney has no new US park planned.  Instead, Disney is focused on specific park upgrades -- a Monsters, Inc. area for Hollywood Studios, new Cars and Villains lands for Magic Kingdom, an Encanto and Indiana Jones expansion to Animal Kingdom, more Avengers rides at California Adventure. New parks are opening overseas, though: Universal has a UK park in development, and Disney just announced a deal to open a theme park in Abu Dhabi.
Universal's next steps beyond Epic are already in the works, but in lots of smaller pieces. A horror-themed permanent Universal attraction, called Universal Horror Unleashed, opens in Las Vegas this August. Its four haunted houses should feel like the ones in Universal's seasonal horror night fests, but year-round. Universal also has a kid-focused, smaller park that's opening in Frisco, Texas next year.
"We're seeing innovation flourish across the spectrum -- from large-scale destinations like Epic Universe to smaller, experimental spaces like Meow Wolf, and temporary activations such as traveling multimedia installations," says IAAPA CEO Wahl. "These varied formats show that the appetite for immersive experiences is expanding in exciting directions."
What's most intriguing to me is Universal's expansion into seasonal theater-type installations: Fan Fest Nights in its LA location added temporary D&D and Star Trek experiences which encourage more active roleplaying from guests, almost like mini versions of what Disney's Starcruiser offered.
"It's clear that a lot of the people who are turning up for Fan Fest are ready to play," says Nelson. "Universal has been training their guests to play along for a decade now. There's a generation that has grown up playing along with the parks, and that genie is not going back in the bottle."
Epic Universe is certainly going to get more portals to more immersive experiences, but what if some of those also end up being seasonally cycled? Could temporary builds make their way into the future of how parks get conceived?
Warp pipes into your home
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNETSome experimentation is already being done with extending theme park experiences at home. Disney's ILM Immersive division, a group specializing in VR, AR and other new media projects, has made several AR and VR apps already that blend into existing franchises like Marvel and Star Wars. One of them -- Star Wars: Tales from the Galaxy's Edge -- created worlds that bordered right up against the imaginary boundaries of Disney's Galaxy's Edge park attraction.
Disney hasn't made any other park apps that directly link to its real-world spaces via VR or AR, but the game's director, Jose Perez III, said to me back in 2020 that "There's going to be a little bit of crossover, things that we make may show up there, and things they've made clearly show up in our thing."
"That's the nerd heaven crazy stuff, where you're making a thing and wondering, is this stuff going to show up at Disneyland?" Perez said. "For us, it's what can we do that you couldn't just do in the theme park?"
And then there's Nintendo. The arrival of Epic Universe and the Nintendo Switch 2 within weeks of each other looks like more than a happy coincidence, but this isn't the first time the gaming company has experimented with immersive ideas. The company's cardboard-folding Nintendo Labo felt to me like a playground in a box when I set it up years ago.
Nintendo is expert in producing surprising toys and extras that seem to break into the real world: collectible Amiibo figurines that scan into your games, or fitness balance boards and exercise rings that make you bounce and dance. Mario Kart Live: Home Circuit, which arrived during the pandemic, turned my home into a toy race track that I could look at in enhanced augmented reality on my Nintendo Switch screen, making a Mario Kart course come to life through the legs of my dining room furniture. Nintendo's Alarmo clock, released last year, extends the immersion further: I can wake up to Nintendo sounds now.
Will Nintendo make more of this magic feel like it's crossing between theme parks, games and movies? It's always impossible to predict, but the Power-Up Bands from the park already work as Amiibo.
With the upgraded Switch 2 arriving soon, Nintendo's positioning itself more as an entertainment company than a gaming company, or, at the least, it's pressing towards a crossover. With the success of the Super Mario Bros. movie, more sequels seem like a given. And, with those, other Nintendo theme park worlds: Zelda, Pokemon and more.
"I was surprised by the number of human character actors we saw in each land -- helping make those robotic dragons and magical creatures have emotional connections with guests."
Bridget Carey, CNET Editor at Large
The souvenirs I bring back from theme parks sit on my shelves at home, like totems. The Wizarding World wands. The Power Up Bands. I'll pick them up sometimes, imagining what could happen if I could wave them and make them do things like they do in the parks. Would it be worth trying to make that happen?
I couldn't help but notice Universal playing with areas in the park where you'd play games that use your phone. Super Nintendo World and the updated Wizarding World wands interact and pair with your phones this way. Disney leans on its phone app very heavily in its parks, too.
I like not being distracted, though. Even though I take tons of photos and videos, and use my phone to order food or get stressed out about ride wait times, I'm happiest when I can just try to relax and be there and look around without any mediation at all. I like how Meow Wolf's phone app for its installations works: activate it before you enter, then wander around. Places trigger Bluetooth beacons that unlock extras, called "memories," that you can dig into later. Your experience comes home.
"The future of the attractions industry isn't one-size-fits-all," says Wahl. "It's about creating moments that feel personal, unforgettable and emotionally resonant, regardless of the scale."
Those portals become memories without any tech at all, making the connected films and games seem even more special. It's best to make the magic feel invisible. I can already feel my worlds crossing over more and more, between real and virtual.
I want to go back again. And I guess that's the whole point, isn't it?
Visual Designer | Zooey LiaoArt Director | Jeff HazelwoodCreative Director | Viva TungVideo | Numi PrasarnVideo Editor | JD ChristisonProject Manager | Danielle RamirezEditor | Corinne ReichertDirector of Content | Jonathan Skillings
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.