Vice President JD Vance
Menu
President Donald J. Trump
The
White House
Search
News
Articles
Briefings & Statements
Fact Sheets
Presidential Actions
Executive Orders
Nominations & Appointments
Presidential Memoranda
Proclamations
Remarks
Administration
Donald J. Trump
JD Vance
Melania Trump
Usha Vance
The Cabinet
Media
Video Library
Gallery
Live News
White House Wire
Issues
History
America 250
The Founders Museum
America’s Founding Fathers
Moments That Made Us
Road to Revolution: A Timeline
Signers of the Declaration of Independence
Our Government
Get in Touch
Contact
Visit
Internships
X
Instagram
Facebook
Search for:
Press Enter to Search
Administration
JD Vance
Vice President of the United States
Vice President JD Vance was born and raised in Middletown, Ohio, a once flourishing American manufacturing town where Ohioans could live content, middle-class lives on single incomes. Over time, many of those good jobs disappeared, and JD’s family suffered the effects along with many others.
Growing up, JD faced a challenging childhood marked by financial struggles and family instability. His mother’s battle with addiction and his father’s absence left a void that his grandparents filled with unwavering support and guidance. His grandma, Mamaw, who was the proud owner of 19 handguns, provided the tough love he needed to stay on the straight and narrow.
After graduating from Middletown High School, JD served his country honorably by enlisting in the United States Marine Corps, serving for four years with a tour in Iraq. Upon returning home, JD used the GI Bill to attend The Ohio State University, where he excelled academically and earned a spot at Yale Law School.
JD met his lovely wife, Usha, during their time in law school together. Today, they reside in Cincinnati, Ohio and are proud parents to three beautiful children. After law school, JD found success as an investor in startups across the Midwest, and as the author of the bestselling memoir “Hillbilly Elegy,” which gave a voice to millions of forgotten Americans across the heartland.
In 2022, JD Vance took his commitment to his country to the national stage and was elected to the U.S. Senate. As a Senator, he was a champion for issues such as securing our southern border, revitalizing American manufacturing, and fighting for the prosperity of working-class families across the country.
In 2024, President Donald J. Trump extended JD the incredible honor of asking him to serve as the Vice-Presidential Nominee for the Republican Party. JD looks forward to serving with President Trump over the next four years as they work diligently to Make America Great Again.
Learn more about Second Lady Usha Vance here.
News
Wire
Issues
Contact
Visit
EOP
Administration
Gallery
Video Library
America 250
Founding Fathers
The Signers
Subscribe to The White House newsletter
Please leave blank.
Text POTUS to 45470 to receive updates
The White House
1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW
Washington, DC 20500
X
Instagram
Facebook
WH.GOV
Copyright
Privacy
Back to top