Changing these 7 settings on my Samsung phone greatly extended its battery life | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Changing these 7 settings on my Samsung phone greatly extended its battery life
Your Samsung phone already offers solid battery life, but a few smart setting tweaks can help it last even longer.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 12:45 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Samsung's Galaxy smartphones are some of the best Android phones available today, thanks to their responsive and feature-rich software. But most Samsung phones -- especially the flagships like the Galaxy S25 Ultra, Galaxy Z Fold 7, and Z Flip 7 -- come with over-the-top features that you might not use daily. If your new Galaxy phone isn't lasting an entire day on a single charge, there are ways to make the most of what you have without hindering the user experience. Also: The best Samsung phones to buy in 2025Here are seven ways to maximize the battery life on your Galaxy phone. Fret not -- I won't be Captain Obvious over here and recommend reducing the screen resolution or using your phone at a lower refresh rate. The recommendations on this list should bring quality-of-life improvements while maximizing your handset's efficiency. Read on.1. Use Dark Mode
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETMost Samsung phones feature AMOLED displays, which can control individual pixels. So, when you use a dark theme or dark wallpaper, the part of the screen that needs to stay black won't turn on those pixels. This, in turn, reduces screen power usage and makes your battery last slightly longer. How to: Open the Settings app > Display. You'll get two cards for Light and Dark. Tap on the Dark option. Alternatively, you can change the system wallpaper and continue using the light theme, but this will not have the same effect on battery as turning on the Dark mode.2. Toggle on Adaptive BrightnessThis setting ideally comes activated out of the box, but some people turn it off because it's not always accurate. However, over the years, Samsung's ambient light sensor has improved in quality. Your Galaxy phone can reliably detect the lighting in your environment to automatically adjust the screen luminosity. This ensures your display is more efficient and isn't brighter than needed.Also: Own a Samsung smartwatch? This 30-second fix will keep it running like newHow to: Go to the Settings app > Display and toggle on Adaptive Brightness. It should work in most environments, but if need be, you can adjust the brightness with a swipe down from the Quick Settings panel.3. Locate and force stop or uninstall power-draining appsSamsung phones come with a lot of preinstalled apps like Facebook, Microsoft 365, OneDrive, and a bunch of Samsung and Google apps. Identify the ones you don't need, and uninstall or force disable them so they don't run in the background. For example, not everyone needs the Samsung Smart TV app or OneDrive. When I set up a new Galaxy phone, I uninstall those two and others, including Facebook, Outlook, Microsoft 365, Tutor, and more.How to: Tap and hold the app you want to uninstall. A pop-up menu will appear. Tap Uninstall. As a result, none of these non-required apps will use your battery.4. Identify power-draining apps
Kerry Wan/ZDNETCertain apps consume more power depending on your location, 5G connectivity, and background usage. Samsung lets you identify these power-hogging apps to help you minimize non-essential battery usage.How to: On your Galaxy smartphone, you can identify power-draining apps by going to Settings > Battery and device care > Battery > Background usage limits and choosing which apps you want to turn off. 5. Download offline content before travelIf you take the same route every day or listen to the same playlists and podcasts, downloading that content offline is a good idea. Most streaming apps and Google Maps consume a lot of battery over 5G and LTE. When outdoors, it could also make your handset warm to the touch. You can tackle this with a bit of pre-planning: Download your favorite music or maps over Wi-Fi before you leave home.Also: The Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra was nearly unusable for me - until I downloaded this one appHow to: Go to the streaming apps you want to download content from and follow the in-app steps. For instance, YouTube has a download button on videos, and Spotify lets you download complete playlists.6. Use scheduled Always-On Display
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETI love the Always-On Display (AOD) on my Galaxy S25 Ultra. It has an LTPO display that goes down to 1Hz for efficiency, which is handy for features like AOD. If you have a midrange Galaxy phone with a minimum refresh rate of 60Hz, using AOD might not be as efficient. However, you can be smart with it by scheduling AOD for when it's needed.Also: I bought Samsung's Galaxy Watch Ultra 2025, but I'd recommend this model insteadFor instance, I have it scheduled for 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., so I don't miss any important notifications and have the needed info at my disposal at a glance. How to: Go to Settings > Lock Screen and AOD > Tap on Always On Display > When to show > As scheduled. While you're at it, also turn off the Show lock screen wallpaper within AOD settings.7. Use Performance profileSamsung allows you to choose a performance profile according to your usage. If you don't play games and use your phone primarily for regular tasks like browsing, calling, and the like, you should choose the Light Performance profile over Standard. It will prioritize battery life and cooling over processing speed.How to: Open the Settings app and go to Device care > Performance profile and select Light. This is ideal for average phone users.What to do when my Galaxy phone is low on battery?
Prakhar Khanna/ZDNETThe seven settings above will not hinder your user experience and will retain the best Galaxy phone features. However, if you're out and your phone is low on battery, you should:Turn on Power SavingToggle off data roamingTurn off location servicesSwitch off AOD altogetherAlso: Your Samsung phone has a secret Wi-Fi menu that's incredibly useful - how to access itI recommend turning on these settings when your phone's battery level is under 15% but you're still a few hours away from the charger. The above-mentioned Samsung settings will also help you maximize the battery on your Galaxy phone.Get the morning's top stories in your inbox each day with our Tech Today newsletter.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to clear your Android phone cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)
I changed these 5 settings on my TV to significantly improve the picture quality
Slow Android phone? Changing these 4 settings revitalized my whole system
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use