Mistakes I Made During My First Trip to Vienna - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Travel
I went to Vienna for the first time. 4 mistakes drained my energy and bank account.
By
Joey Hadden
Business Insider's reporter made some mistakes during her first trip to Vienna.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
2025-09-20T12:12:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
I visited Vienna for the first time during a two-week train trip through Europe in 2022.
I spent 48 hours in Vienna and left with some regrets that cost me money and time.
I booked the wrong room on a sleeper train and the wrong accommodation in the city center.
Picture this: Your train finally arrives in Vienna, and all you want to do is sleep. It's 7 a.m., and it's been 24 hours since your last snooze.Part of you wants to spend the day exploring the city you traveled so far to visit for just 48 hours. But your body informs you of the reality that you simply can't right now.
That was me in October 2022. My two-night stay in Vienna was a leg of a two-week train trip through four European countries, six cities, and two suburbs.Vienna's blend of fairy-tale flair and unconventional design made it my favorite city of the trip. But I could have saved money, time, and energy if I hadn't made a few poor decisions.
My regrets kept me from making the most of my trip to Vienna.
Booking the wrong room on a sleeper train left me scrambling to find a hotel room at 7 a.m.
The reporter's home for the night aboard a sleeper train in Europe.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
Back to my arrival in Vienna — I hadn't slept because I booked a reclining seat on an overnight train from Berlin.I could have booked a bunk in a shared cabin for the 12-hour ride, but I thought I'd save money by booking the OBB Nightjet train's cheapest accommodation: a seat in a cabin with five other people for $40. I also thought I'd maximize my time by traveling through the night.With minimal legroom, a backpack for a pillow, and a windbreaker for a blanket, I stayed up stirring in my head until morning.Once I left the train station, I went to three random hotels nearby before finding one with an empty room. But to check in at 7 a.m. and leave later than the 11 a.m. check-out, I had to book the room for two nights.Ultimately, booking a seat for an overnight ride cost me about $200 more than the train ticket. And napping all day left me with less time to explore the city."The quality of travel depends not only on the carriages, but also on the route," OBB Nightjet wrote in a statement to Business Insider. "We recommend the sleeper or couchette car for night travel. There is enough space to stretch out. Seated carriages are recommended for shorter journeys."Next time, I'll take their advice and book a bunk for overnight rides.
I wish I'd considered taking a high-speed train during the day.
A high-speed InterCity Express train arrives in Berlin.
NurPhoto/NurPhoto via Getty Images
Since I slept until roughly 5 p.m. on my first day in Vienna, I couldn't help thinking I might as well have taken a morning train.According to Austrian Railways, high-speed InterCity Express trains that run during the day get from Berlin to Vienna in under eight hours. The earliest one arrives in Vienna daily at about 2 p.m., which would have given me three hours back. Plus, I would have had a chance to see the views of the places in between.
Booking the wrong accommodation cost me energy and added stress to my trip.
The Airstream trailer outside Hotel Daniel.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
As I scrolled through Airbnb for a unique accommodation in Vienna before my trip, the luxury Airstream trailer in the parking lot of the boutique Hotel Daniel stood out among the rest. I was surprised to find an accommodation I associated with camping on a busy street in a city.Intrigued by the opportunity to easily explore the city on foot and have an unusual stay, I booked the Airstream for $300 for two nights.On night one, I realized I'd made a mistake. Outdoor sounds bled into the Airstream past bedtime. Honking cars, passing footsteps, and strangers' loud conversations kept me up too late.I also struggled to sleep because I felt exposed. The Airstream was parked in front of the hotel, right next to the street. On the second night, I was startled by pedestrians taking photos in front of the trailer, banging on the door, and attempting to pry it open.A representative for Hotel Daniel told Business Insider that the Airstream can be noisy throughout the night due to its location. A hotel manager added that this was their first complaint of strangers banging on the trailer door and apologized.In the future, I'll book a stay inside a building when staying in city centers.
I shouldn't have tried to squeeze so many sights into a two-day trip.
A busy street in Vienna.
Joey Hadden/Business Insider
I have to give myself credit — I covered a lot of ground in just 48 hours, especially considering how much I slept on day one.I visited multiple 17th-century palaces, frolicked through hedge mazes, and admired street art along the Danube Canal. I traveled from north to south to see the city's most whimsical buildings up close.In the moment, I felt like I was making great use of my limited time, but in reality, I was missing out on in-depth experiences. Hopping from place to place, I didn't have time to go inside any palaces, cathedrals, or museums — I merely viewed their exteriors.Booking a longer trip would have solved this problem, but that's not always possible.If I could have a do-over on my first trip to Vienna, I'd pick one palace and book a tour inside. I'd travel to a couple of whimsical buildings and take time to explore the surrounding blocks. And I'd sit on a bench along the Danube Canal rather than rushing past.
Recommended video
Travel
Lifestyle
Photos
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account