AT&T will take your broken Pixel phone and give you a new Pixel 10 Pro XL free - here's how | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
AT&T will take your broken Pixel phone and give you a new Pixel 10 Pro XL free - here's how
When you trade in your old Google Pixel phone, any year, any condition, you can get the latest Pixel 10 Pro or Pro XL free. Here are the terms.
Written by
Kayla Solino, EditorEditor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 10:21 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETGet a Google Pixel 10 Pro XL free (save $1,250 at AT&T) ZD recommends
3/5 Editor's deal rating View at AT&T Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Apple's new iPhone 17 lineup just dropped, but AT&T has some competitive offers on smartphones from other manufacturers. Case in point: Right now, new and existing customers can get a Google Pixel 10 Pro or Pixel 10 Pro XL free when you trade in your old Pixel phone of any year and any condition. Also: Order the iPhone 17 at AT&T and get up to $1,100 off now - here's howThat's right. Even if it's broken, AT&T will take it. Obviously, ZDNET is aware that nothing is really "free" these days, so let's break down what "free" means in the context of this carrier offer. This offer will net you up to $1,250 off the Pixel 10 Pro XL smartphone (or up to $1,050 off the Pixel 10 Pro), awarded over 36 monthly credits. The limited-time offer is available in select locations or online and requires the activation of a new line or an upgrade of an existing line. So you'll want to check out the full details at AT&T's website. Customers will also pay tax on the full price of the phone and an activation fee of $35 per line. So, yes, you will still owe AT&T money.
ZD recommends
Get a Google Pixel 10 Pro XL free (save $1,250 at AT&T)
View at AT&T ZDNET phone reviewer Kerry Wan tested the Pixel 10 Pro XL in August, and said he was impressed with its capabilities -- so much so that it was given a ZDNET Editors' Choice award shortly after. Also: I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret itThe Pixel 10 Pro series received some impressive AI upgrades, and finally, its own version of MagSafe in the Pixelsnap magnetic charging system. Wan says the Pixel 10 Pro XL is more refined and ergonomic than last year's Pixel 9 Pro series, and features upgrades to the battery as well.
The Google Pixel 10 Pro.  Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET"For longtime Pixel users eyeing an upgrade, both models are a no-brainer -- showcasing Google's best hardware to date and an Android 16 experience that feels tastefully familiar, delightfully playful, and genuinely useful," Wan says. "The Pixel 10 Pro is the way to go for users who prefer a more ergonomic and comfortable mobile experience. If mobile entertainment and fast charging are high on your priority list, consider the Pixel 10 Pro XL. " Trade-in detailsThe offer is valid with the trade-in of any Google Pixel smartphone from any year, in any condition, or an eligible smartphone that has a minimum trade-in value of $35 for up to $1,050 off Pixel 10 Pro and up to $1,250 off Pixel 10 Pro XL. Alternative eligible smartphones include models from OnePlus, Apple, and Samsung, but make sure to check your device eligibility. The offer also requires an unlimited voice and data plan starting at $76 per month before discounts, if you're a new customer with a single line. Existing customers can add to their current wireless plan (if eligible), which may be less. See att.com/unlimited for current unlimited plans. AT&T says the offer and requirements are subject to change at any time and without notice.Looking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.How I rated this deal Obviously, this deal is not really "free," but rather an affordable way for customers to obtain the latest smartphones without paying up front. Carrier offers like this aren't new to the market, and consumers should be familiar with the fine print. In this case, you'll have to be on an eligible plan with AT&T, need to trade in a device (preferably a Pixel one), and you'll have to pay service and activation fees as well as taxes on the phone upfront. Regardless, this AT&T offer is still a great way to upgrade your device ahead of the holiday season, and I've given it a 3/5 editor's deal rating. It's a fairly flexible offer, but select service plans are excluded. When will this deal expire?While many sales events feature deals for a specific length of time, deals are on a limited-time basis, making them subject to expire anytime. ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best offers to help you maximize your savings so you can feel as confident in your purchases as we feel in our recommendations. Our ZDNET team of experts constantly monitors the deals we feature to keep our stories up-to-date. If you missed out on this deal, don't worry -- we're always sourcing new savings opportunities at ZDNET.com.How do we rate deals at ZDNET?We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: I compared both models, and there's a big difference
Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's why
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared the flagship handsets, and there's a winner
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use