Advanced search
MenuMoviesRelease calendarTop 250 moviesMost popular moviesBrowse movies by genreTop box officeShowtimes & ticketsMovie newsIndia movie spotlightTV showsWhat's on TV & streamingTop 250 TV showsMost popular TV showsBrowse TV shows by genreTV newsWatchWhat to watchLatest trailersIMDb OriginalsIMDb PicksIMDb SpotlightFamily entertainment guideIMDb PodcastsAwards & eventsOscarsEmmysToronto Int'l Film FestivalIMDb TIFF Portrait StudioHispanic Heritage MonthSTARmeter AwardsAwards CentralFestival CentralAll eventsCelebsBorn todayMost popular celebsCelebrity newsCommunityHelp centerContributor zonePollsFor industry professionalsLanguageEnglish (United States)LanguageFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)AllAllWatchlistSign inENFully supportedEnglish (United States)Partially supportedFrançais (Canada)Français (France)Deutsch (Deutschland)हिंदी (भारत)Italiano (Italia)Português (Brasil)Español (España)Español (México)Use appAdvanced searchTITLESNAMESCOLLABORATIONSSee resultsSearch filtersExpand allNameBirth date Enter full date
to
or just enter yyyy, or yyyy-mm below
to BirthdayAwards & recognitionBest Actress-NominatedBest Actor-NominatedBest Actress-WinningBest Actor-WinningBest Supporting Actress-NominatedBest Supporting Actor-NominatedBest Supporting Actress-WinningBest Supporting Actor-WinningBest Director-NominatedBest Director-WinningOscar-NominatedEmmy Award-NominatedGolden Globe-NominatedOscar-WinningEmmy Award-WinningGolden Globe-WinningPage topicsOnly includes names with the selected topicsAward NominationsBiographyBirth DatePlace of birthDeath DatePlace of deathHeight infoQuotesTriviaSearch within topicBiographyPlace of birthPlace of deathQuotesTriviaDeath date to
or just enter yyyy, or yyyy-mm below
to Gender identityMaleFemaleNon-binaryOtherCreditsAdult namesExcludeInclude1-50 of 1,696Sort byPopularityPopularityA-ZBirth dateDeath date1. Catherine Zeta-JonesActressProducerSoundtrackChicago (2002)Catherine Zeta-Jones was born September 25, 1969 in Swansea, Wales (and raised in the nearby town of Mumbles), the only daughter of Patricia (nee Fair) and David James "Dai" Jones, who formerly owned a sweet factory. She attended Dumbarton House School (Swansea). Her father (the son of Bertram (1912-1970) and Zeta Davies Jones (1917-2008)) is of Welsh descent and her mother (the daughter of William (1921-2000) and Catherine O'Callaghan Fair (1920-2001) ) is of English, Irish, and Welsh ancestry. Her brothers are David Jones (born 1967), a development executive, and Lyndon Jones (born 1972), who works at her production company. Her birth name was simply Catherine Jones, but she added her paternal grandmother's name ("Zeta") so as to stand out from the many other young women with the exact same name.She showed an interest early on in entertainment. She starred on stage in "Annie", "Bugsy Malone" and "The Pajama Game". At age 15, she had the lead in the British revival of "42nd Street". She was originally cast as the second understudy for the lead role in the musical but when the star and first understudy became sick the night the play's producer was in the audience, she was given the lead for the rest of the musical's production. She first made a name for herself in the early 1990s when she starred in the Yorkshire Television comedy/drama series The Darling Buds of May (1991). The series was a success and made her one of the United Kingdom's most popular television actresses.She subsequently played supporting roles in several films including Christopher Columbus: The Discovery (1992), the miniseries Catherine the Great (1995) and a larger role as the seductive Sala in The Phantom (1996) before landing her breakthrough role playing the fiery Elena opposite Anthony Hopkins and Antonio Banderas in The Mask of Zorro (1998). She starred in many big-budget blockbusters like Entrapment (1999), The Haunting (1999) and Traffic (2000), for which many believed she was robbed of an Oscar nomination for best supporting actress. She won an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress as murderous vaudevillian Velma Kelly in the musical comedy Chicago (2002). She then appeared opposite George Clooney in Intolerable Cruelty (2003), Ocean's Twelve (2004) and reprised her starring role in the sequel The Legend of Zorro (2005).In November 2000, she married actor Michael Douglas. She gave birth to their son Dylan Michael in August 2000 followed by daughter, Carys, in April 2003. She was awarded Commander of the Order of the British Empire in the 2010 Queen's Birthday Honours List for her services to drama.2. Joy SundayActressProducerDirectorWednesday (2022–2026)Joy Sunday was born in Staten Island, New York to Nigerian parents. She completed theater training at Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School and graduated from USC's School of Cinematic Arts with an honors degree in Critical Studies. She made her TV debut as a top-of-show guest star on CBS' MacGyver (2016) and got her SAG card by way of Justin Simien's Bad Hair (2020). Joy has since made multiple TV and movie appearances, produced a number of short films, and ventured into audiobook narration.3. Will SmithProducerActorWriterThe Fresh Prince of Bel-Air (1995–1996)Willard Carroll "Will" Smith II (born September 25, 1968) is an American actor, comedian, producer, rapper, and songwriter. He has enjoyed success in television, film, and music. In April 2007, Newsweek called him "the most powerful actor in Hollywood". Smith has been nominated for five Golden Globe Awards, two Academy Awards, and has won four Grammy Awards.In the late 1980s, Smith achieved modest fame as a rapper under the name The Fresh Prince. In 1990, his popularity increased dramatically when he starred in the popular television series The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air. The show ran for six seasons (1990-96) on NBC and has been syndicated consistently on various networks since then. After the series ended, Smith moved from television to film, and ultimately starred in numerous blockbuster films. He is the only actor to have eight consecutive films gross over $100 million in the domestic box office, eleven consecutive films gross over $150 million internationally, and eight consecutive films in which he starred open at the number one spot in the domestic box office tally.Smith is ranked as the most bankable star worldwide by Forbes. As of 2014, 17 of the 21 films in which he has had leading roles have accumulated worldwide gross earnings of over $100 million each, five taking in over $500 million each in global box office receipts. As of 2014, his films have grossed $6.6 billion at the global box office. He has received Best Actor Oscar nominations for Ali and The Pursuit of Happyness.Smith was born in West Philadelphia, the son of Caroline (Bright), a Philadelphia school board administrator, and Willard Carroll Smith, Sr., a refrigeration engineer. He grew up in West Philadelphia's Wynnefield neighborhood, and was raised Baptist. He has three siblings, sister Pamela, who is four years older, and twins Harry and Ellen, who are three years younger. Smith attended Our Lady of Lourdes, a private Catholic elementary school in Philadelphia. His parents separated when he was 13, but did not actually divorce until around 2000.Smith attended Overbrook High School. Though widely reported, it is untrue that Smith turned down a scholarship to attend the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT); he never applied to college because he "wanted to rap." Smith says he was admitted to a "pre-engineering [summer] program" at MIT for high school students, but he did not attend. According to Smith, "My mother, who worked for the School Board of Philadelphia, had a friend who was the admissions officer at MIT. I had pretty high SAT scores and they needed black kids, so I probably could have gotten in. But I had no intention of going to college."Smith started as the MC of the hip-hop duo DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince, with his childhood friend Jeffrey "DJ Jazzy Jeff" Townes as producer, as well as Ready Rock C (Clarence Holmes) as the human beat box. The trio was known for performing humorous, radio-friendly songs, most notably "Parents Just Don't Understand" and "Summertime". They gained critical acclaim and won the first Grammy awarded in the Rap category (1988).Smith spent money freely around 1988 and 1989 and underpaid his income taxes. The Internal Revenue Service eventually assessed a $2.8 million tax debt against Smith, took many of his possessions, and garnished his income. Smith was nearly bankrupt in 1990, when the NBC television network signed him to a contract and built a sitcom, The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, around him.The show was successful and began his acting career. Smith set for himself the goal of becoming "the biggest movie star in the world", studying box office successes' common characteristics.
Smith's first major roles were in the drama Six Degrees of Separation (1993) and the action film Bad Boys (1995) in which he starred opposite Martin Lawrence.In 1996, Smith starred as part of an ensemble cast in Roland Emmerich's Independence Day. The film was a massive blockbuster, becoming the second highest grossing film in history at the time and establishing Smith as a prime box office draw. He later struck gold again in the summer of 1997 alongside Tommy Lee Jones in the summer hit Men in Black playing Agent J. In 1998, Smith starred with Gene Hackman in Enemy of the State.He turned down the role of Neo in The Matrix in favor of Wild Wild West (1999). Despite the disappointment of Wild Wild West, Smith has said that he harbors no regrets about his decision, asserting that Keanu Reeves's performance as Neo was superior to what Smith himself would have achieved, although in interviews subsequent to the release of Wild Wild West he stated that he "made a mistake on Wild Wild West. That could have been better."In 2005, Smith was entered into the Guinness Book of World Records for attending three premieres in a 24-hour time span.He has planned to star in a feature film remake of the television series It Takes a Thief.On December 10, 2007, Smith was honored at Grauman's Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard. Smith left an imprint of his hands and feet outside the world-renowned theater in front of many fans. Later that month, Smith starred in the film I Am Legend, released December 14, 2007. Despite marginally positive reviews, its opening was the largest ever for a film released in the United States during December. Smith himself has said that he considers the film to be "aggressively unique". A reviewer said that the film's commercial success "cemented [Smith's] standing as the number one box office draw in Hollywood." On December 1, 2008, TV Guide reported that Smith was selected as one of America's top ten most fascinating people of 2008 for a Barbara Walters ABC special that aired on December 4, 2008.In 2008 Smith was reported to be developing a film entitled The Last Pharaoh, in which he would be starring as Taharqa. It was in 2008 that Smith starred in the superhero movie Hancock.Men in Black III opened on May 25, 2012 with Smith again reprising his role as Agent J. This was his first major starring role in four years.On August 19, 2011, it was announced that Smith had returned to the studio with producer La Mar Edwards to work on his fifth studio album. Edwards has worked with artists such as T.I., Chris Brown, and Game. Smith's most recent studio album, Lost and Found, was released in 2005.Smith and his son Jaden played father and son in two productions: the 2006 biographical drama The Pursuit of Happyness, and the science fiction film After Earth, which was released on May 31, 2013.Smith starred opposite Margot Robbie in the romance drama Focus. He played Nicky Spurgeon, a veteran con artist who takes a young, attractive woman under his wing. Focus was released on February 27, 2015. Smith was set to star in the Sci-Fic thriller Brilliance, an adaptation of Marcus Sakey's novel of the same name scripted by Jurassic Park writer David Koepp. But he left the project.Smith played Dr. Bennet Omalu of the Brain Injury Research Institute in the sports-drama Concussion, who became the first person to discover chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in a football player's brain. CTE is a degenerative disease caused by severe trauma to the head that can be discovered only after death. Smith's involvement is mostly due to his last-minute exit from the Sci-Fi thriller-drama Brilliance. Concussion was directed by Peter Landesman and-bead filmed in Pittsburgh, according to the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. It received $14.4 million in film tax credits from Pennsylvania. Principal photography started on October 27, 2014. Actress Gugu Mbatha-Raw played his wife. Omalu served as a consultant.As of November 2015, Smith is set to star in the independent drama Collateral Beauty, which will be directed by David Frankel. Smith will play a New York advertising executive who succumbs to an deep depression after a personal tragedy.Nobel Peace Prize Concert December 11, 2009, in Oslo, Norway: Smith with wife Jada and children Jaden and Willow
Smith married Sheree Zampino in 1992. They had one son, Trey Smith, born on November 11, 1992, and divorced in 1995. Trey appeared in his father's music video for the 1998 single "Just the Two of Us". He also acted in two episodes of the sitcom All of Us, and has appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show and on the David Blaine: Real or Magic TV special.Smith married actress Jada Koren Pinkett in 1997. Together they have two children: Jaden Christopher Syre Smith (born 1998), his co-star in The Pursuit of Happyness and After Earth, and Willow Camille Reign Smith (born 2000), who appeared as his daughter in I Am Legend. Smith and his brother Harry own Treyball Development Inc., a Beverly Hills-based company named after Trey. Smith and his family reside in Los Angeles, California.Smith was consistently listed in Fortune Magazine's "Richest 40" list of the forty wealthiest Americans under the age of 40.4. Mark HamillActorProducerDirectorStar Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977)Mark Hamill is best known for his portrayal of Luke Skywalker in the original Star Wars trilogy - Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977), Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back (1980), and Star Wars: Episode VI - Return of the Jedi (1983) - a role he reprised in Star Wars: Episode VII - The Force Awakens (2015), Star Wars: Episode VIII - The Last Jedi (2017) and Star Wars: Episode IX - The Rise of Skywalker (2019). He also starred and co-starred in the films Corvette Summer (1978), The Big Red One (1980), and Kingsman: The Secret Service (2014). Hamill's extensive voice acting work includes a long-standing role as the Joker, commencing with Batman: The Animated Series (1992).Hamill was born in Oakland, California, to Virginia Suzanne (Johnson) and William Thomas Hamill, a captain in the United States Navy. He majored in drama at Los Angeles City College and made his acting debut on The Bill Cosby Show (1969). He then played a recurring role (Kent Murray) on the soap opera General Hospital (1963) and co-starred on the comedy series The Texas Wheelers (1974).Released on May 25, 1977, Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977) was an enormous unexpected success and made a huge impact on the film industry. Hamill also appeared in The Star Wars Holiday Special (1978) and later starred in the successful sequels Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back (1980), and Star Wars: Episode VI - Return of the Jedi (1983). For both of the sequels, Hamill was honored with the Saturn Award for Best Actor given by the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films. He reprised the role of Luke Skywalker for the radio dramatizations of both "Star Wars" (1981) and "The Empire Strikes Back" (1983), and then in a starring role in Star Wars: Episode VIII - The Last Jedi (2017). For the radio dramatization of "Return of the Jedi" (1996), the role was played by a different actor.He voiced the new Chucky in Child's Play (2019), taking over from Brad Dourif.5. Michael DouglasActorProducerDirectorBehind the Candelabra (2013)A legendary actor with 50 celebrated years of film, television and producing experience, Michael Douglas is known for his era-defining roles and enduring cultural impact.In addition to his career accomplishments, Douglas has remained a steadfast public servant, activist and philanthropist dedicated to peace and human welfare, democracy, gun control advocacy, support of the arts and support of nuclear disarmament. In 1998, former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan appointed Douglas as a Messenger of Peace for his commitment on disarmament issues, including nuclear non-proliferation and halting the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons.Since his earliest acting work on Hail, Hero! (1969) and The Streets of San Francisco (1972) Douglas has played some of the most memorable and enigmatic American anti-heroes of the last half century. He is most known for his iconic screen roles, like his Academy Award-winning turn as Gordon Gekko Wall Street (1987) as well as the critically and commercially acclaimed films Fatal Attraction (1987), The American President (1995), Basic Instinct (1992), Traffic (2000) and Romancing the Stone (1984). He is also a prolific producer with credits on politically relevant and socially influential motion pictures like One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975), The China Syndrome (1979), Traffic (2000) the television series: The Kominsky Method (2018) and an upcoming limited series where Douglas portrays Benjamin Franklin (2024) during his nine years in France lobbying for French aid for the American Revolution.With a passion for complex protagonists and darkly humorous undercurrents, Douglas has received numerous accolades for his work, including two Academy Awards, five Golden Globe Awards, a Primetime Emmy Award, AFI Life Achievement Award, two French César Awards for Career Achievement and, most recently, the Palme d'or d'honneur for lifetime achievement at the 76th Annual Festival de Cannes as well as the Satyajit Ray Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in Cinema at the Goa Film Festival in India.Michael Douglas was born in New Brunswick, New Jersey, to actors Diana Douglas (Diana Love Dill) and Kirk Douglas (born Issur Danielovitch). His paternal grandparents were Belarusian Jewish immigrants, while his mother was born in Bermuda, the daughter of a local Attorney General, Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Melville Dill; Diana's family had long been established in both Bermuda and the United States. Douglas's parents divorced when he was six, and he went to live with his mother and her new husband. Only seeing Kirk on holidays, Michael attended Eaglebrook School in Deerfield, Massachusetts, where he was about a year younger than all of his classmates.Douglas attended the elite preparatory Choate School and spent his summers with his father on movie sets. Although accepted at Yale, Douglas attended the University of California, Santa Barbara. Deciding he wanted to be an actor in his teenage years, Michael often asked his father about getting a "foot in the door" Kirk was strongly opposed to Michael pursuing an acting career, saying that it was an industry with many downs and few ups, and that he wanted all four of his sons to stay out of it. Michael, however, was persistent, and made his film debut in his father's film Cast a Giant Shadow (1966).After receiving his B.A. degree in 1968, Douglas moved to New York City to continue his dramatic training, studying at the American Place Theatre with Wynn Handman, and at the Neighborhood Playhouse, where he appeared in workshop productions of Pirandello's Six Characters in Search of an Author (1976) and Thornton Wilder's Happy Journey (1963). A few months after he arrived in New York, Douglas got his first big break, when he was cast in the pivotal role of the free-spirited scientist who compromises his liberal views to accept a lucrative job with a high-tech chemical corporation in the CBS Playhouse production of Ellen M. Violett's drama, The Experiment, which was televised nationwide on February 25, 1969.Douglas' convincing portrayal won him the leading role in the adaptation of John Weston's controversial novel, Hail, Hero! (1969), which was the initial project of CBS's newly organized theatrical film production company, Cinema Center Films. Douglas starred as a well-meaning, almost saintly young pacifist determined not only to justify his beliefs to his conservative parents but also to test them under fire in the jungles of Indochina. His second feature, Adam at Six A.M. (1970) concerned a young man's search for his roots. Douglas next appeared in the film version of Ron Cowen's play Summertree (1971), produced by 'Kirk Douglas'' Bryna Company, and then Napoleon and Samantha (1972), a sentimental children's melodrama from the Walt Disney studio.In between film assignments, he worked in summer stock and off-Broadway productions, among them "City Scenes," Frank Gagliano's surrealistic vignettes of contemporary life in New York, John Patrick Shanley's short-lived romance "Love is a Time of Day" and George Tabori's "Pinkville," in which he played a young innocent brutalized by his military training. He also appeared in the made-for-television thriller, "When Michael Calls," broadcast by ABC-TV on February 5, 1972 and in episodes of the popular series "Medical Center" and "The F.B.I."Impressed by Douglas' performance in a segment of The F.B.I. (1965), producer 'Quinn Martin' signed the actor for the part of Karl Malden's sidekick in the police series "The Streets of San Francisco", which premiered in September 1972 and became one of ABC's highest-rated prime-time programs in the mid-1970s. Douglas earned three successive Emmy Award nominations for his performance and he directed two episodes of the series.During the annual breaks in the shooting schedule for The Streets of San Francisco (1972), Douglas devoted most of his time to his film production company, Big Stick Productions, Ltd., which produced several short subjects in the early 1970s. Long interested in producing a film version of Ken Kesey's grimly humorous novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975), Douglas purchased the movie rights from his father and began looking for financial backing. After a number of major motion picture studios turned him down, Douglas formed a partnership with Saul Zaentz, a record industry executive, and the two set about recruiting the cast and crew. Douglas still had a year to go on his contract for "The Streets of San Francisco," but the producers agreed to write his character out of the story so that he could concentrate on filming "Cuckoo's Nest."A critical and commercial success, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) won five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Screenplay, Best Actor and Best Actress, and went on to gross more than $180 million at the box office. Douglas suddenly found himself in demand as an independent producer. One of the many scripts submitted to him for consideration was Mike Gray's chilling account of the attempted cover-up of an accident at a nuclear power plant. Attracted by the combination of social relevance and suspense, Douglas immediately bought the property. Deemed not commercial by most investors, Douglas teamed up with Jane Fonda and her own motion picture production company, IPC Films.A Michael Douglas-IPC Films co-production, The China Syndrome (1979) starred Jack Lemmon, Jane Fonda, and Michael Douglas and received Academy Award nominations for Lemmon and Fonda, as well as for Best Screenplay. The National Board of Review named the film one of the best films of the year.Despite his success as a producer, Douglas resumed his acting career in the late 1970s, starring in Michael Crichton's medical thriller Coma (1978) with Genevieve Bujold, Claudia Weill's feminist comedy It's My Turn (1980) starring Jill Clayburgh, and Peter Hyams' gripping tale of modern-day vigilante justice, "The Star Chamber" (1983). Douglas also starred in Running (1979), as a compulsive quitter who sacrifices everything to take one last shot at the Olympics, and as Zach the dictatorial director/choreographer in Richard Attenborough's screen version of the Broadway's longest running musical A Chorus Line (1985).Douglas' career as an actor/producer came together again in 1984 with the release of the tongue-in-cheek romantic fantasy "Romancing the Stone." Douglas had begun developing the project several years earlier, and with Kathleen Turner as Joan Wilder, the dowdy writer of gothic romances, Danny DeVito as the feisty comic foil Ralphie and Douglas as Jack Colton, the reluctant soldier of fortune. "Romancing the Stone" was a resounding hit and grossed more than $100 million at the box office. Douglas was named Producer of the Year in 1984 by the National Association of Theater Owners. Douglas, Turner and DeVito teamed up in 1985 for the successful sequel The Jewel of the Nile (1985).It took Douglas nearly two years to convince Columbia Pictures executives to approve the production of Starman (1984), an unlikely tale of romance between an extraterrestrial, played by Jeff Bridges, and a young widow, played by Karen Allen. Starman (1984) was the sleeper hit of the 1984 Christmas season and earned an Oscar nomination for Best Actor for Jeff Bridges. In 1986 Douglas created a television series based on the film for ABC which starred Robert Hays.After a lengthy break from acting, Douglas returned to the screen in 1987 appearing in two of the year's biggest hits. He starred opposite Glenn Close in the phenomenally successful psychological thriller, "Fatal Attraction," which was followed by his performance as ruthless corporate raider Gordon Gekko in Oliver Stone's Wall Street (1987), earning him the Academy Award for Best Actor.Douglas next starred in Ridley Scott's thriller Black Rain (1989) and then teamed up again with Kathleen Turner and Danny DeVito in the black comedy The War of the Roses (1989).In 1988, Douglas formed Stonebridge Entertainment, Inc., which produced Flatliners (1990), directed by Joel Schumacher and starred Kiefer Sutherland, Julia Roberts, Kevin Bacon and William Baldwin and Radio Flyer (1992) starring Lorraine Bracco and directed by Richard Donner. Douglas followed with David Seltzer's adaptation of Susan Isaacs' best-selling novel, "Shining Through," opposite Melanie Griffith. In 1992 he starred with Sharon Stone in the erotic thriller from Paul Verhoeven Basic Instinct (1992), one of the year's top grossing films.Douglas gave one of his most powerful performances opposite Robert Duvall in Joel Schumacher's controversial drama Falling Down (1993). That year he also produced the hit comedy "Made in America" starring Whoopi Goldberg, Ted Danson and Will Smith. In 1994-95 he starred with Demi Moore in Barry Levinson's "Disclosure," based on the best seller by Michael Crichton. In 1995, Douglas portrayed the title role in Rob Reiner's romantic comedy The American President (1995) opposite Annette Bening, and in 1997, starred in The Game (1997) directed by David Fincher and co-starring Sean Penn.Douglas formed Douglas/Reuther Productions with partner Steven Reuther in May 1994. The company, under the banner of Constellation Films, produced The Ghost and the Darkness (1996), starring Douglas and Val Kilmer, and John Grisham's The Rainmaker (1997), based on John Grisham's best selling novel, directed by Francis Ford Coppola and starring Matt Damon,Claire Danes, Danny DeVito, Jon Voight, Mickey Rourke, Mary Kay Place, Virginia Madsen, Andrew Shue, Teresa Wright, Johnny Whitworth and Randy Travis.Michael Douglas and Steve Reuther also produced John Woo's action thriller Face/Off (1997) starring John Travolta and Nicolas Cage, which proved to be one of '97's major hits.In 1998, Michael Douglas starred with Gwyneth Paltrow and Viggo Mortensen in the mystery thriller A Perfect Murder (1998), and formed a new production company, Furthur Films. 2000 was a milestone year for Douglas. "Wonder Boys" opened in February 2000 to much critical acclaim. Directed by Curtis Hanson and co-starring Tobey Maguire, Frances McDormand, Robert Downey Jr. and Katie Holmes, Douglas starred in the film as troubled college professor Grady Tripp. Michael was nominated for a Golden Globe and a BAFTA Film Award for his performance."Traffic" was released by USA Films on December 22, 2000 in New York and Los Angeles and went nationwide in January 2001. Douglas played the role of Robert Wakefield, a newly appointed drug czar confronted by the drug war both at home and abroad. Directed by Steven Soderbergh and co-starring Don Cheadle, Benicio del Toro, Amy Irving, Dennis Quaid and Catherine Zeta-Jones, "Traffic" was named Best Picture by New York Film Critics, won Best Ensemble Cast at the SAG Awards, won four Academy Awards (Best Screenplay, Best Editing, Best Director, and Best Supporting Actor for Benicio del Toro) and has been recognized on more than 175 top ten lists.In 2001, Douglas produced and played a small role in USA Films' outrageous comedy "One Night at McCool's" starring Liv Tyler, Matt Dillon, John Goodman and Paul Reiser and directed by Harald Zwart. "McCool's" was the first film by Douglas' company Furthur Films. Also in 2001, Douglas starred in "Don't Say A Word" for 20th Century Fox. The psychological thriller, directed by Gary Fleder, also starred Sean Bean, Famke Janseen and Brittany Murphy.In 2002, Douglas appeared in a guest role on the hit NBC comedy "Will & Grace," and received an Emmy Nomination for his performance.Douglas starred in two films in 2003. MGM/BVI released the family drama "It Runs in the Family," which Douglas produced and starred with his father Kirk Douglas, his mother Diana Douglas his son Cameron Douglas, Rory Culkin and Bernadette Peters. He also starred in the Warner Bros. comedy "The-In Laws," with Albert Brooks, Candice Bergen and Ryan Reynolds.In 2004, Douglas, along with his father Kirk, filmed the intimate HBO documentary "A Father, A Son... Once Upon a Time in Hollywood". Directed by award-winning filmmaker Lee Grant, the documentary examines the professional and personal lives of both men, and the impacts they each made on the motion picture industry.In 2005, Douglas produced and starred in "The Sentinel", which was released by 20th Century Fox in April 2006. Based on the Gerald Petievich novel and directed by Clark Johnson, "The Sentinel" is a political thriller set in the intriguing world of the Secret Service. Douglas stars with Keifer Sutherland, Eva Longoria and Kim Bassinger.
Douglas then filmed "You, Me & Dupree," starring with Owen Wilson, Kate Hudson and Matt Dillon. The comedy, directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, was released by Universal Pictures during the summer of 2006. In 2007 Douglas made "King of California," co-starring Evan Rachel Wood and is written and directed by Michael Cahill, and produced by Alexander Payne and Michael London.Michael had two films released in early 2009, "Beyond A Reasonable Doubt" directed by Peter Hyams and "Ghosts of Girlfriends Past" starring Matthew McConaughey and Jennifer Garner and directed by Mark Waters.
He followed with the drama "Solitary Man" directed by Brian Koppelman and David Levien, co-starring Susan Sarandon, Danny DeVito, Mary Louise-Parker, and Jenna Fischer, produced by Paul Schiff and Steven Soderbergh. In 2010, Douglas reprised his Oscar-winning role as Gordon Gekko in "Wall Street 2: Money Never Sleeps," earning a Golden Globe for his performance. Again directed by Oliver Stone, he co-starred with Shia Labeouf, Cary Mulligan, Josh Brolin, Frank Langella and Susan Sarandon.In 2011, Douglas had a cameo role in Steven Soderbergh's action thriller "Haywire.""Behind the Candelabra," based on the life of '70's/80's musical icon Liberace and his partner Scott Thorson, directed by Steven Soderbergh and costarring Matt Damon, premiered on HBO in May 2013. Douglas won an Emmy, Golden Globe and SAG Award for Best Actor in a television movie or mini series for his performance as the famed entertainer.
He followed with the buddy comedy "Last Vegas," directed by John Turtletaub co-starring Robert DeNiro, Morgan Freeman and Kevin Kline and the romantic comedy "And So It Goes," co-starring Diane Keaton directed by Rob Reiner.Douglas recently starred in and produced the thriller "Beyond The Reach," directed by Jean-Baptiste Leonetti and costarring Jeremy Irvine. He and portrayed Dr. Hank Pym in Marvel's Ant-Man and the Wasp (2018) and Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania (2023) opposite Paul Rudd. The franchise was his first venture into the realm of comic book action adventure.In 2017, he starred in the spy thriller "Unlocked" starring with Noomi Rapace, Orlando Bloom, John Malkovich and directed by Michael Apted.In 1998 Douglas was made a United Nations Messenger of Peace by Kofi Annan. His main concentrations are nuclear non-proliferation and the control of small arms. He is on the Board of Ploughshares Foundation and The Nuclear Threat Initiative.Michael Douglas was recipient of the 2009 AFI Lifetime Achievement as well as the Producers Guild Award that year. In Spring '10 he received the New York Film Society's Charlie Chaplin Award.Douglas has hosted 11 years of "Michael Douglas and Friends" Celebrity Golf Event which has raised over $6 million for the Motion Picture and Television Fund. Douglas is very passionate about the organization, and each year he asks his fellow actors and to come out and show that "we are an industry that takes care of own".Douglas is married to Catherine Zeta-Jones. The couple has one son, Dylan, and one daughter, Carys. Douglas also has one son, Cameron, from a previous marriage.6. Bella RamseyActressSoundtrackWriterGame of Thrones (2016–2019)Bella Ramsey made their professional acting debut as fierce young noblewoman Lyanna Mormont in Season 6 of HBO's Game of Thrones, a role that quickly became a fan favorite and saw Bella return for the next 2 seasons. Bella will be returning to HBO as the leading role of 'Ellie Williams' in their new flagship show The Last of Us opposite Pedro Pascal. Bella is also known for playing the titular character Mildred Hubble in the newest adaptation of 'The Worst Witch' for which they won the Young Performer BAFTA in 2019. Bella lends their voice to 'Hilda,' an award winning animation series for Netflix. Bella was recently on screens in the second season of BBC/HBO's adaptation of His Dark Materials.On the big screen, Bella was recently seen as the titular role in Lena Dunham's feature film Catherine, Called Birdy. In 2020, Bella had a leading role alongside Jesse Eisenberg in the Marcel Marceau biopic "Resistance." In 2019, Bella starred opposite Renée Zellweger, playing her daughter Lorna Luft, in the biopic film 'Judy.' Other film work includes Two For Joy opposite Samantha Morton and Billie Piper, and Holmes and Watson with Will Ferrell. Bella's short films include Zero, On The Beaches, Three Minutes of Silence and Requiem.Bella is an ambassador for Greenpeace and Young Minds, and a patron for Bamboozle Theatre Company.7. Michael MadsenActorProducerWriterThe Hateful Eight (2015)Michael Madsen is an enigmatic force in the entertainment industry, widely regarded as one of the most intense and compelling actors of our time. With an electrifying presence both on and off the screen, he has captivated audiences worldwide with his mesmerizing performances, making an indelible mark on the realm of cinema. Known for his rugged charm and brooding charisma, he has perfected the art of bringing complex characters to life, seamlessly transitioning between nuanced vulnerability and unbridled intensity. Michael Madsen continues to command attention and leave an indelible impact on the industry.Born with an innate talent for acting, his journey in the entertainment industry has been nothing short of extraordinary. His powerful performances have earned him critical acclaim and a dedicated fan base, cementing his status as a true Hollywood icon. his distinctive ability to effortlessly portray characters with a captivating blend of sensitivity and grit has led to collaborations with renowned directors and fellow actors, garnering him numerous accolades and nominations. His unparalleled versatility has allowed him to effortlessly navigate between genres, delivering unforgettable performances in films such as "Kill Bill: Vol. 1," "Thelma & Louise," and "Donnie Brasco," among others.Beyond his remarkable acting career, his multifaceted talents extend to other creative endeavors. An accomplished poet, he has published several volumes of poetry, revealing a profound depth and introspection that mirrors the complexity of his on-screen persona. With an unparalleled body of work and an undying passion for his craft, he remains an indomitable force, continuously pushing the boundaries of cinematic storytelling and leaving an indelible mark on the entertainment landscape.8. Clea DuVallActressWriterProducerArgo (2012)Clea DuVall was born in Los Angeles on September 25, 1977, to Rosemary
(Hatch) and actor Steph DuVall. DuVall's
teenage years presented her with many challenges. Her parents divorced
when she was twelve, and, when her mother remarried, DuVall moved out
because she did not feel at home in the newly-reconstituted family,
dropping out of high school and getting her own apartment. An only
child, she sought entertainment in movies and television programs,
which she consumed voraciously, memorizing entire scenes from movies.
Though a rather shy person, DuVall decided she wanted to be an actress,
and returned to high school, this time the Los Angeles High School of
the Arts. However, the rigors of independent living (she had to work to
support herself) meant that she could spend little time in class, and,
as a result, she fared poorly in the school.Nonetheless, DuVall had intensity, commitment and strong natural
talent, and soon after graduating, the roles began to come, at first
guest spots in television programs and small roles in small films. Soon
her first major role came, in
Robert Rodriguez's successful
1998 take on the alien-body-snatcher genre,
The Faculty (1998), which featured
many other up-and-coming young actors such as
Elijah Wood and
Josh Hartnett, as well as a strong
cast of established adult performers. DuVall played Stokely, a bizarre,
tough Goth Girl. This role was typical of DuVall's casting - the
outsider, attractive though in an edgy and sometimes slightly
disturbing way. (DuVall is pretty and can be glamorous, or can appear
rough-around-the-edges, for a role.) Similar roles came in
But I'm a Cheerleader (1999)
as a tattooed lesbian and
Girl, Interrupted (1999) as a
mental patient.DuVall is a complex person - soft-spoken and friendly, yet tough and
independent - and she ably lends this complexity to her characters,
making her a popular casting choice. She continues to turn in strong
performances in such productions as the ensemble thriller
Identity (2003), the HBO
supernatural series
Carnivàle (2003) and the
critically-praised 21 Grams (2003).
DuVall is a chain smoker and a close friend of director
Jamie Babbit. She is no relation to veteran
actors Robert Duvall or
Shelley Duvall.9. Maria Doyle KennedyActressMusic DepartmentDirectorThe Tudors (2007–2010)Polymath Maria Doyle Kennedy has sustained a varied and eclectic career in the Arts for more than 3 decades .
She began her acting career in 1990 with a starring role in Alan Parker's cult classic "The Commitments" and has gone on to feature in more than 50 films and TV series including John Boorman's "The General" , Cartoon Saloon's "Wolfwalkers" The Tudors, Downton Abbey , Orphan Black, Outlander ....and her own personal favorite.... an episode of Father Ted .Music, her first love, has been equally rewarding, and following time spent ín several bands she set up her own record label in 2000 and has released 11 solo albums to date. Maria's most recent album " Fire on the roof of Eden " was listed in their albums of the year by the Irish Times and Hot Press described her as " one of Ireland's most accomplished vocalists and a national treasure".In what seems a natural progression , she has moved into writing and directing films with 2 award winning short films already completed, 2 more slated for production this coming summer, and a feature film in development with Screen Ireland.She collaborates in almost all her work with her husband Kieran Kennedy ( her partner in life , music and many crimes) and together they are raising 4 sons .10. Rossif SutherlandActorComposerProducerMurder in a Small Town (2024–2025)Rossif Sutherland is a Canadian actor, son of Donald Sutherland and
Francine Racette, who made his acting debut in a short film he directed
while studying at Princeton University after his lead actor was a
no-show on the first day of shooting. Encouraged by his father, Rossif
studied with in New York with Harold Guskin, acting coach of Kevin Kline, Glenn
Close and the late James Gandolfini. Sutherland made his professional debut in
Richard Donner's Timeline as a young French archaeologist. His first
lead role was in Clement Virgo's Poor Boy's Game, playing an amateur
boxer recently released from jail on a journey to redemption. The film
starred Danny Glover, and traveled the world's film festivals including
Toronto and Berlin. He next appeared in Gary Yates' High Life, starring
Timothy Olyphant, portraying Don Juan, a morphine addict who gets his
pills from seductive nurses, and gets to play cowboy-for-a-day after
teaming up with three other addicts to rob a bank. He was nominated for a
Genie for his performance in the film. Rossif bounced around from one
TV series to the next, appearing for a season in ER, King, and most recently
Reign, in which he played Nostradamus. He was nominated for an ACTRA
award for his performance in Flashpoint playing an escaped convict who
suffers from a crippling speech impediment and desperate for justice, having
been wrongfully accused. Sutherland's ambition was never to be an actor.
He grew up in Paris, far from Hollywood (he is fluent in French), and spent his time writing and singing. However challenging it
was to start a career in the shadows of his very successful father and brother, Sutherland's love of the work has driven him to commit wholeheartedly to the privileged life of experiencing the life of others.11. Christopher ReeveActorAdditional CrewProducerSuperman (1978)Christopher D'Olier Reeve was born September 25, 1952, in New York
City, to journalist
Barbara Johnson (née Barbara
Pitney Lamb) and writer/professor F.D. Reeve (Franklin D'Olier Reeve). He came
from an upper-class family; his paternal grandfather was CEO of
Prudential Financial, and one of his maternal great-grandfathers was
Supreme Court Associate Justice Mahlon Pitney.When Reeve was four, his parents divorced. His mother moved him and his brother Benjamin to Princeton, New Jersey, and married an investment banker
a few years later. After graduating from high school, Reeve studied at
Cornell University while at the same time working as a professional
actor. In his final year at Cornell, he was one of two students
selected (Robin Williams was the
other) to study at New York's famous Juilliard School, under the renowned
John Houseman. Although
Christopher is best known for his role as
Superman (1978), a role which he played
with both charisma and grace, his acting career spans a much larger
ground. Paralyzed after a horse riding accident, he died suddenly at
age 52 after several years of living and working with his severe
disability.12. Donald GloverActorWriterProducerCommunity (2009–2014)The multi-talented Donald Glover is a writer, actor, musician, comedian, producer and director, who performs under the stage names Childish Gambino and mcDJ. He was born Donald McKinley Glover at Edwards Air Force Base, California, and was raised in Stone Mountain, Georgia. His mother, Beverly (Smith), ran a daycare center, and his father, Donald Glover, is a retired postal worker. He is not, despite rumors, related to actor Danny Glover. He has a younger brother, Stephen Glover, a screenwriter and producer. Donald graduated from New York University with a degree in Dramatic Writing in 2006.In 2006, at age 23, while still living in the NYU dorms, Glover joined the writing staff of NBC comedy 30 Rock (2006), for which he received a Writers Guild of America Award nomination in 2009. Later credited as an executive story editor, he also had several cameos in front of the camera. In 2009, he left "30 Rock" for a role on the comedy series Community (2009), in which he played an athlete in a rather odd study group, opposite Chevy Chase and Joel McHale. The show ran for six seasons.Glover is the creator, writer, producer, director and star of the series Atlanta (2016), which debuted on FX in 2016. The series was an immediate critical and commercial hit, winning the 2017 Golden Globe Award for Best Series and Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series (Musical or Comedy) for Glover. At the 2017 Primetime Emmy Awards, Glover won Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series and Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series, while the show also earned four other nominations: Outstanding Comedy Series, Outstanding Casting for a Comedy Series, and Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for Glover (for the episode B.A.N. (2016)) and his brother, Stephen (for the episode Streets on Lock (2016)).His first stand-up special aired on Comedy Central in March 2010. As Childish Gambino, Glover has released the studio albums "Camp" (2011), "Because the Internet" (2013) and "Awaken, My Love!" (2016). In 2015, he was nominated for Grammy Awards in 2015 for Best Rap Album for "Because the Internet" and Best Rap Performance for his single "3005" In 2018, he was nominated for five Grammy Awards, including Album of the Year for "Awaken, My Love!" and Record of the Year for the hit "Redbone," winning the Grammy for Best Traditional R&B Performance.On the big screen, Glover's credits include Magic Mike XXL (2015), Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), and The Martian (2015). He will star as the young Lando Calrissian in the upcoming Solo: A Star Wars Story (2018) and will provide the voice of Simba in a remake of The Lion King (2019).In April 2017, Glover was named among Time Magazine's "100 Most Influential People in the World."13. Heather LocklearActressProducerSoundtrackMelrose Place (1993–1999)Heather Locklear was born on 25 September 1961 in Westwood, California, USA. She is an actress and producer, known for Melrose Place (1992), The Perfect Man (2005) and The Return of Swamp Thing (1989). She was previously married to Richie Sambora and Tommy Lee.14. Bridgette Wilson-SamprasActressProducerSoundtrackMortal Kombat (1995)Bridgette Wilson was born in Gold Beach, Oregon, on September 25, 1973.
The brown-eyed actress grew up there with her parents, Kathy and Dale
Wilson, and sister, Tracy Wilson.
Her first taste of fame came in 1990 when she won Miss Teen USA. The
next year she was in Los Angeles taking acting classes. Her
break-through came in 1991 when she landed the role of Lisa Fenimore
Castillo on the daytime soap
Santa Barbara (1984). In 1992
she made her film debut as
Arnold Schwarzenegger's daughter
in Last Action Hero (1993). Soon
after she was seen alongside
Kristy Swanson in
Higher Learning (1995). Her first
lead role was in
Billy Madison (1995) playing
Veronica Vaughan, the love interest of
Adam Sandler's Billy. Several
serious films followed, including roles in
Nixon (1995), Sweet Evil (1996) and
Unhook the Stars (1996).
Bridgette was later seen alongside many teen starlets in the horror
film
I Know What You Did Last Summer (1997).
Bridgette played the arrogant Elsa Shivers, who does not survive to the
final credits. She is also an accomplished songwriter and singer, so
far she has made two CDs; "Gimme a Kiss" and "I Only Want to Be with
You." Besides the song and movie career, she is also an avid supporter
of MADD, American Oceans Campaign, and several AIDS organizations. Her
film
House on Haunted Hill (1999)
reached #1 at the box-office, over Halloween weekend, and she also
starred in the comedy
Just Visiting (2001).15. Jason FlemyngActorProducerDirectorThe Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008)Jason Flemyng was born on 25 September 1966 in Putney, London, England, UK. He is an actor and producer, known for The Curious Case of Benjamin Button (2008), Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels (1998) and Deep Rising (1998). He has been married to Elly Fairman since 6 June 2008.16. Pedro AlmodóvarWriterDirectorProducerTalk to Her (2002)The most internationally acclaimed Spanish filmmaker since Luis Buñuel was
born in a small town (Calzada de Calatrava) in the impoverished Spanish
region of La Mancha. He arrived in Madrid in 1968, and survived by
selling used items in the flea-market called El Rastro. Almodóvar
couldn't study filmmaking because he didn't have the money to afford
it. Besides, the filmmaking schools were closed in early 70s by
Franco's government. Instead, he found a job in the Spanish phone
company and saved his salary to buy a Super 8 camera. From 1972 to
1978, he devoted himself to make short films with the help of of his
friends. The "premieres" of those early films were famous in the
rapidly growing world of the Spanish counter-culture. In few years,
Almodóvar became a star of "La Movida", the pop cultural movement of
late 70s Madrid. His first feature film, Pepi, Luci, Bom and Other Girls Like Mom (1980), was made in 16 mm and
blown-up to 35 mm for public release. In 1987, he and his brother
Agustín Almodóvar established their own production company: El Deseo, S. A. The
"Almodóvar phenomenon" has reached all over the world, making his films
very popular in many countries.17. Jordan GavarisActorProducerThe Lake (2022–2023)Jordan Gavaris was born on 25 September 1989 in Brampton, Ontario, Canada. He is an actor and producer, known for The Lake (2022), Hacks (2021) and Orphan Black (2013).18. Tate DonovanActorDirectorProducerArgo (2012)Tate Buckley Donovan began making television appearances while still in his
teens, most often cast as angst-ridden high schoolers in such
made-for-TV films such as Not My Kid (1985) and Nutcracker: Money, Madness & Murder (1987).Donovan was born to a large family
in Tenafly, New Jersey, the son of Eileen Frances (McAllister) and John Timothy Donovan, a surgeon. He is of Irish descent. Donovan moved to Los Angeles to be closer to
the television industry while he attended college at USC, where he also
met several fellow actors who became longtime friends, such as Grant Heslov
and George Clooney, with whom he still parties with to this day (he also had a
fairly substantial part in their smash film, Good Night, and Good Luck. (2005). Although not
quite as active as his friend Clooney in the romantic arena, confirmed
bachelor Donovan has been engaged to both film star Sandra Bullock and
television icon Jennifer Aniston, and has dated a diverse group of women such as
socialite Plum Sikes (2000), stage actress Whitney Allen (2001) and
television actress Lauren Graham, whom he met when they both appeared in the
play "Once in a Lifetime" at the Williamstown Theater Festival in 2002.
After graduating from college, Donovan gained prominent notice for his
portrayal of the charismatic yet self-centered co-pilot in the ensemble
period drama Memphis Belle (1990). Prior to that, Donovan had appeared as the cocky
elder camper in SpaceCamp (1986) and as a recovering drug addict in Clean and Sober (1988). His
first leading role was in the charming but minor Love Potion No. 9 (1992), costarring
Bullock, to whom he became engaged (their relationship ended in 1994).
He then appeared in several independent features as sullen, withdrawn
types before following up with a role in the Disney family comedy,
Holy Matrimony (1994). He returned to Disney for perhaps his highest-profile effort
to date, the animated Hercules (1997), for which he provided the voice for the
adult version of the title character. His small-screen work has
included a Cable ACE-nominated turn in the HBO series Vietnam War Story II (1988) (V). He
joined the parade of film stars who turned to sitcoms, heading the cast
of Partners (1995) opposite Jon Cryer. When that failed to catch on, he joined
with his "Memphis Belle" co-stars Eric Stoltz and Reed Diamond to play three
brothers in a memorable episode of NBC's Homicide: Life on the Street (1993) and had a recurring
role as a client and potential love interest for Calista Flockhart's titular
lawyer Ally McBeal (1997). Switching networks, he had a recurring role as a love
interest opposite his then-girlfriend Jennifer Aniston in NBC's Friends (1994) and
donned clerical garb to play the priest son of a large Irish Catholic
family in the short-lived NBC drama Trinity (1998). More recently he has
appeared as a guest star in several shows such as The Guardian (2001), as well as
Mister Sterling (2003) and in the new show The O.C. (2003).19. Benjamin Evan AinsworthActorSoundtrackThe Legend of Zelda (2027)Benjamin is a British actor born September 25, 2008, who currently is shooting various film, TV and voice projects. In 2021, he completed filming the titular role of Pinocchio in the Disney live action remake alongside Tom Hanks. He starred in the acclaimed Netflix TV series The Haunting Of Bly Manor (2020), playing Miles Wingrave, and Disney+ Film Flora & Ulysses (2021), playing William Spiver. Benjamin also played Jacob in the award-winning short film The Recycling Man (2020). He has played various principal roles in professional theatre and musical theatre productions.20. Joel David MooreActorProducerDirectorAvatar (2009)Joel David Moore is a versatile actor, director, and writer with two decades of experience in the entertainment industry. He first gained recognition for his roles in comedies like Dodgeball and Grandma's Boy, and achieved global stardom with James Cameron's Avatar, the highest-grossing film of all time. With over 50 film and television credits, Moore continues to act in projects like The Baker, Retirement Plan, and the upcoming Avatar sequels.Moore is also an accomplished filmmaker. He made his directorial debut with the psychological thriller Spiral, which garnered critical acclaim. His other directorial efforts include Youth in Oregon, a remake of Hide and Seek, and the recently released psycho-drama Some Other Woman. In 2019, he co-founded Balcony 9, a production studio dedicated to developing compelling film and television projects, including the indie thriller Immaculate Room, acclaimed western drama Desperation Road, and the upcoming theatrical release Bride Hard starring Rebel Wilson. The company is currently in production for Oscar winning Dir. Gus Vant Sants next feature Dead Man's Wire. Ever the innovator, Moore is exploring the use of AI and technology to push the boundaries of storytelling.Beyond his creative pursuits, Moore is a dedicated philanthropist. He serves on the board of Dollar For, a non-profit organization committed to alleviating medical debt. Driven by a deep concern for the environment, Moore is also an active advocate for sustainability, working closely with Walking Softer to find solutions for the future. This passion has taken him to both polar regions, where he has witnessed the impact of climate change firsthand.Moore is a strong believer in balancing his professional life with personal fulfillment. He cherishes his time with his wife, Katherine Braham Moore, and their two young children21. Beth ToussaintActressScream 3 (2000)Beth Toussaint was born on 25 September 1962 in Pleasant Hill, California, USA. She is an actress, known for Scream 3 (2000), Star Trek: The Next Generation (1987) and Red Eye (2005). She has been married to Jack Coleman since 21 June 1996. They have one child.22. Mikael PersbrandtActorProducerSoundtrackIn a Better World (2010)MIKAEL PERSBRANDTMikael was born in Jakobsberg outside Stockholm. His interest in acting started when working as an extra in Ingmar Bergman's staging of William Shakespeare's "King Lear."In the early 1990s, Mikael starred in the immensely popular Swedish TV series, "Rederiet" ("The Shipping Company.") which led to other roles in various TV productions. But it was In 1997 when Persbrandt starred as the tough detective, Gunvald Larsson, he received his major break-through. "Beck" was not only a major hit in Sweden but in Germany as well - and (as of 2022) consists of 46 theatrical and television movies based on the characters created by authors Maj Sjöwall and Per Wahlöo.In 2005, Mikael received the highly coveted Ingmar Bergman award from the Guldbagge Awards and in 2006 he earned Best Actor nominations from both the Bodil (Denmark) and Guldbagge Awards for his performance in Simon Staho's "Bang Bang Orangutang." He also starred in Staho's "Day and Night," which won the Chicago International Film Festival's Silver Hugo Award for Best Ensemble Acting.He starred in IFC Films' "Everlasting Moments," for which he earned the 2009 Guldbagge Award for Best Actor. Mikael's other work includes starring roles in the Swedish films "The Hypnotist", the "Hamilton" series, "Någon annanstans i Sverige" (for which he received a 2011 Guldbagge nomination), "Stockholm East," and "Day and Night. He earned another Guldbagge Award in 2014 for Best Actor in Kjell-Åke Andersson's "Nobody Owns Me".Mikael Persbrandt became internationally known for his starring role in the Academy Award winning foreign feature, "In A Better World," directed by Susanne Bier. His performance earned him a 2011 European Film Award nomination for Best Actor.
Some other international work includes the final installment of Peter Jackson's "The Hobbit: The Battle of Five Armies, the drama "Someone You Love," which took home the Audience Award for Best International Film at the Los Angeles Film Festival and the critically acclaimed feature "The Salvation,"
Some of his recent roles can be seen in the Netflix success "Sex Education" and "The Kingdom Exodus" directed by Lars von Trier, for which he received the 2023 Robert Award nomination for Best leading male actor in a TV series.Most recently Mikael portrayed the former UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld in Per Fly's political and acclaimed thriller Hammarskjöld, for which Persbrandt received fantastic praise and reviews. The feature film has also become one of the most viewed in the cinemas in the Nordics during 2024.Mikael also has an extended theatre background with Swedish productions such as "Three Sisters" and "Death of a Salesman" at the Plaza Theatre, "Mr. Puntila and His Man Matti," "The Good Person of Szechwan" and "Long Day's Journey Into Night" at the Royal Dramatic Theatre. Among his other appearances at the Royal Dramatic Theatre mention can be made of "Maria Stuart" (directed by Ingmar Bergman,) "Don Juan," "The Wild Duck," "Miss Julie" and recently "The Sea Gull."
In 2012 he became the owner of the private theatre Maximteatern in Stockholm where he also has participated in several successful plays such as "The Dance of Death", "MacBeth" and the latest critically acclaimed play "Så enkel är kärleken" in 2022.23. Chris OwenActorCamera and Electrical DepartmentOctober Sky (1999)Chris Owen is an American actor and photographer. He is best known for his role as Chuck Sherman, a.k.a.The Sherminator in the American Pie film franchise, appearing in American Pie, American Pie 2, American Pie Presents: Band Camp and American Reunion. Aside from Eugene Levy, he is the only actor from the theatrical features to appear in the "American Pie Presents:" direct-to-video spin-off movies.24. Antonia GentryActressSoundtrackGinny & Georgia (2021–2025)Antonia Gentry was born in Atlanta, Georgia and briefly left to have a stint at Davidson Fine Arts in Augusta, Georgia for middle and high school. Her first play performance was an original work by her mother Sandra, who has a knack for poetry and art. Attending a fine-arts school and fueled by her desire to perform again, Antonia performed in many plays that competed at the regional, state, and national levels by the time she was a high-school senior.Returning to Atlanta to study at the prestigious Emory University, she is excited to have been able to acquire many commercial credits, and substantial Netflix credits, before graduating with the Class of 2019. She is also proud to have been an active leader in Emory's Rathskellar Comedy Improv troupe and perform alongside Atlanta theater professionals at their own Equity theater in plays such as Romeo and Juliet (as Juliet), The Tempest, and more.Two movies that have forever changed her life are Pan's Labrynth and The Pianist, and she is looking forward to a fruitful career post-University.Aside from acting, Antonia loves to play piano, sing, smother her pet cat Buttersworth with love, and learn new languages.25. Zach WoodsActorWriterDirectorThe Other Guys (2010)Zachary Woods is a Jewish-American actor from Trenton, New Jersey who is known for playing Sabre employee Gabe Lewis from The Office. He also acted in Silicon Valley, Ghostbusters: Answer the Call, In the Loop, Playing House, Avenue 5, Veep, The Other Guys, Spy, The Post, Downhill and The Angry Birds Movie 2.50 moreRecently viewedYou have no recently viewed pages
Get the IMDb AppSign in for more accessSign in for more accessFollow IMDb on socialGet the IMDb AppFor Android and iOSHelpSite IndexIMDbProBox Office MojoLicense IMDb DataPress RoomAdvertisingJobsConditions of UsePrivacy PolicyYour Ads Privacy ChoicesIMDb, an Amazon company© 1990-2025 by IMDb.com, Inc.Back to top