iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 14 Pro: Why I'm upgrading my model after three years of use | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 14 Pro: Why I'm upgrading my model after three years of use
The iPhone 17 Pro has arrived, but is it truly worth the upgrade? Here's the breakdown to help you decide.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 2:00 a.m. PT
Apple/Maria Diaz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.As a current iPhone 14 Pro Max user, I still feel like my three-year-old iPhone gives me everything I need from a smartphone. Sure, it may still have a Lightning Port and no support for Apple Intelligence, but I get around those very minor discomforts by using a MagSafe charger and ChatGPT. Truth be told, the Apple Intelligence features haven't wowed me enough to make me fork over $1,000 on a newer iPhone. Also: iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro: My buying advice after comparing the upgradesBut a few things, like the improved camera array, A19 Pro chip, and upgraded scratch resistance, make me want to upgrade to the newer model. Here's how you can decide if it's time for you. SpecificationsFeatureiPhone 17 ProiPhone 14 ProStarting price$1,099$470 (renewed)Display size6.3"6.1"ProcessorA19 ProA16 BionicFront camera18 MP Center Stage, Dual Capture, Tap to zoom and rotate12 MP TrueDepth, Tap to zoomRear cameras48 MP Pro Fusion Main, 48 MP ultrawide, 48 MP Fusion Telephoto 48 MP Main, 12 MP ultrawide, 12 MP telephotoBatteryUp to 33 hours video playbackUp to 23 hours video playbackStorage256GB, 512GB, 1TB128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TBMaterialAluminum unibodyStainless steel frameFinishesCosmic Orange, Deep Blue, SilverDeep Purple, Gold, Silver, Space Black
You should buy the iPhone 17 Pro if...
Nina Raemont/ZDNET1. You want the best iPhone camera The iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max appear to be exceptional tools for content creators. All three cameras on the iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max have been upgraded to 48 MP, and the telephoto lens offers up to 8x optical zoom, which is the longest on an iPhone. Also: Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: Here are the main differencesApple also refreshed its front-facing camera to 18 MP and added support for Center Stage to help you automatically frame your selfies. This uses AI to expand the field of view to include more subjects. The selfie camera's sensor is also square instead of having a 4:3 aspect ratio, letting you take selfies in portrait or landscape mode without turning your phone. The new camera system also supports Dual Capture, letting you record what Apple calls ultra-stabilized video from both front and rear cameras simultaneously.
2. You want more processing powerThe iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max run on the A19 Pro chip, a new Apple processor that is the most powerful and efficient ever on an iPhone. This processor helps the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max deliver up to 40% improved performance compared to the 16 Pro. The 17 Pro's CPU is up to 40% faster than that of the iPhone 14 Pro, while the GPU is twice as fast.Also: Every iPhone 17 model compared: Should you buy the base model, Air, Pro, or Max?During its iPhone 17 launch event, Apple put a lot of emphasis on how it redesigned the smartphone's internal architecture with this latest lineup. This includes a new vapor chamber within the iPhone that has deionized water sealed and laser-welded into the aluminum chassis to dissipate heat. Switching from titanium to aluminum for the iPhone 17 Pro will also help with heat dissipation, which can enhance performance. Apple's redesigned body gives the 17 Pro and Pro Max a larger battery, which gives the smartphones a longer battery life. Compared to the iPhone 14 Pro, the 17 Pro offers up to 10 more hours of video playback on a single charge.3. You want top-of-the-line connectivityThe new N1 is the wireless networking chip in the iPhone 17 lineup. It supports Wi-Fi 7, an upgrade from the Wi-Fi 6-compatible iPhone 14 Pro, as well as Bluetooth 6 and Thread. With the new N1 chip, Apple also improved the reliability of the Personal Hotspot and AirDrop.
Buy the iPhone 17 Pro (pre-order on 9/12) View now at Apple
You should buy/stick to the iPhone 14 Pro if...
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
1. You don't mind missing out on Apple IntelligenceApple Intelligence isn't all that. Android devices are lapping the iPhone in AI features, so I wouldn't recommend switching to a new iPhone only to access Apple Intelligence just yet. The AI features can be a pro on the iPhone 17 Pro's column, but don't hinge your buying decision on them alone, especially when they still leave a lot to be desired. Apple has yet to upgrade Siri to its 2.0 version with generative AI, though the virtual assistant can access ChatGPT as needed when it feels like the AI chatbot can better handle a request. However, there are ways to add shortcuts to ChatGPT, even make it your go-to voice assistant (though it won't handle smart home requests or personal accounts, like music apps). Also: How to program your iPhone's Action Button to summon ChatGPT's voice assistantThat said, some great Apple Intelligence features are available, such as Live Translation, Visual Intelligence, Writing Tools, and more.
2. You're okay with the Lightning PortApple switched its charging ports from its proprietary Lightning Port to USB-C with the iPhone 15 lineup, so the 14 is the last one to feature the Lightning Port. USB-C gives the iPhone the convenience of a universal charging port instead of making users stick to a walled ecosystem. 3. Saving money is your priority If your iPhone 14 Pro still functions as it should, or even if you're mostly using it to browse, text, and snap quick photos, it's also a good idea to hold out for a future model. The iPhone 14 Pro and Pro Max still support the latest iOS 26 release and Wi-Fi 6, have a strong 48 MP rear camera, even if it doesn't have 8x optical zoom, and feature the Dynamic Island.
Buy the iPhone 14 Pro (renewed) $475 at Amazon
Alternatives to consider
ZDNET RECOMMENDS iPhone 17 Air This ultra-thin iPhone is only 5.6 mm thick but features the A19 Pro chip and a 6.5-inch display.
View at Apple
ZDNET RECOMMENDS iPhone 16 Plus The iPhone 16 Pro has an A18 chip and support for Apple Intelligence.
View at Apple Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
Why I'm recommending this iPhone 17 model to most people (and it's not the Pro Max)
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use