Run VMware Cloud Foundation (VCF) In The Cloud - Amazon Elastic VMware Service (EVS) - AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Amazon Elastic VMware Service
Overview
Features
FAQs
Pricing
Migration and Modernization›
Amazon EVS
Amazon EVS is now available
Amazon Elastic VMware Service (Amazon EVS)
The fastest path to migrate and operate VMware workloads on AWS
Get started
Request a complimentary migration assessment
Meet Amazon EVS
Run VMware Cloud Foundation (VCF) directly within your Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) with Amazon Elastic VMware Service (Amazon EVS). Experience the scale, resilience, and performance of AWS while keeping your familiar VCF software and skills---all without re-platforming or re-factoring. Whether you choose to self-manage or work with AWS Partners, Amazon EVS allows you to seamlessly extend and expand your VMware environment and unlock business agility and transformation.
Access Amazon EVS on the AWS console
Play
How Amazon EVS helps you in your cloud journey
Simplify and accelerate your migration to AWS
Remove migration friction and ensure operational consistency with subscription portability and automated deployment of VCF in the cloud. Extend on-premises networks and migrate workloads without having to change IP addresses, retrain staff, or re-write operational runbooks.
Retain control of your VMware architecture in the cloud
Keep complete control over your VMware architecture and optimize a virtualization stack that meets the unique demands of your applications including add-ons and third-party solutions.
Self-manage or leverage AWS Partners for a managed experience
Unlock choice and flexibility to self-manage or leverage the expertise of AWS Partners to manage and operate your VCF environment on AWS to meet your business goals across talent, time, and costs.
Scale and protect your business from disruptions
Enhance scalability on the most secure, scalable, and resilient cloud for migrating and operating your VMware-based workloads.
Embrace AWS innovation to transform your applications and infrastructure
As an AWS service, Amazon EVS simplifies extending and expanding your VMware environment with 200+ services (including managed databases, analytics, containers, serverless, and generative AI) to transform your business.
Use cases
Migrate and scale rapidly to the cloud
Quickly migrate workloads to AWS, eliminating aging infrastructure, reducing operational costs, and meeting critical business timelines with a seamless, strategic data center exit strategy.
Extend your data center
Seamlessly expand your data center's capacity with scalable AWS infrastructure while maintaining your familiar VMware environment.
Adopt AWS services at your own pace
Extend and expand your VMware environments with scalable and reliable global infrastructure and over 200 AWS services to drive innovation.
Protect your workloads
Minimize downtime and data loss as you implement backup and recovery plans into AWS.
Partners
Independent Software Vendors (ISVs)
Managed Service Providers (MSPs)
Learn more
Console
Get started with Amazon EVS
Access console
Documentation
Dive deep into Amazon EVS
Access the user guide
Announcement
Read the launch announcement
Learn more
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.