Tenure-Track Faculty Position in Human Genetics job with The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (UT Southwestern Medical Center) | 12845141
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Tenure-Track Faculty Position in Human Genetics
Employer
The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (UT Southwestern Medical Center)
Location
Dallas, Texas (US)
Salary
Commensurate with experience
Closing date
23 Nov 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine
Job Type
Faculty Member
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
The Center for Human Genetics (McDermott Center for Human Growth & Development) at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (http://www.utsouthwestern.edu/mcdermott-center) is seeking applications for a tenure-track position in human genetics. Outstanding investigators at any rank will be considered. Areas of interest include the impact of genome variation on human phenotypes, mechanisms underlying Mendelian disorders, genotype-environment interactions, functions of the non-coding genome and computational genomics.
UT Southwestern Medical Center, one of the premiere academic medical centers in the world, has a long and distinguished history of excellence in disease-related basic science research, particularly in genetics. Highlights of the Center for Human Genetics include:
A stimulating and highly collaborative environment that provides a nucleus for basic and clinical human genetics research across UT Southwestern
A state-of-the-art next-generation sequencing facility with informatics support
Core services for sample collection from patients and families
Partnership with new campus-wide initiatives in human and population genomics
Integration with clinical services in medical genetics and rare diseases.
UT Southwestern is part of a health care system that provides primary care and referral services to a large, diverse and growing population in Dallas and North Texas.
Candidates should hold a graduate degree (M.D., Ph.D. or M.D./Ph.D.), have completed a postdoctoral fellowship and demonstrated the potential to lead a competitive, independently funded research program. Candidates should apply on line at https://jobs.utsouthwestern.edu/ (search for job #815744) by November 15, 2025. Applications should include a C.V., 3-page summary of past accomplishments and future research, and letters of support sent by three references. Please email questions to Susan.Hayes@UTSouthwestern.edu.
UT Southwestern Medical Center is committed to an educational and working environment that provides equal opportunity to all members of the University community. As an equal opportunity employer, UT Southwestern prohibits unlawful discrimination, including discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, disability, genetic information, citizenship status, or veteran status. To learn more, please visit: https://jobs.utsouthwestern.edu,
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Tenure-Track Faculty Position in Human Genetics
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Faculty Position in Metabolism Research
Dallas, Texas (US)
Faculty Position in Tissue Regeneration and Stem Cell Biology
Dallas, Texas (US)
Faculty Assistant Professor
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software