Chicken and Stuffing Casserole
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Chicken and Swiss Stuffing Bake
Slow Cooker Chicken and Stuffing
Pesto Chicken Bake
Stuffing Stuffed Chicken Breasts
Beef Stuffing Bake
Chicken Marsala Bake
Roasted Chicken with Sausage Stuffing
Chicken and Potato Bake
Roast Chicken with Creole Stuffing
Baked Chicken Breast
Vegetable Stuffing Bake
Chicken with Potato Stuffing
Roasted Chicken with Basil-Rice Stuffing
Chicken Breast with Stuffing
Clam Stuffing Bake
Chicken with Stuffing
Stuffing-Topped Chicken and Broccoli
Chicken with Peach Stuffing
Chicken and Stuffing Pie
Chicken Stuffing Bake Recipe photo by Eric Kleinberg for Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesCasserolesChicken Casseroles
Chicken and Stuffing Casserole
Chicken Stuffing Bake Recipe photo by Eric Kleinberg for Taste of Home
4.5 | 39 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 5 min. Bake: 45 min.
By
Christabel Lobo
Recipe by Nicole Vogl Harding, Spokane, Washington
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Sep. 21, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This hearty six-ingredient chicken and stuffing casserole is a breeze to make, requiring just five minutes of prep time, making it ideal for busy weeknights and group gatherings.
When you’re craving a comforting dish but short on time, this chicken and stuffing casserole comes to the rescue. Combining tender chicken and melty Swiss cheese in a rich creamy sauce, this recipe delivers on all fronts.
In just 50 minutes, you’ll have a piping hot, golden-brown casserole that makes six servings, perfect for family dinners, holiday potlucks or meal planning for the week ahead. The best part? This casserole requires just six ingredients and takes just five minutes to prep. While your oven does the heavy lifting, you’re free to mingle with guests or relax on the couch.
Ingredients for Chicken and Stuffing Casserole
ERIC KLEINBERG FOR TASTE OF HOME
Chicken: Six boneless chicken breast halves provide a lean protein base for this chicken and stuffing bake.
Swiss cheese: Swiss cheese adds a gooey, melty layer to the casserole without overpowering the other ingredients.
Cream of chicken soup: A can of undiluted condensed cream of chicken soup forms the creamy base of the casserole.
White wine: White wine lends moisture and a depth of flavor to this chicken and stuffing casserole recipe. If you’re out of white wine, you can easily substitute homemade chicken broth.
Stuffing cubes: Three cups of stuffing cubes create a crispy and flavorful topping. As it bakes, the stuffing absorbs flavors from the sauce.
Butter: Melted butter helps to bind the stuffing cubes, adds richness and ensures they achieve a golden-brown finish in the oven.
Directions
Step 1: Layer the chicken and cheese
ERIC KLEINBERG FOR TASTE OF HOME
Preheat the oven to 350°F. Place the chicken in a greased 13×9-inch baking dish. Top each piece with a slice of Swiss cheese.
Editor’s Tip: For even cooking of the casserole in the oven, ensure that the chicken breasts are similar in thickness. If needed, pound thicker parts of the meat to achieve a uniform thickness.
Step 2: Make the sauce
ERIC KLEINBERG FOR TASTE OF HOME
In a small bowl, combine the condensed cream of chicken soup with the white wine, and mix to create a smooth sauce. Spoon the mixture over the cheese-topped chicken, making sure each piece is coated well.
Step 3: Create the topping
ERIC KLEINBERG FOR TASTE OF HOME
In another small bowl, mix the stuffing cubes with the melted butter. Toss until evenly coated, then sprinkle the mixture over the soup layer, covering the entire casserole dish evenly.
Step 4: Bake the casserole
ERIC KLEINBERG FOR TASTE OF HOME
Bake the casserole, uncovered, for 45 to 55 minutes or until a thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the chicken breast reads 170° and the topping is golden brown and crispy.
Editor’s Tip: For a crispier topping, broil the casserole for the last two minutes, watching closely to avoid burning.
ERIC KLEINBERG FOR TASTE OF HOME
Chicken and Stuffing Casserole Variations
Use a different cheese: Substitute the Swiss cheese with sharp cheddar, mozzarella or provolone for a different flavor profile.
Toss in some veggies: Include a layer of frozen mixed vegetables, steamed broccoli florets, frozen spinach or sliced mushrooms between the chicken and cheese for added nutrition.
Make it spicy: Add a pinch of red pepper flakes or diced jalapenos to the soup mixture for a spicy kick.
Try different stuffing: Try topping this casserole with homemade cornbread for a unique twist.
Add some herbs: Sprinkle fresh or dried thyme, rosemary or sage over the chicken for additional flavor.
Make it creamier: For extra richness in this chicken and stuffing casserole recipe, add 1/4 cup of sour cream to the sauce mixture.
How to Store Chicken and Stuffing Casserole
Leftovers of this chicken and stuffing casserole recipe can be stored in an airtight container in the fridge for up to three days. Reheat the casserole in the oven or microwave until heated through before serving.
Can you freeze chicken and stuffing casserole?
Yes, you can easily freeze this casserole. Allow the casserole to cool completely before transferring leftovers to single-serve freezer-safe containers. Freeze the leftovers for up to three months, then let them thaw in the refrigerator overnight before reheating.
Can you make chicken and stuffing casserole ahead of time?
Yes, you can assemble this chicken and stuffing bake a day in advance. Cover it and place it in the fridge until you’re ready to bake. If baking straight from the refrigerator, add an extra 10 to 15 minutes to the bake time.
Chicken and Stuffing Casserole Tips
ERIC KLEINBERG FOR TASTE OF HOME
What can you serve with chicken and stuffing casserole?
A side of steamed vegetables, fresh green salad or roasted potatoes are all you need to round out the meal when serving this easy chicken and stuffing casserole recipe.
Can I use rotisserie chicken instead of raw chicken breasts?
Using pre-cooked rotisserie chicken can save time when making this casserole recipe. Shred the rotisserie chicken and reduce the baking time to about 30 to 35 minutes, or until the casserole is hot and bubbly.
How can I make the casserole gluten-free?
To make a gluten-free version of this chicken and stuffing casserole, you need to use a gluten-free chicken soup and replace the stuffing cubes with gluten-free bread cubes.
How can I tell if the chicken is done without a meat thermometer?
While a meat thermometer is preferable for food safety reasons, if you follow the baking instructions and the chicken breasts aren’t pink on the inside once cut, you should be good to go. Follow our other tips on how to bake chicken.
Watch How to Make Chicken Stuffing Bake
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Chicken Stuffing Bake
4.5 | 39 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:6 servings
Prep:5 min
Cook:45 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
6 boneless skinless chicken breast halves (6 ounces each)
6 slices Swiss cheese
1 can (10-3/4 ounces) condensed cream of chicken soup, undiluted
1/3 cup white wine or chicken broth
3 cups seasoned stuffing cubes
1/2 cup butter, melted
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°. Place chicken in a greased 13-in. x 9-in. baking dish; top with cheese. In a small bowl, combine soup and wine; spoon over cheese.
In a small bowl, combine stuffing cubes and butter; sprinkle over soup. Bake, uncovered, until a thermometer reads 170°, 45-55 minutes.
Nutrition Facts
1 serving: 402 calories, 27g fat (15g saturated fat), 86mg cholesterol, 947mg sodium, 22g carbohydrate (2g sugars, 2g fiber), 16g protein.
Author
Christabel Lobo
Christabel is a freelance writer and illustrator who’s been covering food and travel for more than eight years. A third-culture kid who grew up in Dubai, she’s written about many cultures and cuisines, including as a co-author of "Fodor’s Essential India" guidebook. At Taste of Home, Christabel rounds up great recipes from around the world.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
At my bridal shower a few years ago, each guest brought a recipe card with their best dish. We've tried everyone's recipe, but this chicken stuffing bake is a favorite. —Nicole Vogl Harding, Spokane, Washington
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box