Trump poised to fire US attorney for resisting effort to charge NY AG Letitia James: Sources - ABC News
ABC NewsLiveVideoShowsShopInterest Successfully AddedWe'll notify you here with news aboutTurn on desktop notifications for breaking stories about interest? OffOnStream onTrump poised to fire US attorney for resisting effort to charge NY AG Letitia James: SourcesTrump officials had pushed Erik Siebert to bring criminal charges against James.ByKatherine Faulders, Peter Charalambous, and Alexander MallinSeptember 19, 2025, 5:44 PM2:22Erik Siebert, interim U.S. Attorney for the eastern district of Virginia, speaks during a news conference about an MS-13 gang leader who was arrested in an operation by the Virginia Homeland Security Task Force, at the Manassas FBI Field Office, March 27, 2025, in Manassas, Va. | President Donald Trump and Britain's Prime Minister Keir Starmer attend a business roundtable at Chequers near Aylesbury, England, Sept. 18, 2025.Rod Lamkey|Evan Vucci/APPresident Donald Trump said that he wants to see his handpicked U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia "out" of a job, during an exchange with reporters in the Oval Office Friday.ABC News has reported that Trump is expected to fire U.S. Attorney Erik Siebert after investigators were unable to find incriminating evidence of mortgage fraud against New York Attorney General Letitia James, according to sources. "I want him out," Trump told ABC News' Jonathan Karl, saying it was because Virginia's two Democratic Senators supported his nomination. Trump nominated Siebert for the position in May, and he has served as the interim U.S. attorney since Trump’s inauguration.Trump officials pressuring federal prosecutors to bring criminal charges against NY AG Letitia James: Sources"When I saw that he got approved by those two men, I said, pull it, because he can't be any good," Trump said. "When I learned that they voted for him, I said, I don't really want him."After Siebert declined to seek an indictment against James, President Trump opted to fire him, sources have told ABC News."It looks to me like [James] is very guilty of something, but I really don’t know," Trump told reporters in the Oval Office on Friday. Federal prosecutors in Virginia had uncovered no clear evidence to prove that James had knowingly committed mortgage fraud when she purchased a home in the state in 2023, ABC News first reported earlier this week, but Trump officials pushed Siebert to nevertheless bring criminal charges against her, according to sources.Erik Siebert, interim U.S. Attorney for the eastern district of Virginia, speaks during a news conference about an MS-13 gang leader who was arrested in an operation by the Virginia Homeland Security Task Force, at the Manassas FBI Field Office, March 27, 2025, in Manassas, Va.Rod Lamkey/APWhile sources caution that plans could still change, Siebert was notified on Thursday of Trump's intention to fire him, sources told ABC News, and was told that Friday would be his final day on the job. Abbe Lowell, an attorney for James, called the expected firing a "brazen attack on the rule of law.""Firing people until he finds someone who will bend the law to carry out his revenge has been the President’s pattern -- and it’s illegal," Lowell said Friday in a statement to ABC News. "Punishing this prosecutor, a Trump appointee, for doing his job sends a clear and chilling message that anyone who dares uphold the law over politics will face the same fate."  The anticipated departure of Siebert, who Trump nominated for his position in May, has thrown one of the country's most prominent prosecutor's offices into disarray, with the Trump administration so far unable to identify a viable successor to take over the sensitive position, sources familiar with the matter said. Maya Song, the office's First Assistant United States Attorney, is the next person in the office's line of succession, but senior DOJ and administration officials have discussed plans to dismiss her from her role, sources said. Song, a career prosecutor who joined the office in 2013, has served as the office's No. 2 prosecutor since last October.  Song also previously served in former Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco's office during the Biden administration.President Trump has repeatedly singled out Monaco and alleged, without evidence, that she played a leading role in directing the two federal prosecutions brought against him by then-special counsel Jack Smith, which were subsequently dismissed due to a long-standing DOJ policy that bars the prosecution of a sitting president.DOJ officials told ABC News Friday that career prosecutors responded to the news on Friday morning with alarm regarding the future of the prosecutors' office, which handles the bulk of the country's national security cases. Officials have raised concerns about the collateral damage from the expected firing, potentially including prosecutors walking out or resigning en masse.Popular ReadsSenate fails to advance bills to fund government as shutdown loomsSep 19, 4:05 PMSniper opens fire on Dallas ICE facility, killing 1 detainee, wounding 2: DHSSep 24, 6:39 PMNewly appointed US attorney will attempt to charge James Comey: SourcesSep 24, 5:45 PMThe White House has not commented on Siebert's job status. The move to fire Siebert because he refused to charge one of Trump's political rivals would mark an escalation in what the president's critics have called a retribution campaign, with ongoing investigations also targeting Sen. Adam Schiff and Federal Reserve Governor Lisa Cook. Trump has repeatedly accused James -- who successfully brought a civil fraud case against him last year and leads multiple lawsuits challenging his administration's policies -- of targeting him for political reasons, calling her "biased and corrupt." James is "a horror show who ran on the basis that she was going to get Trump before she even knew anything about me,” Trump said during his civil fraud trial in 2023. "This has to do with election interference, plain and simple. We have a corrupt attorney general in this state."Attorney General Letitia James sits in the courtroom during the civil fraud trial of former President Donald Trump at New York Supreme Court, Jan. 11, 2024, in New York.Seth Wenig/Pool/Getty ImagesFollowing a three-month trial, a New York judge concluded that Trump and his family had committed a decade of business fraud by overstating the value of their properties to get favorable loan terms, fining Trump and his sons nearly half a billion dollars. An appeals court subsequently tossed the financial penalty but upheld the finding that Trump committed fraud. Trump administration officials have argued that James committed mortgage fraud because one of the documents related to her 2023 home purchase, they say, falsely indicated the property would be her primary residence. The investigation began after Bill Pulte, the director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, sent the DOJ a criminal referral about James in April. "I believe this is riddled with mortgage fraud, and frankly, I think that's why she knew so much about the law in terms of how to go after President Trump," Pulte told Fox News last month. "She was the fraudster, not President Trump."  However, investigators have so far determined that the document -- a limited power of attorney form used by James' niece to sign documents on her behalf when James closed on the home -- was never considered by the loan officers who approved the mortgage, sources said.A former police officer with Washington, D.C.'s Metropolitan Police Department, Siebert graduated from law school in 2009 and has worked as an assistant United States attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia since 2010. In addition to serving as a line prosecutor, Siebert headed the office's organized drug crime task force and supervised the office's Richmond division from 2019 to 2024. Head of DOJ anti weaponization group calls on NY AG Letitia James to resignSiebert began serving as the interim U.S. attorney on Jan. 21 after the late Jessica Aber, who ran the office from 2021-25, resigned following President Trump's inauguration. Both of Virginia’s Democratic senators, Mark Warner and Tim Kaine, recommended Siebert to Trump in April, and Trump nominated him for the position in May."Mr. Siebert has dedicated his career to protecting public safety, from his work with the Washington, D.C., Metropolitan Police Department to his handling of violent crimes and firearms trafficking as a line Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia. With his experience and dedication to service, Mr. Siebert is equipped to handle the challenges and important obligations associated with this position," Warner and Kaine said in a statement in May, pledging to support his nomination.One of the most high-profile federal prosecutors' offices in the country, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Virginia serves over six million people with a staff of 300 prosecutors. Among the nation's fastest-moving trial courts, the Eastern District of Virginia often handles significant terrorism and intelligence-related cases because of its proximity to Washington and the multiple government offices in its jurisdiction.After his 120-day term as interim U.S. attorney expired in May, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia unanimously agreed to extend Siebert's tenure in the position.Related TopicsPresident TrumpSponsored Content by TaboolaPopular ReadsSniper opens fire on Dallas ICE facility, killing 1 detainee, wounding 2: DHSSep 24, 6:39 PMNewly appointed US attorney will attempt to charge James Comey: SourcesSep 24, 5:45 PMTrump admin live updates: Trump announces new tariffs on cabinets, trucks, drugsSep 25, 4:37 PMSenate fails to advance bills to fund government as shutdown loomsSep 19, 4:05 PMABC News Live24/7 coverage of breaking news and live eventsABC News NetworkPrivacy PolicyYour US State Privacy RightsChildren's Online Privacy PolicyInterest-Based AdsAbout Nielsen MeasurementTerms of UseDo Not Sell or Share My Personal InformationContact Us © 2025 ABC News