What're Your Top 4 CSS Properties? | CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
css properties opinion
What’re Your Top 4 CSS Properties?
Geoff Graham
on
Sep 10, 2025
Get affordable and hassle-free WordPress hosting plans with Cloudways — start your free trial today.
That’s what Donnie D’Amato asks in a recent post:
You are asked to build a website but you can use only 4 CSS properties, what are those?
This really got the CSS-Tricks team talking. It’s the nerdy version of “if you could only take one album with you on a remote island…” And everyone had a different opinion which is great because it demonstrates the messy, non-linear craft that is thinking like a front-end developer.
Seems like a pretty straightforward thing to answer, right? But like Donnie says, this takes some strategy. Like, say spacing is high on your priority list. Are you going to use margin? padding? Perhaps you’re leaning into layout and go with gap as part of a flexbox direction… but then you’re committing to display as one of your options. That can quickly eat up your choices!
Our answers are pretty consistent, but converged even more as the discussion wore on and all of us were coming at it with different priorities. I’ll share each person’s “gut” reaction because I like how raw it is. I think you’ll see that there’s always a compromise in the mix, but those compromises really reveal a person’s cards as far as what they think is most important in a situation with overly tight constraints.
Juan Diego Rodriguez
Juan and I came out pretty close to the same choices, as we’ll see in a bit:
font: Typography is a priority and we get a lot of constituent properties with this single shorthand.
padding: A little padding makes things breath and helps with visual separation.
background: Another shorthand with lots of styling possibilities in a tiny package.
color: More visual hierarchy.
But he was debating with himself a bit in the process:
Thinking about switching color with place-items, since it works in block elements. grid would need display, though).
Ryan Trimble
Ryan’s all about that bass structure:
display: This opens up a world of layouts, but most importantly flex.
flex-direction: It’s a good idea to consider multi-directional layouts that are easily adjustable with media queries.
width: This helps constrain elements and text, as well as divide up flex containers.
margin: This is for spacing that’s bit more versatile than gap, while also allowing us to center elements easily.
And Ryan couldn’t resist reaching a little out of bounds:
For automatic color theme support, and no extra CSS properties required: <meta name="color-scheme" content="dark light">
Danny Schwarz
Every team needs a wild card:
On the contrary I think I’d choose font, padding, and color. I wouldn’t even choose a 4th.
font: This isn’t a big surprise if you’re familiar with Danny’s writing.
padding: So far, Ryan’s the only one to eschew padding as a core choice!
color: Too bad this isn’t baked right into font!
I’ll also point out that Danny soon questioned his decision to use all four choices:
I supposed we’d need width to achieve a good line length.
Sunkanmi Fafowora
This is the first list to lean squarely into CSS Grid, allowing the grid shorthand to take up a choice in favor of having a complete layout system:
font: This is a popular one, right?
display: Makes grid available
grid: Required for this display approach
color: For sprinkling in text color where it might help
I love that Ryan and Sunkanmi are thinking in terms of structure, albeit in very different ways for different reasons!
Zell Liew
In Zell’s own words: “Really really plain and simple site here.”
font: Content is still the most important piece of information.
max-width: Ensures type measure is ok.
margin: Lets me play around with spacing.
color: This ensures there’s no pure black/white contrast that hurts the eyes. I’d love for background as well, but we only have four choices.
But there’s a little bit of nuance in those choices, as he explains: “But I’d switch up color for background on sites with more complex info that requires proper sectioning. In that case I’d also switch margin with padding.”
Amit Sheen
Getting straight to Amit’s selections:
font
color
background
color-scheme
The choices are largely driven by wanting to combat default user agent styles:
The thing is, if we only have four properties, we end up relying heavily on the user agents, and the only thing I’d really want to change is the fonts. But while we are at it, let’s add some color control. I’m not sure how much I’d actually use them, but it would be good to have them available.
Geoff Graham
Alright, I’m not quite as exciting now that you’ve seen everyone else’s choices. You’ll see a lot of overlap here:
font: A shorthand for a whopping SEVEN properties for massaging text styles.
color: Seems like this would come in super handy for establishing a visual hierarchy and distinguishing one element from another.
padding: I can’t live without a little breathing room between an element’s content box and its inner edge.
color-scheme: Good minimal theming that’ll work nicely alongside color and support the light-dark() function.
Clearly, I’m all in on typography. That could be a very good thing or it could really constrain me when it comes to laying things out. I really had to fight the urge to use display because I always find it incredibly useful for laying things out side-by-side that wouldn’t otherwise be possible with block-level elements.
Your turn!
Curious minds want to know! Which four properties would you take with you on a desert island?
TOC
Juan Diego Rodriguez
Ryan Trimble
Danny Schwarz
Sunkanmi Fafowora
Zell Liew
Amit Sheen
Geoff Graham
Your turn!
Psst! Create a DigitalOcean account and get $200 in free credit for cloud-based hosting and services.
Comments
Anderson Permalink to comment# September 10, 2025
display
grid
content
flex-direction
Reply
Sunkanmi Fafowora Permalink to comment# September 15, 2025
Thank YOU!
Another grid lover, come on!
pu239 Permalink to comment# September 10, 2025
I’m surprised no one has chosen border yet! Curved borders are all around us, can’t live without ’em!
So, my picks are:
1. color: This can serve as both foreground and background color.
2. border: Border radius! (Also cool borders)
3. display: Layouts, flex+grids. We can also (mis)use certain display properties to get basic alignment.
4. font: Need typography!
Runner ups:
– color-scheme: Come to the light-dark side! <3
– margin: Positioning; margin: auto for centering is one property instead of display: flex + justify-*. Plus many other layouts. But then you need another solution for making backgrounds colored.
– inset: Different way to control sizing (can be used in combination with color to make a background). But this requires the use of position.
Reply
Alec Permalink to comment# September 11, 2025
position
left
top
height
wid.. ah wait that’s 5.
Reply
Kamil Permalink to comment# September 11, 2025
Ryan Trimble my man ;)
Reply
Ryan Trimble Permalink to comment# September 12, 2025
Rishabh Singh Permalink to comment# September 11, 2025
Display
Font size
Color
Padding
Reply
George Permalink to comment# September 11, 2025
Font
color
background-color
display flex
Reply
Syed Muhammad Aans Permalink to comment# September 12, 2025
Flex
Wrap
Background
Transition
Reply
Alin-Gabriel Barbu Permalink to comment# September 13, 2025
margin
padding
background
color
Reply
Mark Gibson Permalink to comment# September 13, 2025
Grid
Flex
Background
Color
Reply
Vadim Chervoniak Permalink to comment# September 15, 2025
I couldn’t resist running this challenge through my own analyzer — Citrus (C³S) Analyzer that I built to uncover “real” CSS usage patterns from GitHub repos or any static site.
After scanning 54 repos / 113 CSS files (\~303 KB), my personal Top 4 CSS properties came out as:
transform (900 uses) → apparently I live and breathe animations & micro-interactions.
width (373) → structure + constraints everywhere.
display (319) → no UI skeleton without it.
height (290) → always chasing that elusive responsive balance.
I always thought I’d pick gap or font if I had to choose — but the data shows I’m actually more of a layout + motion developer at heart.
And since Citrus works with any static site URL too, you can point it at your favorite project (or even something like chatgpt.com) to see what its “real” CSS power props are. It’s kinda like Spotify Wrapped, but for CSS.
Reply
Geoff Graham Permalink to comment# September 15, 2025
Really interesting way to frame your choices! Shows what you typically depend on in your day-to-day.
Kshitija Shinde Permalink to comment# September 20, 2025
Background
Font
Color
Margin
Reply
Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name *
Email *
Website
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Copy and paste this code: micuno *
Leave this field empty
Δ
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top