4 reasons an ESP32 display beats an old tablet for a smart home dashboard
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
4 reasons an ESP32 display beats an old tablet for a smart home dashboard
By
Abhishek Kumar Mishra
Published 5 hours ago
Abhishek is an author at XDA who covers computing.
He has loved computers since he got the Lenovo G570 in 2012. Abhishek holds a master's degree in computer applications and began his writing career in 2018. He loves writing how-to articles, listicles, and informational posts on popular operating systems and web services.
He closely follows the Windows Insider program and tests new Insider builds to discover upcoming experimental features and upgrades. His past work includes long-term collaborations with reputed publications like Tom's Hardware, and Windows Latest.
When not writing anything, he is busy watching new episodes of One Piece or searching for something binge-worthy.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Custom smart home dashboards on an external screen reduce the need to access the actual system. You can create stunning dashboards that display all your metrics on a small screen, which sits on your desk, your bedside stand, or the kitchen countertop, and is easily accessible. Adding a touchscreen to the mix allows you to interact with the dashboard and control all the connected devices. The first impulsive thought that comes to mind is using an old phone or a tablet, or purchasing a low-spec one to serve as a dashboard display. However, it isn't always a wise choice. Using a mobile phone or tablet as a dashboard has its pitfalls, including poor customizability, high power consumption, power wastage, risk of electronic damage, and financial waste. Instead, an ESP32-powered touchscreen can avoid most problems and is highly integrable with any Home Assistant setup. Let's discuss why ignoring a tablet and picking an ESP32 display is a good idea while building an interactive smart home dashboard.
Fewer apps and restrictions
Easy to set up
If you use a tablet, be it an Android or an iPad, you're confined to the capabilities of the OS and apps. Apart from the Home Assistant app, you need the Fully Kiosk Browser and lockdown to make the device act as a dashboard completely. The latter allows you to confine the tablet to your custom dashboard, preventing any apps from taking over. It mimics the design of a smart home kiosk that focuses only on home/room devices. An ESP32-powered display can do all this without forcing you to set up multiple apps. You don't need to lock out functionality or waste a tablet’s performance just to display a dashboard. All programming happens inside the Home Assistant setup, and you can control what cards, buttons, and options appear on your dashboard. Since ample ESP32-powered touch displays are available now, you don't need to worry about setting up a circuit, figuring out voltage, and pairing the microcontroller with a display. The entire setup is available as a single unit, and some models even feature speaker and microphone ports, which are helpful for voice assistant features.
Cost-effective
A lean, budget-friendly setup
Unless you have a secret contact to buy used yet working tablets on eBay, using one as your smart home dashboard display can cost upwards of $100. Yes, cheaper and used tablets are available, but those will struggle to run apps, and the dashboard interaction won't be as smooth as expected. An ESP32 display has no heavy operating system, such as Android, running in the background. It has the sole purpose of displaying whatever you ask and doing what each button is mapped to. So, you can get by with the limited computing power of the ESP32 and still have stunning and interactive dashboards. Moreover, its exceptional integration with Home Assistant means you can directly install the ESPHome Device Builder and configure the microcontroller within the app. A small 5-7-inch display with ESP32 and other connection options won't cost more than $50 and still serve all your needs. You can invest the rest in other home automation sensors and gadgets rather than spending solely on a tablet that’ll become slow with each new OS update.
A battery is a burden
Always being powered on isn't good
Newer gen tablets offer overcharge protection, but they still aren't designed for always-on use cases. Old tablets don't provide this battery protection, and that's a concern. These features are available on high-end tablets, and I doubt you'll use an expensive tablet as a dashboard. You can set the tablet's screen to always-on mode with Fully Kiosk Browser, but the battery isn't ready for this test. It will continue to deteriorate and swell to the point where it becomes unusable due to continuous charging. On the other hand, an ESP32 display is directly powered by a 5V USB cable, and you don't need to worry about battery threats. An old phone charger will be enough for all its power needs. Also, you'll sleep or leave your home comfortably because there's no unwanted battery-associated risk. You don’t need to complicate your setup and think of ideas to automate the charging or figure out the current battery state.
Extensively customizable and power-frugal
Tweak to your heart’s content
The introduction of the LVGL libraries makes customization even better than you think. You aren't confined to the same mundane layout, appearance, or design, and can style elements as you wish. If you want better graphical performance, choose a model with better specs. The ESP32-S3 can help you achieve stunning dashboards for your Home Assistant setup or other projects, like displaying essential PC stats. I also like the power-frugal nature of ESP32, which makes it fit for such projects where its only task is to display and interact with connected devices. A small display with the microcontroller won’t surge your electricity usage by a noticeable margin.
ESP32 dashboards trump old tablets
A low-power display with granular customization is exceptional as a dashboard setup. You can get displays in multiple sizes, from small to large, and place them in various locations, with custom pages. Most offer easy wall mounting and don’t force you into learning circuitry before starting a project. There are even options that connect directly to a wall outlet, eliminating the need to plug into a USB. Do give the ESP32 displays a try.
Phones, smartwatches, and everything else
tablets
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
12 hours ago
This container and network visualiser is a must-install for every Docker user
16 hours ago
6 abandoned gadgets that proved useful to my Raspberry Pi
1 day ago
Please don't expose your new NAS to the internet
1 day ago
5 ‘just-enough’ Docker containers I use on every PC
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Review: Dying Light: The Beast is the true Dying Light sequel I'd been waiting for
Undervolting your GPU can actually improve performance
7 ways I realized my NAS was better than Dropbox for work files
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.