image optimization Archives - CSS-Tricks
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles Tagged
image optimization
Top Tags
SVGaccessibilityWordPressperformanceJavaScriptreactanimationgridpolltypographycustom propertiesjQueryformsvuecss-tricksCSSlayoutcolornetlifyweb components
15 Articles
Sorting
{
'order' =>
DESC
ASC
,
'orderby' =>
date
modified
rand
comment_count
}
Direct link to the article image-set()
image optimization
image-set()
The CSS image-set() function allows the browser to display the best image from a given set of images.
Gabriel Shoyombo
on
Sep 4, 2025
Direct link to the article A Look at the Cloudinary WordPress Plugin
cloudinary image optimization images WordPress
A Look at the Cloudinary WordPress Plugin
Cloudinary (the media hosting and optimization service) has a brand new version (v3) of its WordPress plugin that has really nailed it. First, a high-level look at the biggest things this plugin does:
It takes over your media handling. Images …
❥ Sponsored
(Written by Chris Coyier)
Direct link to the article Frameworks Helping Image Usage
image optimization images performance
Frameworks Helping Image Usage
I recently blogged about how images are hard and it ended up being a big ol’ checklist of things that you could/should think about and implement when placing images on websites.
I think it’s encouraging to see frameworks — these …
Chris Coyier
on
Sep 9, 2021
Direct link to the article How to Show Images on Click
image optimization lazy loading perceived performance performance
How to Show Images on Click
Most images on the web are superfluous. If I might be a jerk for a bit, 99% of them aren’t even that helpful at all (although there are rare exceptions). That’s because images don’t often complement the text they’re …
Robin Rendle
on
May 27, 2021
Direct link to the article Maximally optimizing image loading for the web in 2021
image optimization images performance
Maximally optimizing image loading for the web in 2021
Malte Ubl’s list for:
8 image loading optimization techniques to minimize both the bandwidth used for loading images on the web and the CPU usage for image display.…
Chris Coyier
on
Feb 18, 2021
Direct link to the article Converting and Optimizing Images From the Command Line
command line image optimization terminal
Converting and Optimizing Images From the Command Line
Images take up to 50% of the total size of an average web page. And if images are not optimized, users end up downloading extra bytes. And if they’re downloading extra bytes, the site not only takes that much more …
Ravgeet Dhillon
on
Dec 21, 2020
Direct link to the article Optimizing Image Depth
image compression image optimization png
Optimizing Image Depth
Something I learned (or, I guess, re-learned) this year is how important it is to pay close attention to the bit depth of images. Way back in the day, we used to obsessively choose between 2-, 4-, or 8-bit …
Eric Meyer
on
Dec 18, 2020
Direct link to the article In-Browser Performance Linting With Feature Policies
feature policy image optimization linting performance
In-Browser Performance Linting With Feature Policies
Here’s a neat idea from Tim Kadlec. He uses the Modheader extension to toggle custom headers in his browser. It also lets him see when images are too big and need to be optimized in some way. This is a …
Robin Rendle
on
Feb 26, 2020
Direct link to the article Workflow Considerations for Using an Image Management Service
image optimization images performance responsive images
Workflow Considerations for Using an Image Management Service
There are all these sites out there that want to help you with your images. They do things like optimize your images and help you serve them performantly.
That's a very good thing. By any metric, images are a major slice of the resources on websites, and we're notoriously bad at optimizing them and doing all the things we could to lower the performance hit from them. So you use some service to help you deliver images better. Smart. Many of them will make managing and optimizing images a lot easier. But I don't consider them a no-brainer. There is a lot to think about, like making choices that don't paint you into a corner.
Chris Coyier
on
Oct 16, 2019
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top