Why I recommend this Windows mini PC to casual users and professionals alike (and it's priced well) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
PCs
Why I recommend this Windows mini PC to casual users and professionals alike (and it's priced well)
I love a good mini computer, especially when its performance belies its size. The A9 Max from Geekom does just that.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 9:02 a.m. PT
Geekom A9 Max AI
ZDNET's key takeaways The Geekom A9 Max AI is available for $999 on Amazon.This tiny PC has tons of power to spare and can even work well with the inefficiencies of Windows.However, its fans can be quite loud. $999 at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.When I review small form factor PCs, I tend to keep my expectations in check. Given that I use a monstrous System76 Thelio desktop for most of my work, it's generally a challenge for such a tiny, shiny box to match. In fact, I've never met a tiny PC that could outperform my Thelio.Also: I found a mini PC that performs like a speed demon (and comes in bold colors)The GEEKOM A9 Max AI Mini certainly gave it a run for its money. And while being hampered by an inferior OS. Note to all companies sending me PCs to review: Please send me machines with Linux preinstalled. Not only do I find it far easier to review computers with Linux, but it also shows consumers that you do offer open-source options.With that request out of the way, let's talk about the A9 Max AI.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS The Geekom A9 Max AI mini PC This tiny PC packs a serious punch in power and takes up very little room.
details
View at Amazon My experienceNaturally, because this machine sported the Windows operating system, it took a long time before I could even use it. There were updates aplenty, logging in with my Microsoft account, blah, blah. You know the drill.As you probably noticed, the name of the PC includes AI, and I'm sure you can guess what that means. That's right, this little buddy was built for "unmatched AI performance." What does that even mean? Also: 5 of the easiest, quickest Linux distros to install - and I've tried them allConsider this: most people who use AI aren't using it locally; they'll be using ChatGPT or one of the many cloud-based services. According to the description, the AMD Ryzen AI 9 HX 370 processor "delivers an industry-leading 80 TOPS of total AI acceleration, featuring a next-gen XDNA 2 AI engine that pumps out 50 TOPS of dedicated NPU performance, enabling seamless Copilot+ experiences, local large model deployment, and advanced content generation."Yeah, of course. And why wouldn't it, right?
The rear of the A9 Max AI PC. Jack Wallen/ZDNETThe thing that jumped out at me is the "local large model deployment," so I did exactly what you might expect: I installed Ollama and downloaded one of the bigger LLMs to see how well it would perform. The model in question was the 9GB deepseek-r1:8b, and I pulled it for both the A9 Max AI and my System76 Thelio, running Pop!_OS. After the model was pulled, I asked each the same question (both being used from the command line:What is Linux?It's a fairly straightforward and simple question. So, how did they fare? Here's a breakdown.Even though both machines used the same LLM, deepseek-r1:8b running on Linux produced an answer that was considerably longer and more in-depth. On top of that, the answer produced by the A9 Max AI suffered from terrible grammar and created far more mistakes than that the Thelio's.As far as the times, they looked like this:Thelio: 2:42.38A9 Max AI: 01:07.69Unfortunately, the times don't really tell an accurate story, given how much more in-depth the Thelio answer was. Also: You can try Linux without ditching Windows first - here's howFrom an overall experience, my System76 Thelio was much more up to the task of running AI. To be fair, the A9 Max AI was hampered by Windows 11, which would make a big difference, given that Windows 11 consumes far more system resources than Linux.I then tried to really push the A9 Max AI and use the gpt-oss:120b model, which is considerably larger and more capable than the DeepSeek model I originally used. I thought this would task the A9 Max AI beyond what anyone would use it for. The results? Well, it was very slow, but that should be expected by such a massive model on a small machine. The good news is that the results were considerably more accurate. I could hear the fans running at high speeds to keep the CPU cool, and the end result took nearly 5 minutes to complete.But given that this machine doesn't have a powerful NVIDIA GPU, it was still pretty impressive that it was able to run the model to be with.Let's get beyond the AI issue and look at this from a more traditional user experience.Installing and running applications
You'll find plenty of USB ports on this baby. Jack Wallen/ZDNETI installed several applications on the A9 Max AI and found they all installed very quickly and ran quite well. I installed LibreOffice, GIMP, Msty, and VirtualBox to see how well the A9 Max stood up to what I'm accustomed to. In the end, everything installed quickly and ran smoothly. With the applications ready, I decided to create a virtual instance of Ubuntu using VirtualBox to see how well it performed. I gave the VM 10GB of RAM and 4 CPU cores (out of 32GB of RAM and 24 CPU cores).Also: 7 things every Linux beginner should know before downloading their first distroAfter the installation finished (took about 2 minutes), I started the VM to see how well it would run. During the installation of the Ubuntu guest, the fans on the A9 Max AI were at their loudest, so under load, this is not a quiet machine. I was able to hear the fans running from within another room of the house. If quiet is a necessity (and you really push your machine), this might not be the computer for you. If sheer power and a small size are what you're looking for, this mini PC is a great option.After the VM was created, I fired it up. It should come as no surprise (especially given the resources I allocated for the machine) that the Ubuntu guest ran very well. Even with the VM up and running, installed applications performed quite well.I should add this: The Ubuntu guest OS ran circles around Windows 11, even though it had a third of the RAM and a sixth of the CPU cores. That alone validated my supposition that Windows was a hamper.ZDNET's buying adviceAt first blush, a mini PC selling for $999 might seem like a bad bargain, but when you consider the performance you get with the A9 Max AI, the cost becomes less of a factor. This little machine handled everything I could throw at it, and the only reason it blinked was because of Windows 11. If I had taken the time to install Linux on this machine, I can imagine it would perform insanely well. Unfortunately, Windows is a resource hog and doesn't achieve nearly the efficiency of Linux.That being said, the Geekom A9 Max AI mini PC seriously impressed me. If I were on the hunt for a powerful PC that took up next to no space, this might well be my first choice.Also: Want to save your old computer? Try one of these 8 Linux distros for freeBest desktops deals of the week
Dell Tower ECT1250 Intel Ultra 7 512GB SSD 16GB RAM Desktop:  $750 (save $150)
Dell Tower Plus EBT2250 Intel Ultra 7 RTX 3050 1TB SSD 16GB RAM Desktop:  $1,000 (save $350)
Lenovo IdeaCentre Tower Intel i7 14th Gen 512GB SSD 16GB RAM Desktop:  $684 (save $316)
HP OmniDesk Intel i7 14th Gen 2TB SSD 16GB RAM Desktop (Meteor Silver):  $800 (save $400)
Alienware Aurora ACT1250 Intel Ultra 7 RTX 5070 Ti 1TB SSD 32GB RAM Desktop:  $1,850 (save $450) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Geekom A9 Max AI mini PC tech specsProcessor: AMD Ryzen AI 9 HX 370 (configurable TDP up to 54W) Graphics: AMD Radeon 890M (RDNA 3.5, 16 compute units) AI Performance: Up to 80 TOPS of total AI performance, with a dedicated AI engine Memory: Up to 128GB of dual-channel DDR5-5600MHz RAM Storage: 1 x M.2 2280 PCIe 4.0 NVMe SSD slot, 1 x M.2 2230 PCIe 4.0 NVMe SSD slot Connectivity: Wi-Fi 7 and Bluetooth 5.4 2 x 2.5 GbE RJ45 ports  Multiple USB ports, including USB 4.0 Type-C ports with DP-Alt-Mode and Power Delivery 2 x HDMI 2.1 ports Full-size SD card reader Operating System: Windows 11 24H2 Dimensions: 135 × 132 × 46.9 mmFeatured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How to get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and 3 weeks to act
I put away my iPad just minutes after testing this $120 Android tablet
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use