This ultra-compact keyboard with Qi wireless charging is now just $36
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This ultra-compact keyboard with Qi wireless charging is now just $36
Credit: Source: ZAGG
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 16, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
ZAGG Pro Keyboard 12
$36
$70
Save $34
A keyboard that's great for all uses, and compatible with pretty much any device with a popular following. The feature that makes this one stand out is its Qi wireless charging, and it's newly discounted price that drops it to just $36.
$36 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
Zagg is probably best known for its screen protectors, but also offers a wide range of accessories for mobile devices. And while you can find keyboards from plenty of other brands, the Pro Keyboard 12 features a nice perk of being able to charge the device using Qi wireless charging. Of course, you also get a keyboard that's comfortable to type on, along with compatibility with a number of high-profile devices. And perhaps what makes this accessory interesting at this particular point is the huge discount we're seeing from Amazon, knocking nearly 50% off the original retail price, falling to just $36 for a limited time.
Compact, feature-packed, and Qi wireless charging
Credit: Source: ZAGG
When it comes to the design, you're getting something that has a little more character. But the important thing here is that the typing experience is quite comfortable. The Pro Keyboard 12 works with Windows, macOS, Chrome OS, iOS, and Android. So no matter what device you have, you can feel confident that this keyboard will work with it.
The great part is that you can pair up to three devices at one time with this keyboard, making it easy to switch from one device to another. You also get excellent battery life, with up to three months of use before it needs to be charged. Again, you'll have two options here, with wired charging via USB-C, and wireless using Qi.
The latter is a bit more novel to find on a keyboard and could make charging this keyboard as easy as sliding it onto a charging puck when you're done for the day. Not a bad keyboard to have for home, office, or on the go. So, if you've been looking for something new, this keyboard might be just what you're looking for.
Keyboards & Mice
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 15, 2025
3 reasons to pick Cronos: The New Dawn over Hell is Us this month, and 3 things the latter does better
Sep 15, 2025
3 reasons why I switched back to a flat monitor after using a curved one
Sep 14, 2025
Why I replaced WPS Office with this lightweight alternative and saved my sanity
Sep 15, 2025
I tried dozens of Pocket alternatives, and I keep coming back to this self-hosted tool
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
47 minutes ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Windows 10 goes out with a whimper as its final non-security update clears up a few loose ends
One week in, these mods are making Dying Light: The Beast so much better
I use these Microsoft Teams tricks for flawless communication
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.