This smooth parkour FPS with 96% positive reviews is just over $1 on Steam for a limited time
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This smooth parkour FPS with 96% positive reviews is just over $1 on Steam for a limited time
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 14, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
What's cooler than an FPS with a solid movement system? Trick question, there is nothing. If an FPS lets you jump around the arena and parkour to your heart's content, it usually gets a pretty high rating from me. There's a good reason why I fell in love with Titanfall 2, and it wasn't just because of the mechs. If you're like me and want to jump, slide, and shoot your way through waves of enemies, Severed Steel is currently on a huge sale on Steam. It's currently 95% off and costs just over $1, so if you're itching for your next fave game, this may be your best bet.
Severed Steel is just $1.29 on Steam right now
If you've never heard of the game before, Severed Steel is all about taking down baddies and looking good while doing it. It also features a cool voxel system, which lets you shoot chunks out of the scenery. Think the Matrix lobby scene, except it's faster and more cyberpunk. Here's how the devs describe the game:
Severed Steel is a single-player FPS featuring a fluid stunt system, destructible voxel environments, loads of bullet time, and a unique one-armed protagonist. It's you, your trigger finger, and a steel-toed boot against a superstructure full of bad guys. Chain together wall runs, dives, flips, and slides to take every last enemy down.
Play as Steel, a nimble, one-armed sharpshooter on a mission. There is no reloading – pick your shots well and be ready to pry a loaded weapon from your enemies' cold dead hands. Dodge bullets, leap off walls, slide kick, throw weapons – do whatever it takes to come out on top in intense and frenzied firefights. Punch through thick concrete with .50 cal slugs, or make big holes in things with your arm cannon. Carve your own path through completely destructible levels.
Sounds good, right? Well, it seems that Steam's players agree. At the time of writing, the game is enjoying a lifetime review score of 96% positive reviews, which is pretty rare for games to have. And if you're still on the fence, you can't go wrong with its price tag of just $1.29 on Steam for a limited time. You have until September 27th to grab it, so that's plenty of time to make your mind up. And if you want more first-person goodness, check out these classic Doom-like FPS games we loved playing after growing up in the 90s.
Severed Steel
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
FPS
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
79/100
Critics Rec:
78%
Released
May 13, 2021
ESRB
M For Mature 17+ Due To Blood, Strong Language, Violence
Developer(s)
Greylock Studio
Publisher(s)
Merge Games Limited
Engine
Unreal Engine
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 12, 2025
6 features that make Batocera the undeniable king of retro emulation operating systems
Sep 13, 2025
6 changes I made to Windows 11 with Winaero Tweaker
Sep 13, 2025
This browser extension completely changed how I use Obsidian
Sep 13, 2025
Kate is the IDE you needed to replace VS Code
More from our brands
Resident Evil Meets Alone In The Dark In This Criminally Underrated Survival Horror Game That's Just $2 On Switch
Atomfall: 8 Combat Tips
Death Stranding 2: How To Perform Stealth Takedowns
Best Free Co-Op Games You Can Play On Steam
Ubisoft Hidden Gem Gets Major Discount On Steam
30 Best Co-Op Games On Steam (April 2025)
Helldivers 2: All Warbonds, Ranked
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
30 minutes ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I built a calendar-aware smart home with Home Assistant
5 ‘just-enough’ open-source apps I’m using to finally escape the Google ecosystem
5 problems you didn't know a CMOS reset could fix
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.