Nvidia announces $5 billion investment in Intel along with collaboration - CBS News
Latest
U.S.
Free Speech Debate
CDC Vaccine Vote
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
MoneyWatch
|
Managing Your Money
CBS News Price Tracker
Watch CBS News
MoneyWatch
Nvidia announces $5 billion investment in Intel along with collaboration
Updated on:
September 18, 2025 / 12:12 PM EDT
/ AP
Nvidia beats earnings expectations
Nvidia reports on earnings expectations, AI bubble concerns remain
04:03
Nvidia, the world's leading chipmaker, announced on Thursday that it's investing $5 billion in Intel and will collaborate with the struggling semiconductor company.The two companies will team up to work on custom data centers that form the backbone of artificial intelligence infrastructure as well as personal computer products, Nvidia said in a press release.Nvidia said it will spend $5 billion to buy Intel common stock at $23.28 a share. The investment, which is subject to regulatory approvals, comes a month after the U.S. government took a 10% stake in Intel. "This historic collaboration tightly couples NVIDIA's AI and accelerated computing stack with Intel's CPUs and the vast x86 ecosystem — a fusion of two world-class platforms," Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang said. "Together, we will expand our ecosystems and lay the foundation for the next era of computing."The two companies said they will work on "seamlessly connecting" their architectures.
In morning trading, Intel shares jumped 25%, its biggest one-day percentage gain in decades. Nvidia shares added 2%.For data centers, Intel will make custom chips that Nvidia will use in its AI infrastructure platforms. While for PC products, Intel will build chips that integrate Nvidia technology.The agreement provides a lifeline for Intel, which was a Silicon Valley pioneer that enjoyed decades of growth as its processors powered the personal computer boom, but fell into a slump after missing the shift to the mobile computing era unleashed by the iPhone's 2007 debut. Intel fell even farther behind in recent years amid the artificial intelligence boom that's propelled Nvidia into the world's most valuable company. Intel lost nearly $19 billion last year and another $3.7 billion in the first six months of this year, and expects to slash its workforce by a quarter by the end of 2025.
The U.S. government stepped in last month to secure a 10% stake, making it one of Intel's biggest shareholders. Federal officials said they invested in Intel in order to bolster U.S. technology and domestic manufacturing. The deal is "bullish for U.S. tech," Wedbush Securities analyst Daniel Ives said in a client note."This is a game-changer deal for Intel as it now brings them front and center into the AI game," Ives said. "Along with the recent U.S. government investment for 10% (equity stake in Intel) this has been a golden few weeks for Intel after years of pain and frustration for investors."Nvidia, meanwhile, has soared because its specialized chips are underpinning the artificial intelligence boom. The chips, known as graphics processing units, or GPUs, are highly effective at developing powerful AI systems. The deal between the two chipmakers comes as China moves to be less dependent on U.S. semiconductor technology. This week, Chinese officials reportedly forbade several large domestic technology companies from purchasing Nvidia chips, and Huawei announced that it was expanding its development of AI chips and manufacturing.While Nvidia and Intel will work together to develop new chips, a manufacturing deal has yet to be struck between the two. The potential access to Intel's chip foundries by Nvidia poses a risk to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, which currently manufactures the tech giant's flagship processors.
AI: Artificial Intelligence
More
Nvidia announces $5 billion investment in Intel along with collaboration
Ohio State University launches initiative requiring that students study AI
How AI is affecting early-career workers
How is artificial intelligence affecting job searches?
New study sheds light on what kinds of workers are losing jobs to AI
Technology
Nvidia
Jensen Huang
Artificial Intelligence
© 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
More from CBS News
Hyundai to continue with $2.7 billion expansion of plant raided by ICE
Uber to pilot food delivery by drone through partnership with Flytrex
Parents testify to Congress on AI chatbots after their teens died by suicide
Featured
Tropical Storm Gabrielle Forecast Maps
Death At Epic Universe
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue