WHO Organizational structure
Skip to main content
Global
Regions
WHO Regional websites
Africa
Americas
South-East Asia
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
Western Pacific
When autocomplete results are available use up and down arrows to review and enter to select.
Select language
Select language
English
العربية
中文
Français
Русский
Español
Home
Health Topics
All topicsABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Resources
Fact sheets
Facts in pictures
Multimedia
Podcasts
Publications
Questions and answers
Tools and toolkits
Popular
Dengue
Endometriosis
Excessive heat
Herpes
Mental disorders
Mpox
Countries
All countriesABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ
Regions
Africa
Americas
Europe
Eastern Mediterranean
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
WHO in countries
Data by country
Country presence
Country cooperation strategies
Country office profiles
Strengthening country offices
Newsroom
All news
News releases
Statements
Campaigns
Events
Feature stories
Press conferences
Speeches
Commentaries
Photo library
Headlines
Emergencies
Focus on
Cholera
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Greater Horn of Africa
Israel and occupied Palestinian territory
Mpox
Sudan
Ukraine
Latest
Disease Outbreak News
Situation reports
Rapid risk assessments
Weekly Epidemiological Record
WHO in emergencies
Surveillance
Alert and response
Operations
Research
Funding
Partners
Health emergency appeals
International Health Regulations
Independent Oversight and Advisory Committee
Data
Data at WHO
Data hub
Global Health Estimates
Mortality
Health inequality
Dashboards
Triple Billion Progress
Health Inequality Monitor
Delivery for impact
COVID-19 dashboard
Data collection
Classifications
SCORE
Surveys
Civil registration and vital statistics
Routine health information systems
Harmonized health facility assessment
GIS centre for health
Reports
World Health Statistics
UHC global monitoring report
About WHO
About WHO
Partnerships
Committees and advisory groups
Collaborating centres
Technical teams
Organizational structure
Who we are
Our work
Activities
Initiatives
General Programme of Work
WHO Academy
Funding
Investment in WHO
WHO Foundation
Accountability
External audit
Financial statements
Internal audit and investigations
Programme Budget
Results reports
Governance
Governing bodies
World Health Assembly
Executive Board
Member States Portal
Home/
About WHO/
Structure
Where we work
WHO organizational structure
WHO / Jess Hoffman
Different views of the WHO headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
©
Credits
A global presence that puts countries at the centre of our workFrom our longstanding Geneva headquarters to our 6 regional offices, 150 country offices and other offices around the world, WHO plays an essential role improving local health systems and coordinating the global response to health threats. Discover how
we work to support the efforts of governments and partners to ensure everyone, everywhere has an equal chance at a safe and healthy life.
Regional officesWHO Member States are grouped into 6 regions. Each region has a regional office.Regional websites
WHO AfricaWHO AmericasWHO Eastern Mediterranean
WHO EuropeWHO South-East AsiaWHO Western Pacific
Country officesWHO collaborates with our Member States to provide on-the-ground planning, implementing and monitoring of health programmes. Today, more than half of WHO staff work in country offices. Learn more about our work with countriesCountry overviews
HeadquartersWHO’s global office is located in Geneva, Switzerland.
Geneva headquarters
Since our inception in 1948, WHO has been hosted by the Swiss Federation. Our main building was inaugurated in 1966. Today, the campus is home to 2400 employees. The headquarters is currently undergoing modernization, which will be completed in 2025. The building renovation aims
to increase site efficiency and decrease the operational budget by investing in a long-term modern, high standard and energy-efficient building.
OrganigrammeLeadership
Other officesIn addition to our Geneva headquarters, WHO currently operates several outposted offices that operate across country borders.
WHO Hub for Pandemic and Epidemic Intelligence, Berlin, Germany
The WHO Hub for Pandemic and Epidemic Intelligence supports countries, regional and global actors to address future pandemic and epidemic risks with better access to data, better analytical capacities, and better tools and insights for decision-making. Based in Berlin, the Hub is supported by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Learn more
WHO’s office at the United Nations, New York, USA
Our office at the United Nations facilitates WHO’s participation in meetings of the UN Security Council, the General Assembly of the UN, and the UN Economic and Social Council, as well as other intergovernmental forums, interagency briefings and, events. Colleagues working at the office also interact regularly with the UN Press Corp.
Learn more
WHO Lyon Office, France
The WHO Lyon Office is part of the Department of Country Readiness Strengthening under the WHO Emergency Preparedness Division.
Learn more
WHO Centre for Health Development, Kobe, Japan
WHO’s global research centre fosters innovative solutions and translates them into policies and actions to achieve sustainable universal health coverage.
Learn more
WHO Academy, Lyon, France
The WHO Academy is the World Health Organization’s state-of-the-art lifelong learning centre, bringing the very latest innovations in adult learning to global health. Now under development with the support of France, the Academy will scale up learning for impact through online, in-person and blended learning programmes, reaching millions of health workers and others all over the world.
Learn more
WHO Global Centre for Traditional Medicine, Jamnagar, India
The WHO Global Centre for Traditional Medicine aims to harness the potential of traditional medicine from across the world through modern science and technology to improve the health of people and the planet. The Centre is supported financially by the Government of India.
Learn more
Global Service Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
The Global Service Centre provides administrative and IT support services to all staff and WHO offices worldwide.
Learn more
WHO Budapest Centre, Hungary
The WHO Budapest Centre was initially established to support WHO’s internal justice system. It now also hosts several business operations functions.
Learn more
Global Conference and Training Center, Tunis, Tunisia
The Global Conference and Training Center is an administrative support centre. It provides administrative and logistics support for WHO meetings and travel worldwide. It also provides remote administrative support to headquarters in a wide range of areas such as human resources, procurement, finance and general administration.
Regions
Africa
Americas
Eastern Mediterranean
Europe
South-East Asia
Western Pacific
Policies
Cybersecurity
Ethics
Information disclosure
Permissions and licensing
Preventing sexual exploitation
Terms of use
About us
Careers
Frequently asked questions
Library
Procurement
Publications
Contact us
Newsletters
Report misconduct
Privacy policy
©
2025
WHO