The Keychron Q1 Pro gets a rare 20$ discount
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
The Keychron Q1 Pro gets a rare 20$ discount
Credit: Source: Keychron
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 10, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Source: Keychron
Keychron Q1 Pro
$168
$210
Save $42
Wireless
Bluetooth only
Backlight
South-facing RGB LED
Battery
4,000mAh
Num Pad
None
Switch Type
Keychron K Pro Red, Keychron K Pro Brown, Keychron K Pro Banana
The Keychron Q1 Pro is the mechanical keyboard to choose for those who want to do some modding. It's available as a bare bones kit or a full assembled keyboard, depending on which you'd prefer. Feel free to swap out just about anything inside the chassis.
$168 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
You can't go wrong with the Keychron Q1 Pro. It's a fantastic keyboard that gets everything straight out of the box. Of course, if you want to customize it, that's also an option. The only problem is that this mechanical keyboard is pretty expensive, costing a whopping $210, putting it out of reach for most people that want to grab a new keyboard. With that said, the Keychron Q1 Pro is now seeing a stellar discount that drops it down to $168. This is one of the lowest prices that we've seen for this keyboard, so be sure to pick one up if you've been on the lookout.
Everything you need and more
In this day and age, it's easy to go with the cheap option that's still pretty good. And we love that those options are available, because not everyone wants to spend a lot on accessories. But if you're someone that's glued to their keyboard all day, every day, then the Keychron Q1 Pro is going to completely change the way you experience typing.
Not only are you getting a keyboard that's built solid thanks to its full aluminum body, but you also get additional features like a double-gasket design, pre-lubed mechanical tactile brown switches, a PCB-mounted screw-in stabilizer, PBT keycaps, and so much more. If you're not familiar with all this, just know that all of these elements contribute to a more comfortable typing experience.
You can use the Keychron Q1 wired or wireless, and there's the ability to connect up to three devices, which makes it easy to switch from one device to another. There's support for Windows, macOS, Linux, Android, and Apple devices. The battery lasts up to 100 hours, and charging is done via the device's USB-C port. The keyboard is also easy to program if you want to make changes, with support for QMK and VIA.
While it's still a pricey investment, we think that you'll love the way the Keychron Q1 Pro performs. So grab it while it's on sale, and enjoy one of the best mechanical keyboards for less.
Keyboards & Mice
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
5 apps that are way better on Linux than they are on Windows
Sep 9, 2025
I set up split-horizon DNS for my home lab, here's how
Sep 8, 2025
Black Ops 7 doesn't need to change Call of Duty multiplayer, just keep us playing for longer
Sep 8, 2025
ESP32 counterfeit devices technically exist, but that's not the full story
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
55 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Windows updates are boring again, and I'm happier than ever to be on macOS
These 3 games were expected to fail, but turned out to be legendary classics
5 systemd tweaks that really boost my boot time
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.