Micro Dramas Like ReelShort, DramaBox to Make $1.3B in US This Year - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Media
These salacious, bite-sized soaps have become a $1.3 billion business in the US
By
Lucia Moses
In one of DramaBox's top-performing titles, Lucy, adopted by a werewolf family, is forced into an arranged marriage.
DramaBox
2025-09-17T19:36:58Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Micro drama apps are projected to make $3 billion globally this year, excluding China, per Owl & Co.
The US leads the micro drama market outside China, generating $1.3 billion in revenue.
These dramas are movie-length soapy titles chopped into bite-sized episodes meant for phones.
Micro dramas, the buzzy format awash with billionaires behaving badly and werewolf lovers, are raking in cash.
The mobile-focused shows have caught Hollywood's eye in recent months, and a new report from streaming consulting firm Owl & Co. hints at why. The short-drama apps are on track to make $3 billion in revenue this year globally, excluding China, Owl estimated. That's nearly triple their haul last year."Short dramas are no longer an experiment," Owl founder Hernan Lopez said. "They're a $3 billion industry — and that's before any of the best known IP, brands, talent, or producers get in."
About three-fourths of that revenue comes from viewers, who are prompted to pay up after seeing a certain number of episodes for free, Owl said. Most of the rest comes from advertising.Other key stats Owl shared:The US is the biggest market for micro dramas outside China, accounting for $1.3 billion20 apps, including market leaders ReelShort and DramaBox, account for about 90% of the revenueThe top 20 apps reach 250 million monthly active users, or about 10% of US mobile usersFew dramas reach hit status. ReelShort's most popular title, "The Double Life of My Billionaire Husband," hit almost 500 million views. But of 1,200 series tracked by Owl, only 2% crossed 100 million views.
The phenomenon popularized in Asia is still small next to streaming giants like Netflix — which made about $11 billion in revenue last quarter — or YouTube, but its rise has demonstrated there's a market for scripted storytelling in bite-sized episodes. Owl's report focused on the industry outside China, where a state regulator estimated the market stands at about $7 billion.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Short-form scripted shows have existed for a long time, but have been generally ignored by the big Hollywood studios and major streaming platforms because the economics didn't support the format. The most infamous recent example, Quibi, shut down in six months despite raising $1.75 billion because its high-quality and high-cost scripted series designed for the mobile phone didn't work as a subscription business.Quibi isn't the only reason some in Hollywood are skeptical of the format. It's not yet clear how these dramas could fit into the traditional film and TV system, which emphasizes high production values and guild-protected talent. Micro dramas are cheap to make and often use non-union talent, costing about $100,000 to $300,000 for a full-length movie, chopped up into 60- to 90-second episodes.
Along with low production values, storylines are often repetitive and exaggerated, and can be problematic. Guys slapping women is a common theme, for instance.Some of the apps say they want to expand beyond their soap-opera cores to new formats and genres. ReelShort has been exploring shows to appeal to young men and recently made a movie based on Luigi Mangione, while DramaBox said it's looking at animation and family content."We are looking to expand from our current core genres into more diversified categories," Richard Zhou, DramaBox's head of global content, recently told Business Insider.
If they can do so effectively remains an open question.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account