Booking.com:
About Booking.com.
Skip to main content
USD
Choose your currency.
Your current currency is U.S. Dollar
Choose your language.
Your current language is English (US)
Get help with your reservation
List your property
Register
Sign in
Stays
Flights
Flight + Hotel
Car rental
Attractions
Airport taxis
About Booking.com™
selected
Legal
Digital Services Act
Digital Markets Act
Accessibility Statement
Terms of Service
How We Work
Offices Worldwide
Contact Us
Press Center
Career Opportunities
Sustainability at Booking.com
Add Your Property
Booking.com for Business
Extranet Log-in
Become an Affiliate
Supplier Code of Conduct
About Booking.com™
Founded in 1996 in Amsterdam, Booking.com has grown from a small Dutch start-up to one of the world’s leading digital travel companies. Part of Booking Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ: BKNG), the mission of Booking.com is to make it easier for everyone to experience the world.
By investing in technology that takes the friction out of travel, Booking.com seamlessly connects millions of travelers to memorable experiences, a variety of transportation options, and incredible places to stay – from homes to hotels, and much more. As one of the world’s largest travel marketplaces for both established brands and entrepreneurs of all sizes, Booking.com enables properties around the world to reach a global audience and grow their businesses.
Booking.com is available in 43 languages and offers more than 28 million reported accommodation listings, including over 6.6 million homes, apartments, and other unique places to stay. Wherever you want to go and whatever you want to do, Booking.com makes it easy and supports you with 24/7 customer support.
Booking.com B.V. is based in Amsterdam in the Netherlands and supported internationally by 198 offices in over 70 countries around the world: Accra - Amman - Amsterdam - Antalya - Athens - Atlanta - Auckland - Bangalore - Bangkok - Barcelona - Beijing - Berlin - Bilbao - Bogotá - Bolzano - Bordeaux - Boston - Bratislava - Brisbane - Bristol - Brussels - Bucharest - Budapest - Buenos Aires - Cairo - Calgary - Cambridge - Cancún - Cape Town - Casablanca - Catania - Chengdu - Chicago - Colombo - Copenhagen - Dallas - Denver - Dubai - Dublin - Dubrovnik - Dusseldorf - Edinburgh - Faro - Florence - Frankfurt am Main - Freiburg im Breisgau - Fukuoka - Grand Rapids - Guadalajara - Guangzhou - Haikou - Hamburg - Hanoi - Helsinki - Heraklion - Ho Chi Minh City - Hong Kong - Honolulu - Houston - Innsbruck - Istanbul - İzmir - Jakarta - Jeddah - Jeju - Johannesburg - Kiev - Koh Samui - Krakow - Kuala Lumpur - Kuta (Bali) - Las Palmas de Gran Canaria - Las Vegas - Lille - Lima - Limassol - Lisbon - Ljubljana - London - Los Angeles - Lyon - Madrid - Málaga - Manchester - Manila - Marrakech - Melbourne - Mexico City - Miami - Milan - Montpellier - Montréal - Moscow - Mumbai - Munich - Naha - Nairobi - Natal - New Delhi - New Orleans - New York - Nice - Norwalk - Orlando - Osaka - Oslo - Palma de Mallorca - Panama City - Paris - Phoenix - Phuket - Porto Alegre - Prague - Qingdao - Rennes - Reykjavík - Riga - Rimini - Rio de Janeiro - Rome - Saint Petersburg - Sallanches - Salzburg - San Diego - San Francisco - San Jose - San Juan - Santiago - Santo Domingo - São Paulo - Sapporo - Seattle - Seoul - Seville - Shanghai - Siem Reap - Singapore - Sochi - Sofia - Sorrento - Split - Stockholm - Strasbourg - Sydney - Taipei - Tallinn - Tbilisi - Tel Aviv - Thessaloníki - Tokyo - Toronto - Trabzon - Vancouver - Venice - Verona - Vienna - Vilnius - Warsaw - Washington - Xi'an - Yangon - Yogyakarta - Zagreb - Zurich
Booking.com B.V. is registered with the trade register of the Chamber of Commerce in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, under registration number 31047344. VAT tax registration number is NL805734958B01. Registration number with Dutch Data Protection Authority is 1288246.
What Booking.com Offers
Incredible Selection
Whether you want to stay in a chic city apartment, a luxury beach resort, or a cozy B&B in the countryside, Booking.com gives you amazing diversity and variety of choice – all in one place.
Low Rates
Booking.com guarantees to offer you the best available rates. And with our promise to price match, you can rest assured that you’re always getting a great deal.
Instant Confirmation
At Booking.com, every reservation is instantly confirmed. When you find your perfect stay, a few clicks are all it takes.
No Reservation Fees
We don’t charge you any booking fees or add any administrative charges. And in many cases, your booking can be canceled free of charge.
Secure Booking
We facilitate hundreds of thousands of transactions every day through our secure platform and work to the highest standards to guarantee your privacy. For more details, check our Privacy Statement.
24/7 Support
Whether you’ve just booked or are already enjoying your trip, our Customer Experience Team is available around the clock to answer your questions and advocate on your behalf in more than 40 languages. Make sure to check out our FAQs for travelers.
Bringing Value to Our Accommodation Partners
At Booking.com, we believe that all great properties deserve to be discovered. That’s why we make it quick and easy for accommodation providers all around the world to market their properties, reach new customers, and grow their business through our platform.
For more info and to list your property on Booking.com, see our Accommodation Partner Program and
Supplier Code of Conduct.
List your property
Mobile version
Your account
Make changes online to your booking
Customer Service Help
Become an affiliate
Booking.com for Business
Countries
Regions
Cities
Districts
Airports
Hotels
Places of interest
Homes
Apartments
Resorts
Villas
Hostels
B&Bs
Guest Houses
Unique places to stay
Reviews
Discover monthly stays
Travel articles
Seasonal and holiday deals
Traveller Review Awards
Car rental
Flight finder
Restaurant reservations
Booking.com for Travel Agents
Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs
About Booking.com
Customer Service Help
Partner help
Careers
Sustainability
Press Center
Safety Resource Center
Investor relations
Terms of Service
Partner dispute
How We Work
Privacy & cookie statement
Don't sell or share my personal information
Modern Slavery Statement
Human Rights Statement
Corporate contact
Content guidelines and reporting
Extranet Log-in
Copyright © 1996–2025
Booking.com™. All rights reserved.
Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services.
Start of dialog content
Verified reviews from real guests.
We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from real, verified guests.
How does it work?
1
It starts with a booking
It starts with a booking
The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property.
2
Followed by a trip
Followed by a trip
When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more.
3
And finally, a review
And finally, a review
After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site.
If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first.
Sign in and leave a review
End of dialog content
«
»
Su
Mo
Tu
We
Th
Fr
Sa
Close calendar
Sign in to continue
Sign in to your account
or use one of these options
Don't have an account yet? Create your account
2311730,2363720|5,2363720|1,2374450|1,2374380|1,2374450|5,2374380|5