Environment generator for user services in systemd? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Environment generator for user services in systemd? [closed]
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
38 times
-2
Closed. This question is not about programming or software development. It is not currently accepting answers.
This question does not appear to be about a specific programming problem, a software algorithm, or software tools primarily used by programmers. If you believe the question would be on-topic on another Stack Exchange site, you can leave a comment to explain where the question may be able to be answered.
Closed 3 days ago.
Improve this question
So, I want to run my services (on a VPS) as rootless user services with systemd. Some are containers, some are local, and for the local ones I need to preset some environment variables. Moreover, I need to generate said variables with a script, can't put them in an ini-style .env file.
The systemd mechanism for this is supposed to be environment generators, but where do I place an environment generator file as a user? Placing one in
~/.config/systemd/user-environment-generators leads to the generator script being ignored entirely, it never runs at all (I added a touch command to it to see if it runs). And yes it is set to executable (755 to be exact).
environment-variablessystemd
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 14 at 14:24
Mikhail RamendikMikhail Ramendik
1,11122 gold badges1414 silver badges2828 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
0
man systemd.environment-generator does not list ~/.config/systemd/ as a valid location. Unlike most other "user instance" files, generators (neither unit nor environment) are not read from per-user locations, only from the global /etc/systemd/user.
(For global per-user environment, systemd only supports static environment through the built-in environment.d(5) generator.)
Most environment variables ought to be set per-service – and per-service environment can be generated via [Service] ExecStartPre=, with its output loaded through [Service] EnvironmentFile= in the same unit. Such environment files are re-loaded after ExecStartPre, i.e. before the main ExecStart is run, to allow for generation.
Similarly, a separate .service could be used to generate an EnvironmentFile to be consumed by multiple services; the file will be re-read when each service starts.
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered Sep 14 at 14:52
grawitygrawity
19.3k33 gold badges4040 silver badges6363 bronze badges
Comments
Add a comment
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
environment-variablessystemd
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Featured on Meta
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Related
3442
How can I access environment variables in Python?
2561
How do I delete an exported environment variable?
1577
Read environment variables in Node.js
1515
How do I pass environment variables to Docker containers?
1311
How to set environment variables in Python?
1224
Set environment variables from file of key/value pairs
1215
List all environment variables from the command line
948
Setting environment variables on OS X
572
Setting Environment Variables for Node to retrieve
768
Adding a directory to the PATH environment variable in Windows
Hot Network Questions
Is there any way to disable or minimize the impact of the “Liquid Glass” UI feature of macOS 26, iOS 26 and watchOS 26?
why the "e" and "m" in the last terms look different from those in the first terms
Does concatenating the digits of the k-th perfect powers always give a base-10 normal real number?
Open pdf files in the background with fzf
What is the legal ramification, if any, of this traffic sign in Sofia, Bulgaria?
gdal_fillnodata has no compression flag
What's the point of Chip Exchange?
Looking for 70s to early 90s Sci Fi book where neck tattoo indicates social status
When do cartographers draw a line for the coast and when do they not?
What happens when a card copying a Double Team card triggers?
Statistics for Theoreticians
Siblings buying grandparents' home as first time buyers. Please help me identify our blind spots
Explicit proof that tangent bundle of the 2-sphere, TS^2, is parallelizable
Scalars, Vectors, Tensors: are they all?
TikZ bounding box not calculated properly in standalone class
Is electrolysis of alumina (Al2O3) without cryolite possible to produce pure aluminum?
Did Trump say "smart people don't like me"?
Compute the integer hull of a polyhedral set in Mathematica
Beyond first place?
Find the first relabeling
New in my job, made a mistake with crediting a colleague – how should I handle this?
A man you don't meet every day
In what sense is this algorithm better than Dijkstra?
What is a resource on encodings for Turing machines?
more hot questions
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093