News flash: cable management isn't the nightmare it used to be
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
News flash: cable management isn't the nightmare it used to be
By
Tanveer Singh
Published 3 days ago
After a 7-year corporate stint, Tanveer found his love for writing and tech too much to resist. An MBA in Marketing and the owner of a PC building business, he writes on PC hardware, technology, and Windows. When not scouring the web for ideas, he can be found building PCs, watching anime, or playing Smash Karts on his RTX 3080 (sigh).
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
There are definitely some annoying things about building a PC, and cable management might top the list for some people. Despite the benefits of proper cable management, it feels like a tacked-on step of the process, almost like a chore that you have to get through. However, the reality is that doing a decent job of managing your PC's cables isn't laborious at all. In fact, thanks to modern cases and power supplies (and even cables), cable management is far from the nightmare it's made out to be.
Modular PSUs do half the work for you
Without really costing more
Back in 2017, when I was building a budget PC, I picked a non-modular Seasonic PSU to save costs. I had to manage a few extra cables, but that was what I was already used to. Modular power supplies have completely changed the game when it comes to cable management. When you have to use only those cables that you actually need inside your PC, it instantly eliminates a lot of waste.
Over the years, modular PSUs stopped being overly pricier than their non-modular counterparts, becoming the de facto choice for new builds. If you have fewer cables to start with, that's half your job done right there. Modular PSUs do the heavy lifting on modern PCs when it comes to reducing cable clutter. Most new PCs only need the 24-pin motherboard power, 8-pin CPU power, and PCIe GPU power cables.
Nearly every case has enough cable management features
You don't need to struggle
The next piece of the cable management puzzle is completed by the case. Even today's budget PC cases come packed with decent cable management features, such as ample routing channels, tie-down points, PSU shrouds, and enough space behind the motherboard tray. That's all you really need to do a great job at managing your cables. Mid-range cases will upgrade you to dual chambers and removable panels for a more visually appealing finish. Many cases even have bundled Velcro straps and zip-ties to allow you to refine your work without buying these accessories separately. If you plan your cable routing at the outset instead of thinking about it after finishing the build, you'll have a fairly simple job on your hands.
Cables aren't unwieldy anymore
New-age connectors are leading the charge
Lastly, the reason cable management isn't the mighty challenge it used to be is that the cables themselves aren't bulky anymore. In the days of IDE and Molex cables, you had to be more involved when routing cables to their intended destinations. Due to the larger surface area of these broad and clunky connectors, it was legitimately hard to make your cable routing look good. Fast-forward to modern connectors, and you'll rarely find any bulky cables inside your PC. Save for some GPU adapters and SATA cables, nothing poses any real challenge when managing the cables. Even SATA cables are becoming rare in the age of M.2 SSDs that connect directly to the motherboard. Thanks to the 12VHPWR or 12V-2x6 connectors, you don't need to deal with bulky adapters on modern graphics cards anymore. And with reverse connector motherboards, you can eliminate even more cables from your build.
Cable management has truly matured
In 2025, we've reached a stage in PC building where cable management shouldn't really feature in the top concerns for builders. Thanks to modular power supplies, feature-rich cases, cable-less connectors, and modern motherboards, cable management is far easier than popular opinion would suggest. Unless you're stuffing multiple hard drives or SATA SSDs in your build, you shouldn't worry about managing dozens of cables inside the PC.
Other Hardware
PC
cables
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
This free, self-hosted productivity stack can help you track every aspect of your life
5 days ago
I always play these 4 game franchises on PlayStation over Xbox consoles, and it's better that way
6 days ago
Microsoft 365 users are getting a handy productivity tool at no additional cost
5 days ago
Wi-Fi 7 is exciting, but here's why you shouldn't buy a new router (yet)
Today's best deals
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
10 hours ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
13 hours ago
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I tried this open-source platform to self-host LLMs, and it’s faster than I expected
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
This container and network visualiser is a must-install for every Docker user
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.