Valve's 256GB LCD Steam Deck is an incredible 20% off — big price drop just in time for the Steam Autumn Sale | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Video Games
Console Gaming
Handheld Gaming
Valve's 256GB LCD Steam Deck is an incredible 20% off — big price drop just in time for the Steam Autumn Sale
Deals
By
Zak Killian
published
23 September 2025
Despite being over three and a half years old, the original Steam Deck still games like a champ.
Comments (0)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Future)
If you don't have a PC-based gaming handheld, it can be hard to comprehend what all the fuss is about. This is the fastest-growing sector of the PC gaming space, though, and there's a reason. If you'd like to find out for yourself why everyone from Asus to Zotac is making aming handhelds, you can try out the original Valve Steam Deck LCD with a 256GB SSD for just $319.20 right now, straight from Valve.The Steam Deck LCD has been slightly overshadowed by its younger OLED sibling, but they're not far apart in gaming performance, and many of the games that you'd really want to play on a Steam Deck — indie titles like CrossCode, Holocure: Save the Fans, UFO 50, Celeste, and Hades — are actually capped at 60 FPS and unable to take full advantage of the 90-Hz screen on the Steam Deck OLED anyway.
Check out the Steam Deck LCD 256GB on Steam
For $319.20, you get the original Steam Deck LCD with its 7" screen and 40-Whr battery (Valve touts 2-8 hours of gameplay; we found 2-6 in our review), a 45W power supply with 1.5-meter cable, and a carrying case. This machine is awesome for anyone who travels a lot, for university students with time to kill between classes, and for people living in shared spaces without a lot of room for a bulky gaming PC.
Save 20%Valve Steam Deck LCD: was $399 now $319.20 at store.steampowered.comValve's Steam Deck LCD with 256GB SSD is at the lowest price we've seen lately. This system sports a quad-core AMD processor with the same graphics technology as the PlayStation 5, and enough battery for up to eight hours of gameplay.Read more▼View DealSave 20%Valve Steam Deck LCD: was £349 now £279.20 at store.steampowered.comAlso available in the UK, grab a 20% discount on the LCD Steam Deck. View Deal
This deal comes just one week before the massive Steam Autumn Sale, Valve's yearly bacchanalia packed to the brim with bountiful game discounts, especially on beloved older titles. We're likely to see deep discounts on delightful games that will play perfectly on the Steam Deck, like the ones we mentioned above, as well as titles like Lost Castle II, 30XX, the Shantae series, Cuphead, the Blasphemous series, and the original Hollow Knight. Probably no sale on Hollow Knight: Silksong, though.Lest you think the Steam Deck is only suited for 2D games, though, rest assured, you can absolutely play titles like Sifu, Risk of Rain 2, Dark Souls, RoboQuest, and even AAA releases like Cyberpunk 2077 — as long as you're willing to be realistic about the game settings and the longevity of your battery. If the game is marked as "Playable" or "Verified" on Steam (and in some cases, even if it isn't), you can play it on the Steam Deck.
There is the argument to be made that the Steam Deck LCD is one of the less impressive of the current crop of PC gaming handhelds, but as a counterpoint, we'll remark that the $200+ you save buying a Steam Deck LCD could go toward a whole bunch of games — especially with the deep discounts you're likely to see next week. Ultimately, unless performance is a real issue, the experience of playing a game on the Steam Deck OLED (or, say, an ASUS ROG Ally) is not going to be fundamentally different from the Steam Deck LCD.It also must be noted that $319.20 is an awfully cheap way to get a full-on Linux PC with 16GB of memory and 256GB of fast solid-state storage. While the Steam Deck is hardly a powerhouse PC in 2025, it's still much faster than something like a Raspberry Pi or Lattepanda, and it's fully open and hackable. There's nothing stopping you from using your Steam Deck in your own projects, or even simply as a desktop PC with a compatible dock.If you're still not convinced, check out our full review of the Steam Deck, but be aware that things have changed a lot in the three years and seven months since its release. Valve has made massive improvements to the SteamOS experience, and everything goes a lot more smoothly these days. You may also want to check out our list of the best PC gaming handhelds for more comparisons. Don't wait too long, though, because this deal ends October 6th.
If you're looking for more savings, check out our Best PC Hardware deals for a range of products, or dive deeper into our specialized SSD and Storage Deals, Hard Drive Deals, Gaming Monitor Deals, Graphics Card Deals, or CPU Deals pages.
Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See all comments (0)
Zak KillianContributorZak is a freelance contributor to Tom's Hardware with decades of PC benchmarking experience who has also written for HotHardware and The Tech Report. A modern-day Renaissance man, he may not be an expert on anything, but he knows just a little about nearly everything.
No comments yet
Comment from the forums
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.