This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
By
Simon Batt
Published 5 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Every once in a blue moon, we come across a game on Steam that's brand new, highly rated, and available at a pretty decent introductory offer. It doesn't happen often, but when the holy trifecta aligns, it's absolutely worth checking out. Such is the case with Shape of Dreams, a title released on September 11th, which has already garnered just under 2,000 reviews with a 94% positive review rating. And while it's at a very respectable 20% off as part of an introductory offer, it also has a demo you can check out, so you can try before you buy.
Shape of Dreams releases to positive reviews and a 20% discount for a limited time
I hadn't heard of Shape of Dreams until today, but I'm glad I discovered it. Right off the bat, the game has an interesting premise; it's a roguelite with MOBA-like gameplay, but with zero PVP. You can play by yourself or team up with your friends, so it's all the joys of playing a MOBA without any of the toxicity. Sounds like a winner to me. Here is how the developers describe Shape of Dreams:
Shape of Dreams is a fast-paced action roguelite that fuses hack-and-slash combat, MOBA-style teamplay, and endless strategic variety. Journey through surreal dreamscapes where every battle tests your reflexes and every choice shapes your fate. Play solo for a tight, skill-based challenge or team up with up to three friends in real-time co-op, improvising distinct combat styles and forging powerful builds that can turn you into the nightmare your enemies fear.
Here, the dream bends to those strong enough to shape it. Wield an ever-changing arsenal of skills, modifiers, and artifacts to craft devastating combinations, break through impossible challenges, and carve your own path of progression. No two runs are ever the same, and no single “meta” will carry you to victory.
It's a really cool elevator pitch for a game, and fortunately, it appears that the devs have actually made good on their promise. The game currently has just under 2,000 reviews, with 94% of them being positive, and it has only been out for two weeks. Additionally, there's a demo available for you to try out and see if you like it. If you do enjoy Shape of Dreams, you can score a nice 20% discount if you purchase it before September 24th. So, be sure to give the title a spin; who knows, it may become your next addiction.
Shape of Dreams
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
MOBA
Hack and Slash
Action
Roguelike
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
86/100
Critics Rec:
83%
Released
September 11, 2025
Developer(s)
Lizard Smoothie
Publisher(s)
Neowiz
5 Images
Close
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
DIGITAL
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
6 days ago
The greatest NBA 2K story modes ever — and the one that dropped the ball
6 days ago
This tiny and cheap x86 mini PC is the best Jellyfin server you're overlooking
5 days ago
These 5 brilliant mods can transform Hollow Knight for you once you've beaten Silksong
5 days ago
I finally set up Home Assistant, but here are 4 challenges I didn't expect
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
3 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
4 tiny single-board computers that outclass the Raspberry Pi
Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 puts a 4.6 GHz processor in your pocket
Netdata is an open source dashboard that shows all my servers and services in one place
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.