PyPI urges users to reset credentials after new phishing attacks
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Microsoft warns of new XCSSET macOS malware variant targeting Xcode devs
Unofficial Postmark MCP npm silently stole users' emails
Prep smarter for Microsoft Azure exams with this $30 course bundle
Co-op says it lost $107 million after Scattered Spider attack
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityPyPI urges users to reset credentials after new phishing attacks
PyPI urges users to reset credentials after new phishing attacks
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 24, 2025
09:15 AM
0
The Python Software Foundation has warned victims of a new wave of phishing attacks using a fake Python Package Index (PyPI) website to reset credentials.
Accessible at pypi.org, PyPI is the default source for Python's package management tools, hosting hundreds of thousands of packages and providing developers with a centralized platform to distribute third-party software libraries.
Python Software Foundation developer Seth Larson said the phishing emails request targets to "verify their email address" for "account maintenance and security procedures," threatening them with account suspensions and redirecting to a phishing landing page at pypi-mirror[.]org.
"If you have already clicked on the link and provided your credentials, we recommend changing your password on PyPI immediately," Larson said. "Inspect your account's Security History for anything unexpected. Report suspicious activity, such as potential phishing campaigns against PyPI, to security@pypi.org."
The threat actors aim to steal the victims' credentials, which will likely be used in subsequent attacks to compromise Python packages they've published on PyPI with malware or to publish new malicious packages.
These attacks are part of a phishing campaign that also used the pypj[.]org domain in July to trick potential victims into logging in to a fake PyPI site.
Fake pypj[.]org site (BleepingComputer)
Larson advised PyPI package maintainers to never click on links in emails and to use password managers that auto-fill credentials based on domain names.
To further ensure their accounts are protected against hacking attempts, they should also use phishing-resistant two-factor authentication (2FA) methods, such as hardware keys, and share suspicious emails with others before taking action.
Users can also help take down these phishing campaigns by reporting domains as malicious and contacting registrars to have the domains removed, to block attackers' attempts to trick other PyPI users.
Last week, the Python Software Foundation team also invalidated all PyPI tokens stolen in the GhostAction supply chain attack in early September, confirming that the threat actors had not abused them to publish malware.
In March 2024, PyPI also temporarily suspended user registration and new project creation after threat actors published hundreds of malicious packages disguised as legitimate ones.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Hackers target Python devs in phishing attacks using fake PyPI siteHow secure are passkeys, really? Here's what you need to knowWhy attackers are moving beyond email-based phishing attacksTarget-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest riskPlex tells users to reset passwords after new data breach
Credentials
Password Reset
Passwords
Phishing
PyPI
Python
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Cisco warns of IOS zero-day vulnerability exploited in attacks
Cloudflare mitigates new record-breaking 22.2 Tbps DDoS attack
CISA says hackers breached federal agency using GeoServer exploit
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT