Chicken Potpie Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Puff Pastry Chicken Potpie
Chicken Potpie Casserole
Chicken Potpie Soup
Chicken Biscuit Potpie
Homemade Chicken Potpie
24 Best Instant Pot Chicken Recipes
Slow-Cooker Chicken Potpie
Muffin-Tin Chicken Potpies
Ham Potpie
Vegetable Potpie
Chicken Deep Dish Potpie
Best Chicken Noodle Soup
Hearty Chickpea Potpie
Easy Cheddar Chicken Potpie
Best Pot Roast
Gluten-Free Chicken Potpie
Makeover Chicken Potpies
Samosa Potpie
Vegetable Beef Potpie
Pheasant Potpie
Best Chicken Potpie Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesCasserolesChicken Casseroles
Chicken Potpie
Best Chicken Potpie Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4.8 | 392 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 40 min. Bake: 35 min. + standing
By
Lindsay D. Mattison
Recipe by Karen Johnson, Bakersfield, California
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on May 01, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Learning how to make chicken potpie from scratch is 100% worth it. This chicken potpie recipe features a flaky, buttery crust packed with chicken, vegetables and a creamy sauce.
Say goodbye to the freezer section forever. Once you know how easy it is to make homemade chicken potpie, you’ll never go back! There are several potpie recipes to choose from (and even a chicken potpie soup), but we find ourselves returning to this classic chicken potpie recipe time and time again. It captures everything we love about this comforting meal: golden crust, creamy sauce, tender chicken, and a colorful combination of carrots, potatoes, peas and corn.
This homemade chicken potpie recipe makes two pies. That may sound like a lot of food, but making the full recipe is worth it, even if you plan on only baking one. The pies freeze beautifully and don’t even need to thaw overnight when you’re ready to use them. We’ll include instructions on how to freeze chicken potpie and how to bake it from frozen so you can take advantage of a premade meal on a busy night.
How to Make Chicken Potpie
Make the filling: The filling is a combination of chicken, vegetables and a basic white sauce. Before adding the vegetables, cook any veggies that require softening, such as carrots and potatoes.
Fill the pie: Line a pie plate with unbaked pie crust. Then, add the chicken filling. Cover it with the top crust, seal the edges, and cut a few slits in the top. Those slits help steam escape as the pie bakes.
Bake the pie: Bake chicken potpie until the crust is lightly browned and the filling is bubbly. Avoid the temptation to dive right into the pie. Letting it sit for 15 minutes will allow the filling to firm up. And no one wants a runny pie!
Chicken Potpie Ingredients
Pie crust: Our classic butter pie crust tastes phenomenal, but premade crust is inarguably convenient. To use this shortcut, check out the best store-bought pie crust.
Chicken: You can use white or dark meat to make chicken potpie. Using rotisserie chicken is a fantastic way to cut down prep time. If you prefer to cook the chicken at home, here’s how to bake chicken breasts without drying them out.
Vegetables: A top-of-the-line potpie is filled with tender, colorful veggies. This recipe uses potatoes, carrots, frozen peas and corn.
Cream sauce: The creamy sauce starts with a roux, which is a combination of butter and flour that thickens the sauce. The creamy consistency comes from milk, and the savory edge is from the combination of chicken broth, onions, thyme and black pepper.
Directions
Step 1: Cook the potato and carrot mixture
Taste of Home
Preheat the oven to 425°F.
Place the potatoes and carrots in a large saucepan, and add enough water to cover the vegetables. Bring the water to a boil. Then, reduce the heat. Cook, covered, for 8 to 10 minutes or until the veggies are crisp-tender. Drain and discard the water.
Step 2: Make a roux for the filling
Taste of Home
In a large skillet, heat the butter over medium-high heat. Add the onion. Cook and stir until the onion is tender. Stir in the flour and seasonings until blended.
Step 3: Finish the filling
Taste of Home
Gradually stir in the broth and milk. Bring the mixture to a boil, stirring constantly.
Taste of Home
Cook and stir for two minutes or until the mixture is thickened.
In a large bowl, combine the chicken, peas, corn, and potato-carrot mixture. Stir in the broth mixture.
Step 4: Assemble the potpie
Taste of Home
Unroll a pie crust into each of the two 9-inch pie plates. Trim the crusts even with the rims of the plates. Add half the filling to each pie plate.
Step 5: Add the top crust
Taste of Home
Unroll the remaining pie crusts. Working with one pie crust at a time, place it over the filling in each pie plate.
Taste of Home
Trim, seal and flute the edges. Cut a few slits in the tops.
Editor’s Tip: To seal the pie, roll the edges of the top and bottom pie crusts together. Then, to flute the edge, position your index finger on the outside edge of the pie, facing inward. Position your other hand’s thumb and index finger on the inside edge, and gently press the crust into your outer index finger. Pinch to form a V. Continue around the pie crust until you reach the original flute.
Step 6: Bake the potpie
Taste of Home
Bake for 35 to 40 minutes or until the crust is lightly browned. Let the potpie stand for 15 minutes before cutting.
Recipe Variations
Change the vegetables: You can use a limitless combination of vegetables in chicken potpie. Make it with or without potatoes, or add veggies like sauteed mushrooms, bell peppers, parsnips, asparagus or green beans.
Use puff pastry: Give the pie a light and fluffy texture by making puff pastry chicken potpie.
Swap in another meat: Try ground beef potpie for a hearty twist. Or if you have holiday leftovers, make ham potpie or turkey potpie. For a meatless version, skip the meat and make a vegetable potpie.
How to Store Chicken Potpie
Tightly wrap the cooled chicken potpie with storage wrap, or transfer it to an airtight container. The leftovers will last in the refrigerator for up to four days.
How to Reheat Chicken Potpie
To reheat chicken potpie, bake it in a 350° oven until the filling is hot and reaches an internal temperature of 165°. Use a food thermometer to check the temperature.
Can you freeze chicken potpie?
Yes! To freeze chicken potpie, cover the unbaked pies and place them in the freezer. When you’re ready to use a pie, there’s no need to thaw it. Simply remove it from the freezer 30 minutes before baking to take the chill off the dish.
To bake a chicken potpie from frozen, preheat the oven to 425°. Place the pie on a baking sheet, and cover the edges loosely with foil to prevent them from over-browning. Bake for 30 minutes. Then, reduce the oven setting to 350°. Bake for 70 to 80 minutes longer or until the crust is golden brown and a thermometer inserted in the center reads 165°.
Tips for Homemade Chicken Potpie
Taste of Home
How do you keep chicken potpie from getting soggy?
There are several ways to prevent a soggy pie crust. Here are our top tips:
Seal the crust: Brush the crust with a beaten egg white. This will help seal the crust and prevent the liquid filling from absorbing into the dough.
Make sure the filling is hot: Pour the filling into the crust while it’s still hot. Then, immediately place the potpie in the oven. The heat from the filling will help set the crust.
Use the lower rack: Bake the pie on a lower rack in the oven. The oven’s heat concentrates at the bottom. So, placing the potpie on the lowest rack ensures the bottom of the crust will become crisp and golden brown.
Blind bake the crust: If all else fails, try blind baking the pie crust before adding the filling.
How do you thicken chicken potpie filling?
We thicken our chicken potpie filling with flour. As written, this recipe should create a sufficiently thick mixture. However, you can add a bit of cornstarch or arrowroot to further thicken the filling. Stir 1 to 2 teaspoons of cornstarch into cold water and gradually whisk it into the filling. Be sure to stir the mixture well to avoid lumps. If you’re planning to freeze the potpie, arrowroot is the best thickener. Cornstarch can make the filling spongy when thawed.
Should you poke holes in the bottom pie crust?
No, we don’t recommend poking holes in the pie crust. Pricking the bottom of a pastry crust is helpful if you’re blind-baking the crust. However, you shouldn’t poke holes in the crust when the filling and crust are going to be baked together.
How do you keep the edge of the pie crust from slumping?
You can reduce slumping (when the edge of the crust falls inward off the lip of the pie plate) by letting a fluted crust rest in the refrigerator for 30 to 45 minutes.
Why is the chicken potpie runny?
If your chicken potpie seems runny after it’s baked, chances are good that the pie didn’t bake for enough time. The ingredients need time to set up and create a thick filling. If your crust is getting too golden or dark before the end of your bake time, place a sheet of foil over the top to keep it from burning.
Watch How to Make Best Chicken Potpie
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Best Chicken Potpie
4.8 | 392 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:2 potpies (8 servings each)
Prep:40 min
Cook:35 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2 cups diced peeled potatoes
1-3/4 cups sliced carrots
1 cup butter, cubed
2/3 cup chopped onion
1 cup all-purpose flour
1-3/4 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon dried thyme
3/4 teaspoon pepper
3 cups chicken broth
1-1/2 cups whole milk
4 cups cubed cooked chicken
1 cup frozen peas
1 cup frozen corn
4 sheets refrigerated pie crust
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 425°. Place potatoes and carrots in a large saucepan; add water to cover. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat; cook, covered, 8-10 minutes or until crisp-tender; drain.
In a large skillet, heat butter over medium-high heat. Add onion; cook and stir until tender. Stir in flour and seasonings until blended. Gradually stir in broth and milk. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly; cook and stir for 2 minutes or until thickened.
In a large bowl, combine chicken, peas, corn and potato-carrot mixture. Stir in broth mixture.
Unroll a pie crust into each of two 9-in. pie plates; trim crusts even with rims of plates. Add chicken mixture. Unroll remaining crusts; place over filling. Trim, seal and flute edges. Cut slits in tops.
Bake for 35-40 minutes or until crust is lightly browned. Let stand 15 minutes before cutting.
Nutrition Facts
1 piece: 475 calories, 28g fat (14g saturated fat), 74mg cholesterol, 768mg sodium, 41g carbohydrate (5g sugars, 2g fiber), 15g protein.
Author
Lindsay D. Mattison
Lindsay has been a food writer, recipe developer and product tester for seven years. She’s a culinary school graduate who specializes in sustainable food and seasonal ingredients. She draws on her professional chef background to develop recipes and help home cooks gain confidence in the kitchen. When Lindsay isn’t writing, you’ll find her coo...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This is the best chicken potpie recipe! Chock-full of chicken, potatoes, peas and corn, this recipe makes two golden pies, so you can serve one at supper and save the other for a busy night. —Karen Johnson, Bakersfield, California
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box