Best Home EV Chargers for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Electric Vehicles
Best Home EV Chargers for 2025
A Level 2 EV charger makes your electric vehicle even more convenient and cost-effective. Here are CNET's picks for the best at-home options.
Tesla Universal Wall Connector Best home EV charger overall
$948 at Amazon
ChargePoint Home Flex Best EV charger overall runner-up
$539 at Amazon
United Chargers Grizzl-E Classic Best EV charger value, especially if it's going outdoors
$350 at Amazon
United Chargers Grizzl-E Duo Best EV charger for charging two cars
$799 at Amazon
Autel MaxiCharger AC Elite Home 50A Best EV charger with security features
$599 at Amazon
Lectron V-Box Pro Best no-frills home EV charger
$370 at Amazon
Enel X Way JuiceBox 48 Best EV charger for green energy
$529 at Amazon
Show more (2 items)
Table of Contents
Best Home EV Chargers for 2025
What is the best home EV charger for most drivers?
Best home EV chargers of 2024
What are the benefits of having a Level 2 home EV charger?
How to prepare for Level 2 home charging?
How to choose a home EV charger?
How much does it cost to install a home EV charger?
What is the fastest home EV charger?
What about charging your home with your car?
How we evaluate home EV chargers
You've bought an electric vehicle, maybe because of its lower emissions or maybe to save you money. Installing a Level 2 EV charger at home can unlock even greater convenience and, if it helps shift your charging away from public chargers, can boost your savings on fuel.With numerous home charging stations on the market from various manufacturers offering a wide range of features and charging speeds, it can be hard to know which one is right for you. Plus, you'll have to make sure your home electrical system is ready to support EV charging. Over the last 15 years, I've evaluated and driven just about every mass-market electric vehicle ever sold in the US and even I have learned a lot over the last year while getting an EV charger setup at my home. That's why I've put together this guide to help you choose the best home EV charger for your needs.I'll discuss the different types of chargers, the features you should look for, and the best chargers on the market. I'll also answer some common questions about preparing your home for EV charging. Whether you're a first-time EV or plug-in hybrid EV owner or you're just looking to upgrade your current charger, read on for all the information you need to choose the best home charging hardware for your home.
Enlarge Image
TeslaWhat is the best home EV charger for most drivers?It shouldn't really be a surprise to find Tesla topping our list of best home EV chargers with its Universal Wall Connector. (After all, the automaker already tops our lists of best electric cars and SUVs with one of the best-selling cars of 2023, electric or otherwise.) The Universal flavor of the Wall Connector is a bit more expensive than the automaker's standard Wall Connector because it integrates both Tesla's NACS charging cable and J1772 adapter for non-Tesla cars into its compact chassis.The Universal Wall Connector's design keeps the J1772 adapter locked onto either the cable's tip or into the charger's housing, so you won't accidentally lose or have to keep track of it. Users can easily swap between the two standards in seconds, which makes it ideal for households with multiple EVs, guests who show up with plug-in hybrids or owners looking to future-proof for the rest of the EV industry's eventual switch to the NACS standard in the US and Canada over the next few years.With a 240-volt, 48-amp connection to your home's electrical system, this Level 2 charger can send up to 11.5 kilowatts of energy to a connected electric car. That's equivalent to around 44 miles of range per hour plugged in for a Tesla Model 3 or Model Y. Additionally, the Wi-Fi-connected charging station allows users to remotely monitor and schedule charging, control access (useful for outdoor installations) and supports Powershare bidirectional power for Tesla's Cybertruck. Best home EV chargers of 2024
Tesla
Tesla Universal Wall Connector
Best home EV charger overall
Like
Integrated NACS to J1772 adapter; remote monitoring and access control; 4 year warranty
Don't like
One of most expensive EVSE on this list
The Tesla Universal Wall Connector is a high-quality EV charger that is a solid pick for owners of Tesla and non-Tesla EVs thanks to its NACS connector and integrated J1772 adapter. Its Wi-Fi connection enables scheduled charging, remote monitoring, security settings and access control. It's also backed by a four-year warranty.SpecsConnector: NACS and SAE J1772 (integrated adapter)Cable length: 24 ft.Output: up to 11.5 kW @ 48A, 240VWarranty: 4 years
$948 at Amazon
$550 at Best Buy
ChargePoint
ChargePoint Home Flex
Best EV charger overall runner-up
Like
Extremely compact design; replaceable connector/cable; up to 50A (on a 60A circuit)
Don't like
Pricey
Chargepoint -- one of the oldest and largest EV charging networks in the nation -- brings its experience with EVSE hardware to your driveway with its compact Home Flex EV Charger. Users will have to choose between NACS and J1772 plugs at purchase, but the removable cable means that the Flex can be swapped between the standards with a simple replacement part if you ever change EVs. The Wi-Fi connected home station can be monitored and controlled, which is also helpful for finding and accessing public charging networks away from home.SpecsConnector: SAE J1772 or NACSCable length: 23 ft.Output: up to 12 kW @ 50A, 240VWarranty: 3 years
$539 at Amazon
United Chargers
United Chargers Grizzl-E Classic
Best EV charger value, especially if it's going outdoors
Like
Rugged construction; low cost; simple design avoids software issues
Don't like
Plug-in only design
Canadian EVSE manufacturer United Chargers offers a Wi-Fi-enabled Grizzl-E Smart EV charger, but for the money, the no-frills Grizzl-E Classic is the better value. (The simpler unit also avoids many of the software issues users have experienced with the Smart during its first few years of availability.) Plus, it's built like a tank with its dustproof, fire-resistant aluminum case that's built to IP67 standards, which protects against full water immersion to one meter for 30 minutes.The Classic is available with an SAE J1772 connector and three colorways for its rugged chassis. The unit is installed with a simple NEMA 14-50 or 6-50 plug and can be adjusted to accept 16-, 24-, 32- or 40-amp power at 240 volts, sending up 10 kilowatts maximum through its nice and long 25-foot cable. Plus, it comes with a three-year warranty for its $350 MSRP: not too shabby.SpecsConnector: SAE J1772Cable length: 24 ft.Output: up to 10 kW @ 40A, 240VWarranty: 3 years
$350 at Amazon
United Chargers
United Chargers Grizzl-E Duo
Best EV charger for charging two cars
Like
Everything that's great about the Grizzl-E Classic; plus charges two EVs on shared power
Don't like
Plug-in only design
You're not seeing double. Simply put, the Grizzl-E Duo builds on our Best Value Grizzl-E Classic with a second 24-foot cable and connector to charge two cars simultaneously. The Duo adds an intelligent power-sharing circuit to balance available current, up to 40 amps total, between the two charging cars according to their individual needs. That helps maximize charge speed for each vehicle without the risk of blowing a circuit or the inconvenience of cable swapping.SpecsConnector: SAE J1772Cable length: 24 ft. x 2Output: up to 10 kW @ 40A, 240VWarranty: 3 years
$799 at Amazon
Autel Energy
Autel MaxiCharger AC Elite Home 50A
Best EV charger with security features
Like
Up to 50A charging; available smartphone and RFID security; multiple installation options
Don't like
No native option for NACS connector
The MaxiCharger is a solidly built and flexible home EVSE. Users can choose between hardwired or outlet-connected installation. The box comes with either built-in or external plug holster configurations. The charger's output can also be controlled, monitored or adjusted over Wi-Fi, allowing it to easily accommodate homes that may not be able to reach its 50-amp maximum draw. (For example, I was able to cap it at 24 amps to fit safely within the limitations of my older home's power panel.) I especially like that the MaxiCharger can be locked and unlocked with either a smartphone app or RFID card, which means you can protect against strangers accessing an outdoor installation while easily granting a visiting friend or family member access simply by handing them an access card.SpecsConnector: SAE J1772Cable length: 25 ft.Output: up to 12 kW @ 50A, 240VWarranty: 3 years
$599 at Amazon
Lectron
Lectron V-Box Pro
Best no-frills home EV charger
Like
No frills features make installation and use simple; attractive case design
Don't like
Shortest cable and warranty of the bunch; more expensive than Grizzl-E
Lectron's V-Box Pro Level 2 home charging station is very basic in its feature set. There's no Wi-Fi or Bluetooth connections to manage and no app integration. Heck, the installer adjusts the V-Box Pro's power output between 16, 32, 40 and 48 amps with a four-position knob located on the back panel. Keeping it simple allows Lectron to keep the V-Box Pro's price tag appropriately small, making it one of the most affordable Level 2 chargers on this list.The 16-foot cable length is also the shortest of this bunch, so if there's extra room in your budget, you might consider upgrading to the larger, non-Pro V-Box model (yes, their naming convention is backward) model with its longer 20-foot cable and small LCD screen that displays real-time charging info. Personally, I don't think it's worth the extra $100.SpecsConnector: SAE J1772 or NACSCable length: 16 ft.Output: up to 11.5 kW @ 48A, 240VWarranty: 1 year
$370 at Amazon
Enel
Enel X Way JuiceBox 48
Best EV charger for green energy
Like
Optional software schedules charging around "green grid" energy sources; smartphone app and Amazon Alexa integration; multiple power levels for various budgets
Don't like
Green energy software costs extra
Enel X Way's JuiceBox 48 is the brand's newest, most powerful home EV charger, building on the same excellent design as its predecessors. This smart EVSE features Wi-Fi connectivity that enables charge scheduling and monitoring and remote voice control via Amazon Echo and Alexa integration. Enel X Way's software also enables users to schedule their charging around cheaper rates or, with a $50 JuiceNet Green software upgrade, sync their use around green grid generation sources. How well this works will depend on your region, but the feature promises to help ensure your EV's electricity doesn't come from "dirty" sources, like coal.The 48-amp charging station can also be adjusted to accommodate 20- to 60-amp circuits via the Enel X Way app. If your needs are more conservative, consider the JuiceBox 32- or 40-amp versions, which are slightly less powerful at 7.7 kW and 9.6 kW, respectively, but also less expensive.SpecsConnector: SAE J1772Cable length: 25 ft.Output: up to 11.5 kW @ 48A, 240VWarranty: 3 years
$529 at Amazon
Comparison of the best EV chargers for 2024 undefined
EVSEMax charge rateCable lengthHardwired or Plug-inNACS or J1772Phone appWarrantyBest overall home EV charger Tesla Universal Wall Connector11.5 kW @ 48A24 ftHardwiredBothYes4 yearsBest home EV charger runner-up Chargepoint Home Flex12 kW @ 50A23 ftBothBothYes3 yearsBest EV charger value United Chargers Grizzl-E Classic10 kW @ 40A24 ftPlug-inJ1772No3 yearsBest dual EV charger United Chargers Grizzl-E Duo10 kW @ 40A24 ft x 2Plug-inJ1772No3 yearsBest EV charger with security features Autel MaxiCharger AC Elite Home12 kW @ 50A25 ftBothJ1772Yes3 yearsBest no-frills home EV charger Lectron V-Box Pro11.5 kW @ 48A16 ftBothBothNo1 yearBest EV charger for green energy Enel X Way JuiceBox 4811.5 kW @ 48A25 ftBothJ1772Yes3 years
Enlarge Image
WallboxWhat are the benefits of having a Level 2 home EV charger?Level 2 EV chargers are a major upgrade from the Level 1 device that comes with an electric car. For an in-depth explanation of charger speed, check out my guide to Level 1, 2 and DC Fast Charging. Faster than trickle chargingThe main thing you need to know is that a Level 2 charger can charge an EV three to 10 times faster than a Level 1 charger can. A Level 1 charger delivers about 12 amps, give or take, and adds three to five miles of range to a typical electric car in an hour. A Level 2 charger delivers a minimum 16 amps, but most average around 40 with a rate of 15 to 30 miles of range per hour of charge, depending on the car and the specific charger.More convenient than public charging If you're able to do it, charging at home is super convenient when compared with public level 2 or even DC fast charging -- no more waiting for your turn at a public station and then sitting in your car waiting to fill up. Simply plug in when you get home at the end of the day and the car should be ready to rock with a full battery in the morning. For around-town driving, I'd say it's even more convenient than going to the gas station. (Although, longer trips are a different conversation.)Cheaper than public chargingThe biggest benefit is cost. Home energy is typically cheaper per kilowatt-hour than what you'll pay at a DC fast charging station, especially if you use your EV or the charger's software to limit charging to the least expensive overnight off-peak hours. According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average American home pays around $0.17 per kWh, which works out to around $4.33 to drive a Tesla Model 3 100 miles. At a Supercharger, you can expect to pay up to $0.43 per kWh or around $10.75 to go the same distance.Can improve your home's value Finally, installing an EV charger is a home improvement that can increase its value should you ever decide to sell. The upgrades to your home's power system are investments in your property. Adding a charger, or even just a 240-volt outlet, to your garage or driveway can make your home more appealing to buyers who drive EVs or plug-in hybrids.
Enlarge Image
ChargePointHow to prepare for Level 2 home charging?There are a handful of things to think about before installing a Level 2 charger, but the first comes down to where you live and who controls your electrical supply.Get proper permission If you own a home, that's probably all you need to know. You're the boss, and you can proceed with a Level 2 charging station. If you own a condo or townhome, you'll likely need permission from the homeowners' association. That could be as simple as filling out a form, or it could require jumping through a few more hoops, but you should start by reaching out to the association or property management company. If you rent a home or live in an apartment with reserved parking or a garage, hope is not lost. You'll still have to get the landlord's permission, and then determine how much power is available in the parking area and how it's metered.Make sure you're set up for 240-volt powerIf your home has an unused 240-volt circuit, you may already have most of your charger installation bases covered. An electrician may be able to confirm safe amperage and quickly get your charger wired up with minimal fuss or cost. If you have a 240-volt circuit that is being used not far from where you want to park your EV -- maybe an electric dryer in the garage -- there's a good chance you can find a Level 2 charger that will plug into the same outlet. (Most home plug-in Level 2s are available with the common NEMA 14-50 240-volt plug.) This path means you'll never be able to charge your car and run the dryer at the same time, so you may want to consider having an electrician run a second connection anyway. If you don't have a 240-volt current, that's not a huge challenge. The first thing you need is an electrician to tell you whether your existing electrical panel has sufficient capacity for a 240-volt line. There's a reasonable chance it does, but if it doesn't, you'll have to upgrade.Check your home's available amperageNext, you'll want to think about how many amps your home's 240-volt circuit can supply. For safety, the rule is that an EV charger's draw should be within 80% of the rated amperage of the circuit it's connected to. So an EVSE plugging into a 50-amp circuit shouldn't draw more than 40 amps itself. The most powerful 48-amp chargers on our Best List will require a 60-amp circuit for the fastest operation. If, like mine, your house only has room for a 30-amp circuit, then you should limit your charger to a 24-amp draw. Most chargers I recommend can be adjusted or limited to accommodate different circuits during installation. The Grizzl-E Classic, for example, is rated for a maximum of 10 kW at 40 amps but can be adjusted down to 3.8 kW for a 16-amp draw or 5.8 kW at 24 amps. If all of the amps and volts sound like Greek to you, seek the advice of a certified electrician who can advise you on what's safe for your home and what your options for upgrading are, if necessary.Hardwire vs. outletWhile you're at it, you may also want to decide whether to go with a hardwired EV charger, which is semi-permanently connected to your home's electrical grid, or a plug-in charger that connects to a 240-volt electrical outlet. The former gives a cleaner install and may be able to reach higher charging rates; the latter is easier to remove and bring with you if you move but will limit you to a 40-amp output.
Enlarge Image
MegearHow to choose a home EV charger?Because most Level 2 chargers require high-voltage installation, picking one that meets your needs requires a bit more forethought than portable Level 1 cables. You'll need to match the connector type and high-voltage power with your EV, but also consider weatherproofing, cable length, security and the right smart home features.Check your EV's connection typeWhen choosing a home EV charger, you should first check what physical connector your EV uses. If it's a Tesla, it'll use the North American Charging System (NACS) port. Most other EVs will use the catchy name SAE J1772 port… for now. Most automakers that sell electric cars in America have announced an eventual transition to NACS in the near future, but for the next few years, J1772 is here to stay. (Where plug-in hybrids fit in this NACS puzzle remains to be seen, so J1772 will likely stick with us for longer still.)Know your EV charging speed limitArmed with that knowledge, next you'll need to figure out at what speed your EV can charge. Your EV's hardware has a built-in charging speed limit that it won't exceed even if connected to a faster charger -- sort of like how an iPhone connected to a 65W Macbook adapter still only charges at 20W. (This also means you can't really damage your EV by plugging into a more powerful charger.) Knowing this number can help you save money. There's no need, for example, to upgrade your home's circuit to accommodate an 11 kW, 48-amp charger when the Prius Prime you plan on connecting to it tops out at 6.6 kW at 28 amps (unless you're looking to do a little futureproofing.)Indoor or outdoor installationYou'll also want to put some thought into where you plan to install the charger. Will it be indoors in a garage or outside in your driveway or a carport? If you're installing outdoors, security features may be high on your shopping list. Physical locks can keep strangers from stealing your precious kilowatt-hours while you're away from home. Alternatively, software-powered access control can let you grant access to a family member who's pet-sitting for you. The Autel MaxiCharger, for example, can be locked and unlocked with an RFID card or via a smartphone app.High-voltage electronics also need to be protected from the elements. Most Level 2 chargers, including those on our Best List, are rated at least NEMA 3 -- a measurement of protection from environmental elements -- which is acceptable for outdoor use in dust, rain and snow. Some chargers go further to the NEMA 4 standard, which further shields against direct water pressure from, say, a garden hose. If there's lots of rain driven by stiff winds where you live, seeking that NEMA 4 rating is a good choice. Whether your Level 2 charger is going in the garage or out, it's always smart to choose one listed by Underwriters Laboratories or Edison Testing Labs. The UL or ETL listing designates compliance with safety standards established by these nationally recognized testing labs.Proximity to your EVThe charger's location will also determine how long a connector cable you'll need. Most of the Level 2 chargers on our Best List feature 25-foot cables, which should give the most flexibility with regards to where you park and can even stretch to charge another EV or PHEV parked in a two-bay garage. The more cable you have, the more important cable management becomes, so look for an EV charger with a hook or holster to coil and hang the cable and its charging connector, keeping them off the ground, away from the elements and out of your EV's path when parking.Bell and whistles Finally, we come to the bells and the whistles. Many of the home EV chargers on this list are smart chargers that connect to your home and the internet via Wi-Fi. This data connection allows you to adjust and control the charger, schedule charging times to accommodate off-peak energy rates and monitor how much energy is used during charging and how much it's costing. The JuiceBox series even includes Amazon Alexa connectivity allowing users to make specific requests like "Alexa, tell JuiceBox to add 100 miles to my car" to begin charging. Some EV chargers even feature dual charging cables allowing two EVs to be plugged in at the same time, sharing a circuit by either splitting available power or charging one after the other.I'm a big fan of tech -- I've been writing about it for nearly 16 years -- but you may not need most or any of this advanced functionality. Many EVs already feature onboard data connections and apps that enable charge scheduling and remote monitoring, rendering these features redundant if built into the EVSE. Sometimes, a smart EVSE is simply less reliable than a simpler model despite the additional cost and complexity. Figuring out what your car can do on its own before you splurge on a charger can save hundreds of dollars and hours of headaches.
Enlarge Image
Enel XHow much does it cost to install a home EV charger?The cost of a home EV charger installation can vary based on multiple factors, including the age of your home and the state of its electrical system, the energy needs of your EV and its EVSE, local permit and license fees, labor costs and more. Different surveys by different organizations put the average cost of installing a Level 2 charge station between $650 and $800. That's on top of the charger, of course. A best-case scenario installation in a new home that already has a 40-60 amp breaker ready for connection can be as low as $400. Older homes that require more work or upgrades to their power panel can range from $1,000 to $2,500 or more. This is the aspect of the budget where your mileage may vary the most, and most homeowners will want to consult an electrician for the most accurate estimate to safely have their charger installed. Your EV's manufacturer, the dealership that sold the car or your local utility may be able to recommend a preferred installer for your area. Many automakers are also partnered with installation service providers, like Qmerit, that act as a one-stop shop to help new EV owners with assessment and permits, cost estimates, connecting with licensed installers and finding local installation incentives to save money.What is the fastest home EV charger?The vast majority of Level 2 home EV chargers are designed around relatively common 40 to 60-amp, single-phase 240-volt American residential circuits and the 7- to 11-kilowatt maximum charging speed of most EVs. There are a few electric cars that can exceed this speed limit with an extra beefy charger. The Porsche Wall Charger Connect and Ford Charge Station Pro are 80-amp EVSEs that can send up to 19.2 kW to a connected EV with a fast enough onboard charger.The $1,670 requires a Porsche Taycan that has also been upgraded with a dealer-installed $1,850 onboard charger. With both home and in-car hardware in place, charging time for a Performance Battery Plus drops from 10.5 to 5.3 hours. Eager early adopters have estimated that with labor costs to upgrade the car and add a 100-amp circuit to your home, the final bill can easily exceed $5,500, making it tough to justify for all but the deepest, most impatient pockets.What about charging your home with your car?One of the holy grails of home EV charging is bidirectional power, which is the ability to draw energy stored in an EV's battery back out of the charging port for use outside of the vehicle. Bidirectional charging allows an EV to, for example, power your home, keeping the lights on during a blackout. Setup for this level of integration is much more involved, requiring a specific vehicle that supports the technology, a smart home power panel that can accept power from an EV and the bidirectional charger itself, which is often significantly more expensive than a normal Level 2 charger.The aforementioned Ford Charge Station Pro is included with the purchase of the F-150 Lightning when equipped with the Extended Range battery, but it can also be purchased separately for $1,310. The 19.2 kW charger can add up to 30 miles of range per hour connected and enables the connected full-size electric pickup to power your home during a blackout via its Intelligent Backup Power feature.Tesla's Cybertruck also supports Powershare bidirectional power when connected with the automaker's Universal Wall Connector and its Gateway 3V power management hardware. According to the automaker, the angular utility vehicle can power a home during an outage for over three days with 11.5 kW of continuous output.How we evaluate home EV chargersWhen selecting the best EV chargers for this list, I leaned heavily on my 16 years of experience evaluating electric cars and plug-in hybrids for CNET reviews. Over the years, I've been able to learn from the EV automakers, their engineers and other industry experts about what to look for in a good home EV charger. I have also spoken extensively with certified electricians while getting charging set up for our long-term Kia EV6 test car at my home last year. Compiling that information into this guide, I've chosen what I think will be the best home EV chargers you can buy today with an eye toward the needs of the EVs of tomorrow. EV charger FAQs
Do I need a Level 2 charger?
Maybe. A Level 2 charger will be faster than the Level 1 AC charger that typically comes with every EV. Whether it's worth the additional cost depends on your living circumstances, your driving habits, your EV or PHEV's range and your access to public charging stations. If you want maximum convenience and don't want to have to rely on public, high-speed stations for daily driving, you probably want Level 2, which can substantially reduce the small hassles and anxiety of owning an electric car.
Show more
Which is the best home charger for electric cars?
The best EV charger for you depends on a host of circumstances: how and where you plan to use it, how soon or frequently you expect to move, whether you want to use an app to manage it and even the electric vehicle you plan to charge. This buying guide will provide more thorough guidance, but the best answer for the broadest number of people is a plug-in Level 2 charger with a peak charge rate around 40 amps.
Show more
Are all EV home chargers the same?
Home EV chargers can be divided two ways: By their charging speed and their connector types. Charging speed is split into Levels 1 and 2. Level 2 chargers are generally between six and 10 times faster than Level 1, but require 240-volt power rather than the more common 120-volt socket. For home chargers, there are two connector types: SAE J1772 or Tesla's NACS connector.
Show more
Can you buy a Level 3 charger for home?
Technically, yes, you can buy a home Level 3 charger, but you probably wouldn't want to. There are a few 480-volt AC chargers that can accept three-phase power, but that's a very specific power requirement that calls for a dedicated commercial power line, which would be a huge, prohibitively expensive hassle for a homeowner. That's before you factor $1,500 to $2,000 for the charger itself.Meanwhile, Autel's upcoming MaxiCharger DC V2X uses the same CCD connection as DC fast charging stations, but its output of 40 amps at 300 volts means this 12 kW station is only slightly faster than the 11.5 kW AC stations on this list. Rather, the MaxiCharger DC uses direct current to facilitate bidirectional charging, integration with solar and stationary battery storage and Green Energy Trading with the grid. Pricing, availability and compatible vehicles are all still TBD.
Show more
Antuan Goodwin
Read more from Antuan
Antuan started out in the automotive industry the old-fashioned way, by turning wrenches in a driveway and picking up speeding tickets. He now has nearly 20 years of expertise and experience behind the wheel of hundreds of cars, including electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen, and traditional combustion vehicles.
For each car he tests, Antuan covers more than 200 miles behind the wheel and evaluates driving dynamics; acceleration and braking performance; range; and efficiency.
Antuan's goal is to use his extensive car knowledge to educate CNET readers and help with their next car-related buying decision. Whether you're EV-curious, an EV-enthusiast or a combustion-car loyalist, Antuan will bring you the unbiased advice, reviews, best lists and news you need.
You can reach Antuan at antuan.goodwin@cnet.com
Solar Installer Guides
Best Solar Products and Companies
Best Solar Panels
Best Solar Batteries
Most Efficient Solar Panels
Best Solar Companies
Best Solar Shingles
Best Portable Solar Panels
Best Solar Generators
Best Solar Inverters
Solar Installers by State
California
Washington
Ohio
Florida
New Jersey
Michigan
Texas
Virgina
Alabama
Arizona
Maryland
Oklahoma
Solar Installers & Storage
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Tesla Solar Roof Review
Sunrun Solar Panels Review
GAF Energy Review
Sunnova Solar Review
Smartflower Solar Review
SunPower Review
Trinity Solar Review
ADT Solar Review
Enphase Battery Review
Tesla Powerwall Review
Sunpower Sunvault Review
Generac Pwrcell Review
Sonnen Battery Review
LG ESS Home 8 Review
Panasonic Evervolt Battery Review
Solar Resources and Guides
Why Solar Panels Will Likely Keep Getting Cheaper
How to Make Your Solar Panels Last Longer
How the Solar Tax Credit Works
How Much Do Solar Panels Cost?
This Is How Many Solar Panels You'll Need to Power Your Home
Solar Power Purchase Agreements Explained: The Pros and Cons
Free Solar Panels: What's in the Fine Print?
Avoid Solar Panel Scams: 7 Tips for Getting a Great Deal
Solar Panels Will Eventually Save You Money. How to Know When the real Savings Begin
This Is How Long You Can Expect Your Solar Panel Installation to Take
The Pros and Cons of Solar Panels
Other Energy Saving Guides
Other Types of Energy
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Portable Power Stations
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced
Home Generator Buying Guide
Heat Pump vs. Furnace
Anker Portable Power Station
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Enhanced vs. Nest Thermostat
Nest Learning Thermostat vs. Nest Thermostat
Storage Tank Water Heaters vs. Tankless Water Heaters
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium vs. Ecobee Smart
Living Off the Grid Series
Moving Off- Grid: My Ultimate Pandemic Project Is About More Than Utility Bills
How Living With Solar Panels Demystified Electricity for Me
For Life Off the Grid, Batteries Mean Independence
The Biggest Pros and Cons of Living Off-Grid Arent What I Expected
The Hidden (and Not So Hidden) Expenses of Living Off Grid
My Off-Grid Project: The Secrets I Learned to Save on Solar
Article updated on May 11, 2024 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Antuan Goodwin
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
Antuan Goodwin Senior Writer, Electrified Cars Antuan started out in the automotive industry the old-fashioned way, by turning wrenches in a driveway and picking up speeding tickets. He now has nearly 20 years of expertise and experience behind the wheel of hundreds of cars, including electric, hybrid, plug-in hybrid, hydrogen, and traditional combustion vehicles.
For each car he tests, Antuan covers more than 200 miles behind the wheel and evaluates driving dynamics; acceleration and braking performance; range; and efficiency.
Antuan's goal is to use his extensive car knowledge to educate CNET readers and help with their next car-related buying decision. Whether you're EV-curious, an EV-enthusiast or a combustion-car loyalist, Antuan will bring you the unbiased advice, reviews, best lists and news you need.
You can reach Antuan at antuan.goodwin@cnet.com Expertise Nearly two decades of testing, driving, reporting on, writing about, reviewing, and editing content about electric and ICE cars. Category focus is on electrified cars, EVs, HEVs, PHEVs, ICE cars, EV infrastructure, EV chargers, EV adapters, EV news, auton Credentials North American Car, Truck and SUV of the Year (NACTOY) Awards Juror
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
174175176177178179180+ Experts Interviewed 030405060708091011121314+ Companies Reviewed 108109110111112113+ Products Reviewed
How we test
We thoroughly evaluate each company and product we review and ensure our stories meet our high editorial standards.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.