5 of my favorite Linux distros ready to use out of the box - no setup required | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Linux
5 of my favorite Linux distros ready to use out of the box - no setup required
These distros are easy to install, include the right apps, skip the bloat and ads, and automatically detect your hardware. Easy peasy. You're welcome.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 7:00 p.m. PT
Jack Wallen / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET key takeawaysThese Linux distributions require zero post-install work.Each of these options is usable out of the box.You won't need to install software or tweak the desktop.Every time I've had to install Windows (which is a nightmare), it seems there's always work to do to get it working as needed. You may need to install drivers and software, remove ads, update the system (which can take a long time), remove bloatware, tweak the UI, disable taskbar and lock screen widgets, disable system notifications, enable system protection, and more.With many Linux distributions, the list is considerably shorter. If you opt to use the right Linux distribution, you'll find it might be just perfect out of the box.Also: The best Linux laptops right nowBut which Linux distributions offer such a post-install nirvana? The list might not be long, but it's enough to give you choices. Each of the distributions below requires little work once the OS is up and running. To make this list even more appealing, all of these distros are not even remotely challenging to install. To achieve this standing, I think a distribution must:Be simple to installInclude the necessary apps out of the boxNot require any changes before the desktop is usefulNot insist that the user upgrades immediately after installationInclude little to no bloatwareNot include ads (of any sort)Detect most (if not all) hardware automaticallyWith those factors sorted, let's look at the list of best out-of-the-box distributions.1. Linux MintIt should be no surprise that Linux Mint is on this list. I would go so far as to say that Linux Mint is the single best out-of-the-box experience of any OS on the market. Once you've installed the OS, you are ready to go. Sure, you might have to set up your email accounts in the default mail client, but other than that, you won't have to do much. Also: Thinking about switching to Linux? 6 things you need to knowLinux Mint checks all of the above boxes and offers a user interface that is about as simple as it gets. Anyone will feel right at home using the default installation and will be thrilled that they have to do nothing after the OS is installed to be productive, creative, or entertained. Although Linux Mint is not my distribution of choice, I certainly envy those who use it because of how little work they have to do out of the box. Seriously, it cannot be overstated how easy Linux Mint is to use immediately after the OS installation. If you are looking for the best out-of-the-box experience of any OS on the market, Linux Mint is what you want.
Screenshot by sjvn/ZDNET2. ManjaroYou might not expect to find an Arch-based Linux distribution on a list related to ease of use. Well, get over the doubt because Manjaro fits this particular bill perfectly. Manjaro makes Arch incredibly easy to install. The distro defaults to a gorgeous KDE Plasma desktop, includes all the software you need (without bloatware), doesn't require immediate installation, has outstanding hardware detection, and doesn't require any UI changes to make it useful. Also: XeroLinux could be the most beautiful Linux desktop on the marketOut of the box, Manjaro is surprisingly useful. You might also think that KDE Plasma is a bit too much for people seeking a simple out-of-the-box experience, but this particular desktop doesn't demand anything from users. Sure, you can customize KDE Plasma to your heart's content, but you don't have to.
Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNET3. ZorinOSZorinOS is about as complete an operating system as you'll ever use, and the onboarding experience is great. ZorinOS includes the software you need (and not much more), a simple tool for connecting your mobile phone, an easy installation, and a handy Zorin Appearance app to help users select the desktop layout they want. The latest release of ZorinOS (18 beta) is also gorgeous, so there'll be no reason to tweak it out of the box. ZorinOS uses the Brave browser by default, so you don't even have to install a more secure browser. Also: Why ZorinOS 18 might be the new best Linux distro - and I've tried them allYou also get the Evolution email client, which includes a full groupware suite (Email, Calendar, Contacts, to-dos, and a much more modern UI than you'll find when the app is installed on other distributions). And because ZorinOS has Flatpak support rolled into the app store, you can install proprietary apps like Slack and Spotify out of the box.
Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNET4. Pop!_OSFor a distribution that was created for developers (and similar creators), Pop!_OS is surprisingly user-friendly out of the box. One of the best things about Pop!_OS is that you can download ISOs for either Nvidia or AMD graphics, so you know there will be no reason to install drivers for whatever GPU you have on your machine. Pop!_OS also only adds the software you need to get to work after installation. With System76 soon to be migrating from GNOME to the COSMIC Desktop, the distribution has even more reasons to be on this list. COSMIC is far easier to use than the GNOME-based desktop, is exponentially faster, has a more logical workflow, and includes a fantastic tiling window manager option. Also: 8 ways I quickly leveled up my Linux skills - and you can tooAnd, yes, Pop!_OS includes all the software you need and far more configurations than the GNOME-based option will ever have, which means you won't need to hunt down extensions to make the desktop useful. Pop!_OS has been my default Linux distribution for years, and I've watched it evolve into the spectacular desktop option it is today.
Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNET5. Ubuntu BudgieUbuntu Budgie holds a special place in my heart because it's a wonderful desktop to look at and use. This Linux distribution requires almost no work after installation, includes all the software you need (with no added bloat), and offers a delightful out-of-the-box experience. I've installed Ubuntu Budgie many times over the years, and always look at the default desktop and think it doesn't need anything else. Sure, I might change the panel to a dock, but other than that, I'm good with the default desktop. Coming from someone who's rather picky about their desktops, that's saying something. Even with Pop!_OS (especially with COSMIC), I tend to do some tweaking after installation is finished. With Ubuntu Budgie, not so much.
Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETYou can always find something you want to change with your desktop environment, but if you're looking for a Linux distribution that doesn't need any changes, these are your best places to start.Open Source
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
The open-source tools that could disrupt the entire IT incident management market
This Linux distro could let your old laptop 'shine on' after Windows 10's sunset
6 Linux myths, busted
5 lightweight Linux distributions with very low system requirements
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
Why I recommend this Windows mini PC to casual users and professionals alike (and it's priced well)
How to easily switch your PC from Windows to Linux Mint - for free
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use