GSoC 2025 Endterm - Improving Plugin Modernizer
Back to blog
GSoC 2025 Endterm - Improving Plugin Modernizer
Raunak Madan
August 30, 2025
Share
Hello everyone,
This blog showcases the work done on the Plugin Modernizer Tool during Google Summer of Code 2025. For a detailed description of the project, please refer to the project page.
Table of Contents
About the Project
Phase 1
Phase 2
Next Steps
Acknowledgements
Useful Links
About the Project
The project aims to extract modernization metadata, such as whether the modernization was successful and what PR it generated for the plugin, etc.
It helps to track the impact of the plugin-modernizer-tool, the success and failure rate of the modernization.
We aim to extract the metadata and push to a public repository with additional actions over there, validating the changes. Additionally, we extract comprehensive reports on applied recipes and plugin migrations to provide a high-level overview.
Phase 1
In this phase, we accomplished the following tasks:
Automatic Extraction of Modernization Metadata: Record migration status, pull request URL and status, check runs information, and more.
Metadata Publishing: Automatically pushes metadata to a public repository — metadata-plugin-modernizer.
GitHub Action Workflows:
Validate incoming metadata and auto-merge PRs.
Dynamically update metadata.
Consolidate metadata for each plugin.
Generate comprehensive reports on applied recipes and plugin migrations to provide a high-level overview.
Check out the demonstration of the tool from the Jenkins in Google Summer of Code page.
Phase 2
In this phase, we accomplished the following tasks:
Created and Improved Recipes: Added new recipes such as Migrate to Java 25, Migrate Commons Lang 2 to Lang 3 and Commons Text, and improved the Migrate to JUnit 5 recipe.
Bug Fixes: Resolved minor bugs.
Documentation: Updated the documentation to be more beginner-friendly.
Next Steps
Push the consolidated metadata and the reports to the Jenkins reports site.
Visualizing the metadata on the Jenkins statistics site.
Automate Running Recipes on Plugins with Low Health Scores.
Acknowledgements
A huge thank you to my mentors, Valentin Delaye, Bruno Verachten, Sridhar Sivakumar, Phillipp Glanz, for their constant support, refining the approach, and timely reviews throughout the journey. They were a great reason for making this a success.
I’d also like to thank the organization admins Kris Stern, Bruno Verachten, and Alyssa Tong for always checking in and offering help, your kindness and support mean a lot.
Useful Links
Plugin Modernizer Tool
Metadata Repository
Project Proposal
Project Slack Channel
Weekly Meetings
Daily Progress/Notes
Jenkins GSoC 2025 Playlist
Reflecting back it was a really great experience with Jenkins, which enabled me to learn new skills, mindset, and make meaningful contributions.
Looking forward to continue contributing at Jenkins in the future.
gsoc
gsoc2025-endterm
open-rewrite
plugin-modernization
metadata-storage
About the author
Raunak Madan
Raunak is an undergraduate student pursuing his Bachelors in Computer Applications (BCA) from Bharati Vidyapeeth Institute of Management and Research (BVIMR), New Delhi, India.
He is passionate about open-source software and his journey with Jenkins began in December 2024, after an event KubeCon + CloudNativeCon held in Delhi, which sparked his interest in these technologies.
In 2025, he was selected for Google Summer of Code as a contributor to work on the project Improving Plugin Modernizer.
In his free time he enjoys playing badminton and reading books.