How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Windows
Windows 11
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Microsoft really doesn't want customers to upgrade older PCs, but there are workarounds for many models. Here's everything you need to know.
Written by
Ed Bott, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 12, 2025 at 5:09 a.m. PT
zhihao/Moment via Getty ImagesFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysMost PCs from the last 15 years can be upgraded to Windows 11, even if they fail compatibility checks.PCs originally sold with Windows 10 can usually be upgraded after one small registry edit.On older PCs and those with unusual configurations, a third-party utility does the job.On Oct. 14, 2025, Microsoft will stop delivering security updates to your Windows 10 PC unless you enroll that PC in the Extended Security Updates program.If you try to upgrade to Windows 11 on a PC that's more than five or six years old, you'll probably encounter an error message telling you -- in no uncertain terms -- that your old PC doesn't qualify because its CPU isn't on the official list of compatible processors. Microsoft has stated, forcefully, that it will not revise those requirements. You will also hit roadblocks if your PC doesn't have a Trusted Platform Module (TPM) version 2.0, or if the TPM is not enabled. Also: Two ways to get free Windows 10 security updates through October 2026That might be the official policy, but -- as with everything Windows-related -- it pays to read the fine print. Those pesky restrictions prevent you from automatically upgrading to Windows 11 using Windows Update or the Windows 11 Installation Assistant. Yet, as I detail in ZDNET's Windows 11 FAQ, there are documented workarounds for most PCs that were originally built for Windows 10. Over the past few years, Microsoft has played a cat-and-mouse game with enthusiasts, adding occasional speed bumps that make it more difficult to bypass these compatibility checks. There are workarounds for most modern PCs, but some older devices, especially those built using AMD processors, might be out of luck. The instructions below take all those developments into account. Also: Can your old PC handle the Windows 11 upgrade? How to find out - before you tryThese instructions also assume that you have a PC with an x64 CPU (not ARM and not 32-bit), running a retail or OEM edition of Windows 10 (Home or Pro), and that you are signed in as an administrator on the PC you want to upgrade.  Which option should you choose? Please don't skip over this section.This article describes two upgrade options. To take advantage of the workaround described in option 1 below, your computer must meet all the other requirements for Windows 11.It must be configured to start up using UEFI, not a legacy BIOS configuration.Secure Boot must be supported, although it does not need to be enabled. (But seriously, folks, you should enable Secure Boot.)A TPM must be enabled; version 1.2 is OK, but a system without any TPM or with the TPM disabled will fail. Any PC that was originally designed for Windows 10 should include a TPM 2.0.To check these details on a PC you're considering upgrading, run the System Information utility, Msinfo32.exe, and look at the System Summary page. Pay special attention to the BIOS Mode value. If it says "Legacy," you'll need to reconfigure your system to UEFI mode (and convert your system disk from MBR to GPT partitioning) before you can install Windows 11 as a normal upgrade.Also: Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anywayTo see whether your PC has a TPM enabled, run the Trusted Platform Module Management tool, Tpm.msc. If your computer includes a TPM and it's turned on, this app will display information about it. Under the TPM Manufacturer Information heading, check the specification version to confirm that it is 2.0. If there's no TPM, or if the TPM is disabled in firmware settings, you'll see a message that says "Compatible TPM cannot be found." If you're unable (or unwilling) to change from Legacy BIOS to UEFI, or if you have an older PC that doesn't have a TPM option at all, you'll need to use the second option, which takes advantage of an undocumented hack that allows you to bypass the compatibility checks and complete the upgrade. Skip to the Option 2 section of this post for details on how to use the free Rufus utility to perform this upgrade. Also: Windows 11 upgrade failed? These are my 4 most powerful troubleshooting secretsFinally, note that Microsoft added a new set of restrictions as part of the Windows 11 version 24H2 update. These changes require a CPU that supports specific instructions -- SSE4.2 and PopCnt. Most PCs with Intel CPUs from 2009 or later will meet this standard. AMD CPUs from 2013 or later should also meet these requirements. But it is impossible to upgrade to Windows 11 version 24H2 on a PC that was built in 2008 or earlier. For details, see "Microsoft blocked your Windows 11 upgrade? This trusty tool can (probably) fix that."If you plan to perform a clean installation of Windows 11, you can boot from installation media and run Windows Setup. That option skips the CPU compatibility check completely (but still requires a TPM and Secure Boot support). After the installation completes, you'll need to reinstall all your apps, restore your data files, and tweak settings to personalize your system preferences. Want to avoid all that hassle? Choose the option that's appropriate for your hardware. Option 1: Use this simple registry edit With this registry edit, you can bypass CPU checks and accept any TPM version. Please be aware that this option requires that you run the Setup program from within your current Windows installation. You can't boot from a USB flash drive and install Windows 11 this way. This process requires four steps.
1. Change one key in the Windows registry
You need to make one small change to the Windows registry. For more than three years, this change was documented at Microsoft's support website, but the company removed those instructions in December 2024. (Here's an archived version of that support article.) This change tells the Windows 11 Setup program to skip the check for compatible CPUs and to allow installation on a PC with an older TPM (version 1.2). The usual warnings apply when working with the registry; I recommend you make a complete backup before proceeding.Open Registry Editor (Regedit.exe) and navigate to the following key:HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\Setup\MoSetupIf the MoSetup key doesn't exist, you need to create it. Right-click the node for HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\Setup in the left-hand navigation pane, then choose New > Key. Name it MoSetup and press Enter.Also: Wiping your Windows laptop? Here's the simplest way to erase all personal dataSelect the MoSetup key and then right-click in any empty space in the pane on the right. Choose the option to create a new DWORD value. (Don't choose the QWORD option!)Replace the default name for that key by typing the text AllowUpgradesWithUnsupportedTPMOrCPU and then press Enter. Then double-click the new value and change the "Value data" box to 1. The result should look like this:
Show more
Use this registry tweak to override the Windows 11 CPU compatibility check. You must have a TPM (any version) and Secure Boot must be enabled. Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETCheck for errors before proceeding -- Windows is frustratingly literal about the contents of the registry, and if you misspell the key or value name, or if you create the required value in the wrong location, your upgrade will fail. Click OK to save your change, and then restart your PC.
2. Download the Windows 11 ISO
On the PC you want to upgrade, go to the Windows 11 Download page (aka.ms/DownloadWindows11) and choose the option at the bottom of the page, "Download Windows 11 Disk Image (ISO) for x64 devices." Save the ISO file in your Downloads folder.Note that this is a big file. Depending on the speed of your internet connection, the download could take a while.Also: The ultimate Windows 11 upgrade guide: Everything you need to knowFor those running Windows with English (UK) as the selected language, you might run into problems during the installation process. The default download is English (United States) but you also have the option to choose
English (International)
when prompted for a product language. Several readers have reported that choosing the wrong language results in an upgrade that does not allow you to keep installed apps and data files. If that happens, back out of the upgrade, download the other language option, and try again.
Show more
3. Mount the ISO file in File Explorer
After the download completes, open File Explorer and double-click the ISO file you downloaded in the previous step. Doing so mounts the file as a virtual DVD drive in its own folder, with its own drive letter.
Show more
4. Run Windows Setup
In File Explorer, find the Setup.exe file in the virtual drive you opened in the previous step and double-click it to begin the upgrade. You'll see a stern warning about compatibility issues and the possibility that performing an upgrade will mean you are not entitled to future updates. You can safely click Accept to move past this message. (For details on what that warning message really means, see "Is Microsoft really going to cut off security updates for your 'unsupported' Windows 11 PC?" Spoiler: They are not going to cut off security updates.) After you click OK on that dialog box, your upgrade should proceed without any serious issues.Also: Why Windows 11 requires a TPM - and how to get around itIf you're upgrading from the same edition (Home or Pro), you'll have three options: You can keep your apps, settings, and files (Full Upgrade); keep your data files but start fresh with apps and settings (Keep Data Only); or start completely fresh (Clean Install).
Show more
Option 2: Use the free Rufus utility On older PCs without a TPM and on PCs that don't support Secure Boot and UEFI, you'll need to use an undocumented hack to bypass the compatibility checker. It is technically possible to do this manually by replacing the Appraiserres.dll file (in the Sources subfolder on the Windows 11 installer drive) with a zero-byte version and then making a series of registry edits. But it's simpler to use the free, open-source Rufus utility to create installation media (on a USB flash) drive that includes these tweaks automatically. To get started, download Rufus version 4.6 or later. Earlier versions won't work, thanks to changes Microsoft made in October 2024 to its compatibility checking tools. For details of how the newer versions work, see "Microsoft blocked your Windows 11 upgrade? This just-released tool can get the job done." In addition, be aware that using Rufus will not allow you to bypass the new restrictions on very old PCs that were introduced with Windows 11 version 24H2. If you have a PC with a CPU that lacks support for SSE4.2 and PopCnt instructions, not even Rufus can help. (Of course, any PC that fails that test is nearly 20 years old and probably deserves to be retired.) Also: Yes, you can upgrade that old PC to Windows 11, even if Microsoft says no. These readers proved itTo get started, you'll need to download the Windows 11 ISO from aka.ms/DownloadWindows11. Choose the option at the bottom of the page, "Download Windows 11 Disk Image (ISO) for x64 devices." Save the ISO file in the Downloads folder of your Windows system drive so you can find it easily. You'll also need a USB flash drive of at least 16 GB in size. You will reformat this drive as part of the process, so back up any data on that drive first -- and do not store the Windows 11 ISO here!Download Rufus from the developer's site or from the Microsoft Store and run the app.In Rufus, choose the USB drive and then choose the "Disk or ISO image" option.Click the Select button, choose the Windows 11 ISO you downloaded earlier (hint: it's in your Downloads folder), and then click Start.In the Windows User Experience dialog, select the first checkbox to remove hardware requirements, as shown in the screenshot below. Adjust any other settings as you prefer.Click OK to accept those changes and then click Start to begin creating the bootable installation drive.
Be sure to choose the top checkbox here to bypass the compatibility check for the Windows 11 upgrade. Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETAfter Rufus successfully creates your installer, open that USB drive in File Explorer, and double-click Setup. Do not try to upgrade by booting from that USB drive and performing a clean install; it won't work. Several readers have reported that Setup failed prematurely and displayed an error message ("An unsupported operation was attempted") when run from media created using Windows 11 version 24H2 and the latest version of Rufus. The fix? Watch carefully at the beginning of Setup for an option labeled "Change how setup downloads updates." Click that link and choose the "Not right now" option, as shown here. That should allow setup to continue without interruption.
If Setup quits unexpectedly with an error message, try again but choose this option insted.  Screenshot by Ed Bott/ZDNETAs is the case with the other option, you'll see a warning about compatibility issues. It's a scare tactic. (For details on what the language in that warning message actually means, see "Is Microsoft really going to cut off security updates for your 'unsupported' Windows 11 PC?") After you click Accept on that dialog box, your upgrade should proceed without any serious issues. Also: Microsoft blocked your Windows 11 upgrade? This trusty tool can (probably) fix thatMy ZDNET colleague Lance Whitney has more details on the other options available with Rufus in "How to install Windows 11 the way you want (and bypass Microsoft's restrictions)." Did your upgrade work? If you've tried this upgrade, I want to hear about your experience. If it worked, please share the details. If you run into snags, send me an email so we can figure out what's going wrong. Be sure to include details -- the make and model of your PC and screenshots of any error messages. I've set up a special inbox just for this feedback: Win11Upgrade [at] realworldwindows.com. This article was originally published on April 9, 2022, but has been updated multiple times since then to add new details and incorporate feedback from readers. It was last updated on Sept. 12, 2025.Windows
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PC
40+ Windows keyboard shortcuts that effectively improved my work productivity
Yes, you can run Windows apps on Linux
- here are my top 5 ways
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
How to undo OneDrive Backup and restore your personal files to your Windows 11 PC
40+ Windows keyboard shortcuts that effectively improved my work productivity
Yes, you can run Windows apps on Linux
- here are my top 5 ways
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
Microsoft said these 400 readers couldn't upgrade to Windows 11. They did it anyway
Microsoft gives Windows 10 its penultimate update - but saves the best for Windows 11
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use