What Melania Trump Wore During the UK State Visit - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Entertainment
Melania Trump stuck to her go-to neutral outfits for her UK visit, with one exception
By
Samantha Grindell Pettyjohn
Melania Trump wore some memorable outfits during her state visit to the UK.
Nathan Howard - WPA Pool/Getty Images/Doug Mills-Pool/Getty Images
2025-09-18T16:49:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
President Donald Trump and Melania Trump went to the UK for a state visit.
Melania Trump mostly wore neutral-toned outfits throughout the visit, as she has for much of 2025.
However, she switched it up with a bright yellow dress for a state banquet.
Military fanfare, royal greetings, and a dinner packed with tech founders were just some of the highlights from President Donald Trump and Melania Trump's state visit to the United Kingdom.The two-day visit also offered a peek into Melania Trump's closet. The first lady was dressed to impress in an assortment of designer looks as she spent time with Queen Camilla and Kate Middleton, the Princess of Wales.
Most of her outfits reflected the neutral tones she has favored in Trump's second term, which have helped her keep a low profile as first lady. However, the dress she chose for a state banquet at Windsor Castle was a departure from her typical style.Take a look at all of the outfits the first lady wore during her visit to the UK.
Melania Trump arrived in the UK in a trench coat.
President Donald Trump and Melania Trump disembark Air Force One at London Stansted Airport.
Anna Moneymaker/Getty Images
On Tuesday evening, the first lady stepped off Air Force One in an ankle-length trench coat from Burberry.She paired the jacket with Christian Dior Empreinte leather riding boots and a black, long-sleeve shirt, which peeked out from underneath the collar.The jacket's length elevated the trench, making it feel like more of a statement piece than it would have been if it had hit at the knee.
The president and first lady wore coordinating ensembles to meet with the royal family.
Donald and Melania Trump in Windsor, England.
WPA Pool/Getty Images
On Wednesday, Melania Trump met the royal family at Windsor Castle in one of her signature neutral-toned looks, designed by Dior.Buttons lined both sides of her gray blazer, which cinched at the waist before flaring. The jacket coordinated with her pencil skirt and hit just below the knee.She paired the set with pumps and a wide-brimmed purple hat that subtly matched Trump's tie.Lauren Rothman, a style strategist who works with business leaders and politicians, told Business Insider that Melania Trump's hat reinforced "her role as a visual equal to the king and Camilla."
Melania Trump chose a surprisingly colorful gown for a white-tie state banquet at Windsor Castle.
Queen Camilla, King Charles, Donald Trump, and Melania Trump at St George's Hall for a state banquet.
Doug Mills/POOL/AFP via Getty Images.
In stark contrast to the subdued looks she has worn for much of 2025, the first lady wore a bright yellow Carolina Herrera dress to the state banquet at Windsor Castle, which had a white-tie dress code.The off-the-shoulder dress had long sleeves and a slit that cut up one side of the floor-length skirt, making the ensemble feel daring. A wide purple belt cinched Melania Trump's waist, and the lavender contrasted with the yellow on the skirt.She brought even more color to the look with green, dangly earrings. Nude pumps completed the outfit.The dress was certainly a departure from the hues Melania Trump has worn lately. However, since her husband's second term began, the first lady has been wearing American brands more frequently, and Carolina Herrera, a New York-based fashion house, fits that theme.
On Thursday, the first lady returned to neutral tones in a caramel set.
Queen Camilla and Melania Trump tour Queen Mary's Dolls' House and the Royal Library in Windsor, England.
Aaron Chown -
WPA Pool/Getty Images
Melania Trump's colorful banquet dress seemed to be a one-off for the UK trip, as she was once again wearing muted tones on Thursday for a tour of Queen Mary's Dolls' House and the Royal Library with Queen Camilla.The first lady wore a brown leather jacket and skirt from Louis Vuitton. Both garments' pockets and hems were trimmed with cream embroidery, and the collar of her blazer was scalloped. She paired the look with coordinating Manolo Blahnik pumps.The detailing made the ensemble stand out despite its neutral color.
Melania Trump and the Princess of Wales wore complementary looks for a visit to Frogmore Gardens.
Kate Middleton and Melania Trump talk in Frogmore Gardens in Windsor, England.
Yui Mok - WPA Pool/Getty Images
Later on Thursday, the first lady spent time in Frogmore Gardens at Windsor Castle with Kate Middleton, where they met with members of the Scouts' Squirrels program.Both the princess and the first lady chose Ralph Lauren garments for the engagement. The designer made Kate's midi skirt and boots, as well as Melania Trump's suede jacket.The first lady's jacket was belted at the waist, which has become a go-to silhouette for her when it comes to blazers. She wore the jacket with cream trousers and brown flats.Ralph Lauren is arguably the most iconic American designer, making it a fitting choice for Melania Trump to wear to close out the trip.
Recommended video
Melania Trump
Style
Fashion
More
Lifestyle
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account