I tested the best Windows tablets, from rugged models to sleek, lightweight devices | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: September 23, 2025 at 11:28 AM PDT
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
Updated on: September 23, 2025 at 11:28 AM PDT
The best Windows tablets you can buy in 2025 from Microsoft, Lenovo, and more
We tested the best Windows tablets of 2025 for back-to-school and work. Here's how the machines rank in performance, portability, and all-day use.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Reviewed by
Allison Jewell
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Microsoft Surface Pro | Best Windows tablet overall
Best Windows tablet overall
Microsoft Surface Pro
View now View at Amazon Asus ROG Flow Z13 | Best Windows tablet for content creators
Best Windows tablet for content creators
Asus ROG Flow Z13
View now View at B&H Photo Video DT Research Rugged Tablet | Best rugged Windows laptop
Best rugged Windows laptop
DT Research Rugged Tablet
View now View at CDW Asus ProArt PZ13 | Best Windows tablet for artists
Best Windows tablet for artists
Asus ProArt PZ13
View now View at Best Buy HP OmniBook X Flip 16 | Best Windows tablet for work
Best Windows tablet for work
HP OmniBook X Flip 16
View now View at HP
Asus Zenbook Duo 14 | Best dual-screen tablet
Best dual-screen tablet
Asus Zenbook Duo 14
View now View at Asus Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Gen 2 Detachable | Best Windows tablet for work alternative
Best Windows tablet for work alternative
Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Gen 2 Detachable
View now View at Lenovo Dell Latitude 7230 Rugged Extreme Tablet | Best rugged alternative
Best rugged alternative
Dell Latitude 7230 Rugged Extreme Tablet
View now View at Dell
Show more (3 items)
Best tablet deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy Tab A9 Plus 64GB Wi-Fi 11-inch Tablet (Graphite):  $180 (save $40)
Apple iPad 11-inch 128GB Wi-Fi Retina Tablet (Blue, 2025 Release):  $299 (save $50)
Lenovo Tab M9 32GB Wi-Fi 9-inch Tablet With Folio Case (2023 Release):  $95 (save $70)
Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus 32GB Tablet (2022 Release, Slate):  $55 (save $65)
OnePlus Pad 128GB Wi-Fi 11.61-inch Tablet:  $395 (save $86) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Windows tablets are highly versatile devices. They combine the slim form factor of a tablet with the functionality of a Windows 11 laptop, making them an excellent choice for working professionals and casual users. A good Windows tablet can hop between virtual meetings and tackle work projects without breaking a sweat.There are many options. Asus' ROG Flow Z13 costs $2,100 and has a 2.5K touchscreen that is great for content creators, while the DT Research Rugged Tabletalso $2,100, is best suited for outdoorspeople. To help you find the right fit, we've tested and researched the best Windows tablets currently available.Get more in-depth ZDNET tech coverage: Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.What is the best Windows tablet right now?Each model was evaluated for performance, display quality, hardware configurations, and overall value. After considering these criteria and much deliberation, the Microsoft Surface Pro 11 rose to the top as the best Windows tablet. It has solid hardware, a high-resolution OLED touchscreen, and a long-lasting battery. However, it's not the only option out there. There are plenty of other great tablets that excel in certain situations and are worth your consideration.Also: The best tablets of 2025 (Apple, Samsung, Amazon, and more)
Sort by
All
Best Windows tablet in 2025 Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Microsoft Why we like it: Leading the pack as the best Windows tablet overall is the 2025 Microsoft Surface Pro. The company refined the previous model's design for this generation, making it lighter and sporting rounded corners. The Snapdragon X Plus processor delivers a snappy performance perfect for everyday tasks. It's also flexible enough to switch between laptop and tablet modes seamlessly. Battery life is another highlight. During testing, the tablet ran for a little over 15 hours of video playback. When it comes to sustained use, the Surface Pro's longevity dropped to 10 hours.Review: Microsoft Surface Pro (2025)Who it's for: Microsoft's Surface Pro is perfect for people who want a lightweight tablet that can double as a laptop with the right accessories. The 12-inch Surface Pro Keyboard for Business feels satisfying to type on, housing spring keys and a smooth trackpad. It snaps securely to the bottom of the tablet via magnets. The accessory sits closer to the tablet, so it doesn't leave a gap.Who should look elsewhere: The 12-inch Surface Pro isn't meant for power users. Its Snapdragon X Plus chipset is fine, but it'll struggle under heavy workloads. During testing, ZDNET Editor Kyle Kucharski discovered that the Surface pen will sometimes lag under certain conditions. Additionally, while the tablet isn't super pricey, accessories like the keyboard and pen will drive up the price tag.Microsoft Surface Pro specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus | Display size: 12-inch PixelSense| RAM: 16GB | Storage: 512GB | Battery life: 15 hours | Dimensions: 11.55 x 8.2 x 1.43 inches
Pros
Long-lasting battery
Refined, sleek design
Cons
Accessories inflate price
Microsoft Surface Pro Best Windows tablet overall
Why we like it: Leading the pack as the best Windows tablet overall is the 2025 Microsoft Surface Pro. The company refined the previous model's design for this generation, making it lighter and sporting rounded corners. The Snapdragon X Plus processor delivers a snappy performance perfect for everyday tasks. It's also flexible enough to switch between laptop and tablet modes seamlessly. Battery life is another highlight. During testing, the tablet ran for a little over 15 hours of video playback. When it comes to sustained use, the Surface Pro's longevity dropped to 10 hours.Review: Microsoft Surface Pro (2025)Who it's for: Microsoft's Surface Pro is perfect for people who want a lightweight tablet that can double as a laptop with the right accessories. The 12-inch Surface Pro Keyboard for Business feels satisfying to type on, housing spring keys and a smooth trackpad. It snaps securely to the bottom of the tablet via magnets. The accessory sits closer to the tablet, so it doesn't leave a gap.Who should look elsewhere: The 12-inch Surface Pro isn't meant for power users. Its Snapdragon X Plus chipset is fine, but it'll struggle under heavy workloads. During testing, ZDNET Editor Kyle Kucharski discovered that the Surface pen will sometimes lag under certain conditions. Additionally, while the tablet isn't super pricey, accessories like the keyboard and pen will drive up the price tag.Microsoft Surface Pro specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus | Display size: 12-inch PixelSense| RAM: 16GB | Storage: 512GB | Battery life: 15 hours | Dimensions: 11.55 x 8.2 x 1.43 inches
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at B&H Photo VideoView now at Shop.asus Why we like it: The Asus ROG Flow Z13 is a sleek tablet with surprisingly powerful hardware. It ditches the Intel and Nvidia configuration found in the previous generation and opts for a full AMD build. Under the hood is an AMD Ryzen AI MAX 390 processor, an AMD Radeon 8050S graphics card, and an AMD XDNA NPU for extra performance.User reviews across the internet praise the device for its top-notch hardware. Some have called it a "portable powerhouse." The 13-inch Nebula display is a standout feature, covering the entire DCI-P3 color gamut for vibrant images. Toss in a refresh rate of 180Hz and PANTONE validation, and you've got a touchscreen perfect for content creators.Who it's for: Asus' ROG Flow Z13 is ideal for creative professionals and hobbyists who want a tablet that punches well above its weight class. The Z13 has the specs to handle heavy workloads, like editing high-resolution photographs or designing a website. Digital artists who work with a stylus will appreciate the tablet's flexibility. It comes with a kickstand that lets you work comfortably from various angles.Who should look elsewhere: There are a couple of downsides to the ROG Flow Z13. First off, it's expensive at $2,100. Secondly, it runs hot. A customer review on B&H Photo Video claimed the tablet's internal components reached 90 degrees Celsius, or 194 degrees Fahrenheit. And third, the battery only lasts 10 hours max on a single charge.Asus ROG Flow Z13 (2025) specs: Processor: AMD Ryzen AI MAX 390 | Display size: 13.4-inch 2.5K display | RAM: 32GB | Storage: 1TB | Battery life: 10 hours | Dimensions: 11.81 x 8.03 x 0.51 inches
Pros
Great hardware
Compact
High-quality display
Minimal noise
Cons
Expensive
Asus ROG Flow Z13 Best Windows tablet for content creators
Why we like it: The Asus ROG Flow Z13 is a sleek tablet with surprisingly powerful hardware. It ditches the Intel and Nvidia configuration found in the previous generation and opts for a full AMD build. Under the hood is an AMD Ryzen AI MAX 390 processor, an AMD Radeon 8050S graphics card, and an AMD XDNA NPU for extra performance.User reviews across the internet praise the device for its top-notch hardware. Some have called it a "portable powerhouse." The 13-inch Nebula display is a standout feature, covering the entire DCI-P3 color gamut for vibrant images. Toss in a refresh rate of 180Hz and PANTONE validation, and you've got a touchscreen perfect for content creators.Who it's for: Asus' ROG Flow Z13 is ideal for creative professionals and hobbyists who want a tablet that punches well above its weight class. The Z13 has the specs to handle heavy workloads, like editing high-resolution photographs or designing a website. Digital artists who work with a stylus will appreciate the tablet's flexibility. It comes with a kickstand that lets you work comfortably from various angles.Who should look elsewhere: There are a couple of downsides to the ROG Flow Z13. First off, it's expensive at $2,100. Secondly, it runs hot. A customer review on B&H Photo Video claimed the tablet's internal components reached 90 degrees Celsius, or 194 degrees Fahrenheit. And third, the battery only lasts 10 hours max on a single charge.Asus ROG Flow Z13 (2025) specs: Processor: AMD Ryzen AI MAX 390 | Display size: 13.4-inch 2.5K display | RAM: 32GB | Storage: 1TB | Battery life: 10 hours | Dimensions: 11.81 x 8.03 x 0.51 inches
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at CDW Why we like it: The DT Research Rugged Tablet is an exceptionally tough device. ZDNET Senior Contributing Editor Adrian Kingsley-Hughes ran it through the wringer when he tested the tablet earlier this year. He dropped it on sharp rocks, covered it in mud, and splashed it with water. The Rugged Tablet survived every endurance test with style. The outside of the tablet is made out of a combination of ABS (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene), a polycarbonate polymer, and a magnesium-aluminum alloy. Together, they create a hardy device able to withstand everything thrown at it. It's no slouch in the performance department either. Inside is an Intel Core i5-1335U processor, 8GB of RAM, and "storage options ranging from 512GB to 2TB," which is plenty for "data-intensive tasks." On the front is a 1920 x 1200 LED touchscreen that outputs 1,000 nits of brightness, enough to remain visible under the sun.Review: DT Research Rugged TabletWho it's for: I don't think the average person would get a lot of usage out of the DT Research Rugged Tablet. It's primarily meant for professionals working in harsh conditions or people who love going outdoors. It cannot be understated just how tough this laptop is. Plus, key features like the hot-swappable battery and the ability to read inputs through gloves make it a practical choice for many.Who should look elsewhere: If you just need a lightweight device for emails, notetaking, or streaming movies, you're better off buying a consumer tablet and buying a hardy protective case. The DT Research Rugged Tablet is great at being an outdoorsman's tablet, but it's not user-friendly. On top of that, it's expensive.DT Research Rugged Tablet specs: Processor: Intel Core i7-1355U | Display size: 11.6-inch 1920 x 1200 display | RAM: 8GB | Storage: 512GB | Battery: 3,800 mAh | Dimensions: 12.4 x 8.3 x 0.8 inches
Pros
Rugged design
Good performance
Cons
Expensive
DT Research Rugged Tablet Best rugged Windows laptop
Why we like it: The DT Research Rugged Tablet is an exceptionally tough device. ZDNET Senior Contributing Editor Adrian Kingsley-Hughes ran it through the wringer when he tested the tablet earlier this year. He dropped it on sharp rocks, covered it in mud, and splashed it with water. The Rugged Tablet survived every endurance test with style. The outside of the tablet is made out of a combination of ABS (acrylonitrile butadiene styrene), a polycarbonate polymer, and a magnesium-aluminum alloy. Together, they create a hardy device able to withstand everything thrown at it. It's no slouch in the performance department either. Inside is an Intel Core i5-1335U processor, 8GB of RAM, and "storage options ranging from 512GB to 2TB," which is plenty for "data-intensive tasks." On the front is a 1920 x 1200 LED touchscreen that outputs 1,000 nits of brightness, enough to remain visible under the sun.Review: DT Research Rugged TabletWho it's for: I don't think the average person would get a lot of usage out of the DT Research Rugged Tablet. It's primarily meant for professionals working in harsh conditions or people who love going outdoors. It cannot be understated just how tough this laptop is. Plus, key features like the hot-swappable battery and the ability to read inputs through gloves make it a practical choice for many.Who should look elsewhere: If you just need a lightweight device for emails, notetaking, or streaming movies, you're better off buying a consumer tablet and buying a hardy protective case. The DT Research Rugged Tablet is great at being an outdoorsman's tablet, but it's not user-friendly. On top of that, it's expensive.DT Research Rugged Tablet specs: Processor: Intel Core i7-1355U | Display size: 11.6-inch 1920 x 1200 display | RAM: 8GB | Storage: 512GB | Battery: 3,800 mAh | Dimensions: 12.4 x 8.3 x 0.8 inches
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Best BuyView now at Asus Why we like it: At a glance, the Asus ProArt PZ13 looks identical to the 2025 ROG Flow Z13, but they have different use cases. Where the ROG Flow excels in gaming and content creation, the ProArt PZ13 excels in art, as the name suggests. This device boasts a stunning 3K OLED touchscreen. Color pops out thanks to a combination of Dolby Vision, full DCI-P3 coverage, and HDR True Black support, enabling an ideal environment for creative work. The Creator Hub is a standout feature. It's an app that lets users adjust visual settings and change color spaces on the fly. This single feature provides a level of flexibility that artists will appreciate. Performance is solid, too. Its Snapdragon X Plus chipset can run dozens of tabs, videos, and livestreams running smoothly without a hitch. Adding the super long battery -- over 21 hours on efficiency modes -- and you have a tablet that'll get you through the day.Review: Asus ProArt Z13Who it's for: As stated, this tablet is meant for artists, designers, and other types of creative professionals. The combination of OLED screen and Creator Hub makes it perfect for photo editing, digital illustration, and similar workloads. I also recommend it to users constantly on the go. Its slim 0.35-inch frame and long battery make it perfect for travel.Who should look elsewhere: Overall, the ProArt PZ13 remains a solid tablet in 2025, although I have a few nitpicks. First, the port selection is limited. There are only two USB-C ports and an SD card reader, and there isn't a headphone jack. I also wish Asus had included a stylus with the purchase since the tablet is meant for artists. You have to purchase the pen separately.Asus ProArt Z13 specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus | Display size: 13.3-inch 3K OLED display | RAM: 16GB | Storage: 1TB | Battery life: 21 hours | Dimensions: 11.71 x 7.99 x 0.35 inches
Pros
3K OLED touchscreen
Lightweight
Long-lasting battery
Cons
Limited ports
Asus ProArt PZ13 Best Windows tablet for artists
Why we like it: At a glance, the Asus ProArt PZ13 looks identical to the 2025 ROG Flow Z13, but they have different use cases. Where the ROG Flow excels in gaming and content creation, the ProArt PZ13 excels in art, as the name suggests. This device boasts a stunning 3K OLED touchscreen. Color pops out thanks to a combination of Dolby Vision, full DCI-P3 coverage, and HDR True Black support, enabling an ideal environment for creative work. The Creator Hub is a standout feature. It's an app that lets users adjust visual settings and change color spaces on the fly. This single feature provides a level of flexibility that artists will appreciate. Performance is solid, too. Its Snapdragon X Plus chipset can run dozens of tabs, videos, and livestreams running smoothly without a hitch. Adding the super long battery -- over 21 hours on efficiency modes -- and you have a tablet that'll get you through the day.Review: Asus ProArt Z13Who it's for: As stated, this tablet is meant for artists, designers, and other types of creative professionals. The combination of OLED screen and Creator Hub makes it perfect for photo editing, digital illustration, and similar workloads. I also recommend it to users constantly on the go. Its slim 0.35-inch frame and long battery make it perfect for travel.Who should look elsewhere: Overall, the ProArt PZ13 remains a solid tablet in 2025, although I have a few nitpicks. First, the port selection is limited. There are only two USB-C ports and an SD card reader, and there isn't a headphone jack. I also wish Asus had included a stylus with the purchase since the tablet is meant for artists. You have to purchase the pen separately.Asus ProArt Z13 specs: Processor: Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus | Display size: 13.3-inch 3K OLED display | RAM: 16GB | Storage: 1TB | Battery life: 21 hours | Dimensions: 11.71 x 7.99 x 0.35 inches
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at HPView now at Best Buy Why we like it: I will freely admit that I am cheating a little with the HP OmniBook X Flip 16 because it is a 2-in-1 laptop. It excels so well as a tablet that I had to include it. HP's laptop hits a sweet spot balancing style, functionality, and price. Its 3K OLED touchscreen is vibrant with silky smooth animations thanks to a 120Hz refresh rate. A screen like this makes multitasking a breeze. Under the hood is an Intel Core Ultra 7 chip, Intel Arc graphics card, and 32GB of RAM, delivering reliable performance for most workloads.The laptop can also come with the HP Active Tilt Pen. It's a great stylus that is both accurate and highly responsive, perfect for sketching and notetaking.Review: HP OmniBook X Flip 16Who it's for: I recommend the HP OmniBook X Flip to anyone looking for a work device that doubles as a tablet and laptop, specifically one that performs equally well in both use cases. This model is an excellent fit for people who spend all day writing documents and attending multiple meetings. Its portability and 10-hour battery make it worthwhile for remote workers, too.Who should look elsewhere: It's not a perfect machine, as much as I want it to be. Its midrange hardware struggles under heavy loads. The glossy display can be difficult to see in bright environments, unless you crank up the brightness. And while the pen is great, the base model doesn't include it, so you'll have to pay extra for what, in my opinion, should be part of the base kit.HP OmniBook X Flip 16 specs: Processor: Intel Core Ultra 256V | Display size: 16-inch 2K touchscreen | RAM: 16GB | Storage: 512GB | Battery life: 10 hours | Dimensions: 14.02 x 9.67 x 0.61 inches
HP OmniBook X Flip 16 Best Windows tablet for work
Why we like it: I will freely admit that I am cheating a little with the HP OmniBook X Flip 16 because it is a 2-in-1 laptop. It excels so well as a tablet that I had to include it. HP's laptop hits a sweet spot balancing style, functionality, and price. Its 3K OLED touchscreen is vibrant with silky smooth animations thanks to a 120Hz refresh rate. A screen like this makes multitasking a breeze. Under the hood is an Intel Core Ultra 7 chip, Intel Arc graphics card, and 32GB of RAM, delivering reliable performance for most workloads.The laptop can also come with the HP Active Tilt Pen. It's a great stylus that is both accurate and highly responsive, perfect for sketching and notetaking.Review: HP OmniBook X Flip 16Who it's for: I recommend the HP OmniBook X Flip to anyone looking for a work device that doubles as a tablet and laptop, specifically one that performs equally well in both use cases. This model is an excellent fit for people who spend all day writing documents and attending multiple meetings. Its portability and 10-hour battery make it worthwhile for remote workers, too.Who should look elsewhere: It's not a perfect machine, as much as I want it to be. Its midrange hardware struggles under heavy loads. The glossy display can be difficult to see in bright environments, unless you crank up the brightness. And while the pen is great, the base model doesn't include it, so you'll have to pay extra for what, in my opinion, should be part of the base kit.HP OmniBook X Flip 16 specs: Processor: Intel Core Ultra 256V | Display size: 16-inch 2K touchscreen | RAM: 16GB | Storage: 512GB | Battery life: 10 hours | Dimensions: 14.02 x 9.67 x 0.61 inches
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less What is the best Windows tablet?
Microsoft's Surface Pro 11 stands as the best Windows tablet thanks to its Snapdragon X Plus chipset and long-lasting battery. Below is a list comparing the model's specs to everything else.Best Windows tabletPriceProcessorDisplayMicrosoft Surface Pro 11$887Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus13-inch LCD or OLEDAsus ROG Flow Z13$2,100AMD Ryzen AI Max 39013.4-inch 2.5K IPSDT Research Rugged Tablet$2,095Intel Core i65-1335U11.6-inch LED touchscreenAsus ProArt PZ13$1,200Qualcomm Snapdragon X Plus13-inch 3K AMOLEDHP OmniBook X Flip 16$750Intel Core Ultra 7 256V16-inch 2K IPS touchscreen*MSRP at the time of publication
Show more
Which Windows tablet is right for you?
With numerous specifications, features, and visual designs to consider, it's easy to get overwhelmed when choosing a tablet. The table below provides a brief overview of each recommended model and highlights key features of interest:Choose this Windows laptop...If you want...Microsoft Surface Pro 11The best Windows tablet, with its stunning PixelSense OLED display and next-gen Snapdragon X Plus chipset powering it.Asus ROG Flow Z13The best Windows tablet for content creators. Its powerful hardware configuration can handle a wide range of workloads, from gaming to illustration.DT Research Rugged TabletThe best rugged option. This bulky tablet handles harsh conditions very well, and its touchscreen looks great even in sunlight.Asus ProArt PZ13The best Windows tablet for artists. It boasts a vibrant 3K OLED screen and features that let you tweak its visual output on the fly.HP OmniBook X Flip 16The best Windows tablet for work. This model has the ability to transform into a laptop, which is a handy feature for easy document writing.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing a Windows tablet
When selecting the best Windows tablet, several key factors were considered in our recommendations:Processor: Processors directly determine how fast a laptop can complete tasks,
like launching apps and managing demanding workloads. We prioritized advanced multi-core processors that can easily handle creative applications. Display: Displays are critical to the user experience, especially for photo editing or document reading. We focused on devices with high-quality touchscreens. Additionally, touch responsiveness and screen clarity are key factors ensuring smooth navigation.Design: A tablet's design affects its portability and ease of use. A slim, lightweight form factor is ideal for users on-the-go, while durable materials ensure longevity. Features: Features are essential as they help determine a device's versatility and capability. Stylus support and detachable keyboards make Windows tablets suitable for various tasks. We also considered features like multiple ports and art software. Since highly capable devices tend to be expensive, it's important to assess whether certain features are necessary for your needs or are optional.
Show more
How we test tablets
ZDNET receives a lot of tablets to review, and many of them could've made the list. To separate the best from the rest, we follow the criteria mentioned in the previous question -- which ones have the nicest displays, the best hardware, and more. At first, the tablet is tested casually. We surf the internet, watch videos, download apps, and work on them to get a feel for them. From there, we run more labor-intensive apps and perform benchmark tests to see what the hardware is capable of.Once all the testing is complete, we place the best of the best on the list. Picking the premiere options can be tricky, but sometimes there's a clear winner, like the Surface Pro 11.For more on how we test tablets at ZDNET, check out our full tablet testing methodology.
Show more
Latest news on Lenovo laptopsLike 2024, 2025 has been a quiet year for Windows laptops. There really haven't been any standout releases apart from the new yearly release. I personally would've loved to have seen a follow-up to the Dell XPS 9315 2-in-1 tablet. In 2026, we should see the next Surface Pro tablet from Microsoft. It's currently unknown if there are any plans for a budget version of the Surface Pro. I haven't seen any rumors or online reports for a midrange tablet online yet.Similarly, I don't know of any other company working on a Windows tablet. It seems that laptop manufacturers are content with releasing convertible laptops like the HP OmniBook X Flip X and have those devices fill in that Windows tablet niche. However, nothing is set in stone. Things can always change.FAQs on Windows tablets
What are the best brands for Windows tablets?
Microsoft consistently produces some of the best Windows tablets. The Surface Pro 11, in particular, is a significant advancement for the series.
Much of this improvement is due to the Snapdragon X Plus chipset, which has been a key factor in the tablet's performance boost. Qualcomm's SoC has notably impacted consumer technology, and we expect it to continue making waves on Windows tablets.Asus and Lenovo are also strong contenders in the tablet market. Asus is known for equipping its devices with powerful central processing unit (CPU) and graphics processing unit (GPU) combinations. Lenovo is recognized for its innovation, often pushing the boundaries of the traditional tablet. While not every Lenovo device is a hit, models like the ThinkPad X1 Fold stand out as strong recommendations.
Show more
Can a Windows tablet replace a laptop?
Windows tablets can be an excellent alternative to laptops, offering better versatility and flexibility. Unlike laptops, tablet keyboards are detachable and can be swapped for a stylus for added functionality. If portability is a priority, a tablet might be the better option.If power is your priority, we suggest you go with a laptop, as they're better for tough workloads and typically have larger storage drives. The two tablets with a 1TB solid-state drive (SSD) on this list are the most expensive. But with laptops, you can find models housing a 1TB SSD for a much lower price.
Show more
Can you do everything on a tablet that you can do on a laptop?
Tablets are capable of handling many tasks, but they're limited. While tablets and laptops are portable and can assist with work, the former offers a more user-friendly experience. The touchscreen interface is typically easier to navigate than a touchpad and keyboard, especially since many users nowadays are more familiar with smartphones. Tablets also tend to be better suited for creative tasks.Laptops typically have more powerful hardware, which allows them to run more demanding software. Thanks to their size, they also generally have larger screens and more ports. Tablets are designed to be slim and lightweight, which limits the number of ports they can accommodate.
Show more
Which tablet is best, Android or Windows?
That depends on what you need from a tablet. Android tablets are typically cheaper and more lightweight. If you just want a casual device for browsing the internet or streaming movies, an Android model will do the job. Plus, there are a ton of affordable options on the internet. For example, you can buy an Amazon Fire HD 8 Plus for a little over $100.Also: The best cheap tablets: Expert testedIf you need something that can double as a laptop, you're better off purchasing a Windows tablet. These types of machines are better suited for work. Not only do they support Windows apps that your job may rely on, but they also have more supportive hardware. Every entry on this list houses processors normally found on laptops, whereas Android tablets typically have smartphone-like chipsets. Android models can offer good performance and workflow, but they're not on the same level as a Windows machine.
Show more
When is the best time to get a Windows tablet?
Tablets frequently go on sale throughout the year, but you can find deeper discounts on Black Friday and Cyber Monday -- two of the best days to purchase a tablet.Many brands get in on holiday sales throughout the year. Apple slashes the price tag on iPads, Lenovo does the same with Tab models, and Microsoft discounts its Surface Pro tablets. You'll be able to find these deals across multiple online retailers like Amazon, Best Buy, and Walmart.
Show more
Latest updatesFor the September 2025 update, I added the 2025 Asus ROG Flow Z13, DT Research Rugged Tablet, and HP OmniBook X Flip 16 after much deliberation. I also updated each of the entries by introducing more pertinent information.Other Windows tablets  Show less
View now at Asus Asus' Zenbook Duo 14 is a content creator's dream machine, consisting of two 14-inch OLED touchscreens sitting side by side.
Asus Zenbook Duo 14 Best dual-screen tablet
Asus' Zenbook Duo 14 is a content creator's dream machine, consisting of two 14-inch OLED touchscreens sitting side by side.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Lenovo Lenovo's ThinkPad X12 Gen 2 is a solid alternative to the HP OmniBook X Flip 16. Customer reviews praise the device's excellent build, high-resolution display, and great keyboard accessory.
Lenovo ThinkPad X12 Gen 2 Detachable Best Windows tablet for work alternative
Lenovo's ThinkPad X12 Gen 2 is a solid alternative to the HP OmniBook X Flip 16. Customer reviews praise the device's excellent build, high-resolution display, and great keyboard accessory.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Dell If you're taking your tablet into harsh outdoor conditions, check out the Dell Latitude 7230 Rugged Extreme Tablet. The lightweight 12-inch device works even if you're wearing gloves, and its screen is viewable in direct sunlight at 1,200 nits.
Dell Latitude 7230 Rugged Extreme Tablet Best rugged alternative
If you're taking your tablet into harsh outdoor conditions, check out the Dell Latitude 7230 Rugged Extreme Tablet. The lightweight 12-inch device works even if you're wearing gloves, and its screen is viewable in direct sunlight at 1,200 nits.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less Looking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.
ZDNET’s Tablet Guide
Tablet Roundups
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Tablets Reviewed & Compared
iPad Pro 2024 review
Samsung Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra review
Amazon Kindle Scribe review
Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra review
Onyx Boox Tab Ultra review
Lenovo Tab P12 Pro review
iPad 2022 vs iPad Air 2022
iPad 2021 vs Remarkable 2
Galaxy Tab S9 Ultra vs Apple iPad Pro
Amazon Fire Tablet vs Apple iPad
Kindle Scribe vs Remarkable 2 tablet
Google Pixel Tablet vs Apple iPad 2022
Tablets Explained
How to add books to an old Kindle
How to take notes on your iPad with an Apple Pencil 3
How to turn an old Fire Tablet into an Echo Show
How to use stage manager on your iPad
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use