October Prime Day Is Still 2 Weeks Off, but These 40+ Deals Are Here Today
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Article updated on Sep 23, 2025
Deals
October Prime Day Is Still 2 Weeks Off, but These 40+ Deals Are Here Today
Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days are back Oct. 7 and 8, but you don't have to wait to score on smart home devices, TVs, laptops and more.
By
Adrian Marlow
,
Aashna Gheewalla
41 curated items on sale
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert deal-hunting staff showcases the best price drops and discounts from reputable sellers daily. If you make a purchase using our links, CNET may earn a commission.
From Halloween to Thanksgiving to Christmas, the busy season can have you stretched for time and money. You don't have to wait until Black Friday to do some early shopping because you can find great prices during Amazon's October Prime Big Deal Days event. This year it will be held on Oct. 7 and 8. While you still have a couple of weeks until the sale's official kickoff, there are already hot deals you can grab.I'm putting my years of CNET deal-hunting experience to work for you. I monitor Amazon and its competitors around the clock to find the absolute best Prime Day deals so you don't have to. This is your central hub for savings on tech, home essentials and more.Find your Amazon dealsYou can also see great Prime Day picks from our sibling brands: Mashable, PCMag, ZDNET and Lifehacker.Hottest early Prime Big Deal Days findsHere are some eye-catching savings you won't want to miss.
Apple Watch Series 10: $329 CNET experts tested Apple's Apple Watch Series 10, and although it's no longer the latest wearable, it's still the top smartwatch of 2025. Grab it for just $329 right now. Lexy Savvides, CNET's former editor at large, noted, "In many ways, the Series 10 feels like an Apple Watch Ultra lite, thanks to a bigger screen and a suite of new health and fitness tools." This GPS model has a 42mm Always-On Retina display and all the top fitness and connection features you'd expect from our highest-recommended model.
Details
Save $119
$417 at Amazon
$349 at Walmart
$349 at Best Buy
Close
Apple M3 iPad Air (11-inch): $449 Apple's M3 iPad Air is lightning fast and it comes with a stunning 11-inch Liquid Retina display and superfast Wi-Fi 6E connectivity. It's also down by $150, a record low price.
Details
Save $150
$449 at Amazon
Close
Apple AirPods 4: $169 The latest AirPods with active noise cancellation are dust-, sweat- and water-resistant, perfect for all your summer adventures. Even the spatial audio works with compatible content in supported apps. The non-ANC model is also at a discount, for $116.
Details
Save $10
$301 at Amazon
$179 at Apple
$180 at Best Buy
Close
Logitech Blue Yeti Mic: $104 If you're hoping to up your audio game, whether that's for recording a podcast, music, or videos, you'll definitely need a good microphone. This deal reduces the Logitech Blue Yeti model by $36 on the black or midnight blue colors. Some other colors are also discounted, but not by as much. The Yeti works just as well for Zoom meetings.
Details
save $36
$104 at Amazon
Close
Samsung Galaxy A9 Plus 11-inch tablet: $159 The Samsung Galaxy A9 Plus is down to just $159 right now. For this price you'll get 64GB of storage and 4GB of RAM, as well as an 11-inch display. Powered by Android and a Qualcomm Snapdragon 695 processor which works great for basic online tasks and video streaming.
This tablet's regular price is $220. But right now, Amazon is slashing another $60 off that price.
Details
Save $61
$159 at Amazon
Close
Arlo Video Doorbell 2k: $60
The Arlo Video Doorbell 2k is slashed down from $130 to just $60 at Amazon right now. That's a massive 54% discount on this handy little smart home security device that gives you the ability to watch, listen, and talk to anyone who graces your doorstep.
Details
Save $70
$60 at Amazon
Close
Best early Prime Day headphone and audio dealsThere are sure to be tons of incredible deals on speakers, headphones and earbuds this Prime Day, making it a great time to upgrade. Here are a few we've spotted already.
Anker Soundcore Boom 2 Bluetooth speaker: $120 The Anker Soundcore Boom 2 is an excellent value according to our experts. It's compact, IPX7 waterproof and has an impressive sound. It also had cool LED lighting and a solid battery life. It even won an Editors' Choice Award and is our favorite Bluetooth speaker overall for 2025.
Details
Save $20
$120 at Amazon
Close
Beats Pill: $120 Thanks to its sleek design, the Beats Pill has landed on our list of the best Bluetooth speakers of 2025. Our reviewer was impressed by its sound quality -- particularly the bass definition thanks to its new updated woofer system -- as well as the relative volume for its size. It also supports lossless audio with a wired USB-C connection, and delivers an IP67 weather-resistance rating so you can take it just about anywhere.
Details
Save $30
$120 at Amazon
Close
Soundcore P40i by Anker: $48 These super-budget-friendly earbuds are 40% off right now. Get big bass, up to 60 hours of playtime, adaptive noise cancellation and more -- all for $48. These are also our top pick for the best cheap wireless earbuds.
Details
Save $32
$48 at Amazon
Close
Apple AirPods Pro (2nd gen): $199 The AirPods Pro 2 are a fan favorite for good reason. They sport excellent sound quality, with active noise canceling, an adaptive transparency mode and spatial audio -- all powered by Apple's H2 chip.
Details
Save: $50
$199 at Amazon
$199 at B&H Photo-Video
$250 at Best Buy
Close
Beats Studio Pro wireless headphones: $250 Noise-canceling, lossless audio, 40 hours of battery life and an array of stylish colors make the Beats Studio Pro very desirable headphones. At $100 off, it's an even
Details
Save $100
$249 at Amazon
Close
More early Prime Day headphone and audio deals: Samsung Galaxy Buds 3 Pro earbuds: $190 (save $60). These comfortable Galaxy earbuds offer adaptive noise canceling with Galaxy AI and translate foreign languages in real time.Beats Solo 4: $150 (save $50). Slick design, 50 hours of battery life and $50 in savings make this a deal not to skip.JBL Tune 510BT headphones: $30 (save $10). Plus get 90 days of free Amazon Music with these headphones. Anker Soundcore 2 portable speaker: $30 (save $15). This compact little speaker is affordable and great for travel, especially at $15 off. Best early Prime Day laptop, monitor and computer dealsI've found laptop and tablet bargains so you can get exactly what you need most at a great price.
Apple MacBook Air M4 (13-inch): $799 The M4 MacBook Air is the latest model in Apple's lightweight lineup and our overall favorite laptop on the market right now. The basic model comes with 16GB of RAM and 256GB of storage, and there are plenty of more advanced configurations also on sale -- including the 15-inch model for people who prefer a larger display.
Details
Save $200
$799 at Amazon
$999 at Apple
$799 at Best Buy
Close
Samsung Galaxy Book 5 Pro: $1,250 This model has a massive and impressive 16-inch AMOLED touchscreen with 3K resolution. Plus, it comes equipped with 16GB of RAM, 1TB SSD storage and Dolby Atmos sound, along with Microsoft 360 Copilot and support for AI features. This is an incredible machine if you need a powerhouse.
Details
Save $400
$1,250 at Best Buy
Close
Apple M4 Mac Mini: $499 Apple's smallest computer is also one of CNET's picks for the best desktop computers of 2025. Clip the on-page coupon for the full discount.
Details
Save $100
$499 at Amazon
Close
HP Envy 17-laptop: $1,300 Get a powerful Intel Core i5-1334U processor, Windows 11 Home, 8GB of memory and 256GB of SSD storage at a $600 discount.
Details
Save $600
$1,300 at HP
Close
More early Prime Day laptop, monitor and computer deals: LG 45GX950A-B 45-inch Ultragear gaming monitor: $1,697 (save $303). This OLED monitor allows you to see everything clearly so you don't miss a beat of your game. HP Victus: $814 (save $86). This budget-friendly gaming laptop has a 144Hz refresh rate, Nvidia GeForce RTX 4050 graphics card, 16GB of RAM and 512GB of storage for a smooth and responsive gaming experience.Samsung Viewfinity S65UA ultrawide monitor: $481 (save $119). This curved monitor gives you an immersive, distraction free experience. Razr Viper V2 Pro wireless gaming mouse: $63 (save $36). A sleek, powerful, and lightweight gaming monitor with a fat 37% discount.Best early TV and streaming Prime Day deals Our shopping experts have found tons of TV deals this Prime Day. Here are some highlights.
Anker Nebula Capsule 3 GTV: $400 This compact Nebula projector allows you to enjoy shows and movies on a massive screen practically anywhere. It's roughly the size of a 16-ounce can, so it can be easily carried in your backpack. However, it still delivers a maximum screen size of up to 120 inches. The device also has 1080p HD resolution and 200 lumens of brightness, and a built-in battery for up to 2.5 hours of playback on a single charge.
Details
Save $130
$380 at Amazon
Close
LG 65-inch OLED evo: $2,800 Our reviewer Ty Pendlebury rated this model the brightest OLED in 2025 in his roundup of the best TVs, calling it a massive improvement over the previous model. He writes, "The G5 has better color than the company's own C5, and it's a lot better for gaming, too."
Details
Save $600
$2,800 at Amazon
Close
Roku Streaming Stick Plus: $29 One device to rule them all, the Roku Streaming Stick Plus brings 4K picture quality and access to all your favorite apps in a compact little device. You can even take it with you when you travel.
Details
Save $11
$29 at Amazon
Close
More early Prime Day TV deals: TCL 55-inch Class QM7K Series QLED Google TV: $618 (save $80). This Google TV-powered TV combines QLED and OLED techniques to improve blacklighting precision, so blacks stay deep while colors pop.Insignia 65-inch class F50 series Smart HD fire TV: $300 (save $150). Take streaming to a new level with over 1 million free movies and TV shows. Hisense 75-Inch Class QLED 4K S7N CanvasTV: $1,600 (save $900). A beautiful art piece and a QLED TV, two in one. Best early smart home Prime Day dealsWe've gathered top smart home and networking deals, including some savings on Amazon devices.
Kasa Outdoor smart plug: $14
The Kasa outdoor smart plug is our favorite outdoor smart plug. It's simple to install and has two outlets that can be controlled separately via the Kasa app. And it's down to $14 right now.
Details
Save $3
$14 at Amazon
Close
TP-Link Tapo A19 Wi-Fi smart LED bulbs (four-pack): $21 With 1,100 lumens of brightness and an array of colors, these smart bulbs can brighten up any space in your home. You can control them with the Tapo app or via voice control with Alexa, Siri or Google Assistant to turn them on or off or change the colors.
Details
Save $9
$21 at Amazon
Close
More early smart home and networking Prime Day deals:  Shark AI robot vacuum: $300 (save $350). This self-empyting bagless vacuum maps and cleans your home for you so you can sit back and relax.Govee RGBIC floor lamp: $70 (save $30). Be sure to clip the on-page coupon for the full discount. Kasa smart plug HS103P2 (2-pack): $15 (save $4). Save electricity by using these smart plugs at every outlet.Best early Prime Day home and kitchen discountsScore the top Prime Day deals on everything from kitchen appliances to home essentials.
Fullstar Original Pro Chopper: $27 Make meal prep fast and easy with this 4-in-1 vegetable chopper and spiralizer. You get fine dice, medium dice, ribbon dicer and spiral blade. Clip the $3 off on-page coupon to save the full amount.
Details
Save $23
$27 at Amazon
Close
Alpha Grillers digital meat thermometer: $14 This digital thermometer makes it easy to check the temperature of your food while you're cooking. It can be used for grilling, baking and more to make sure that each dish is being heated to the right temperature.
Details
Save $6
$14 at Amazon
Close
Cuisinart Espresso Bar espresso machine: $300 This machine has 20 bars of pressure. No more stopping by the coffee shop every morning. It even has a cold extraction feature for iced beverages.
Details
Save $80
$300 at Amazon
Close
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group!
Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
Sign Up
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to receive recurring marketing messages at the phone number provided. Consent is not a condition of purchase. Reply STOP to unsubscribe. Msg & data rates may apply. View our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. More early Prime Day home and kitchen deals: Lodge 12-inch cast iron skillet: $30 (save $10). Lodge has been making some of the best cast iron cookware on the market for more than 100 years.Ninja Nutri-Blender Pro personal blender: $80 (save $20). Made with Auto-iQ technology for timed intelligent blending. Chefman Countertop microwave oven: $70 (save $30). This microwave isn't huge but still has a high power of 700W. When do Prime Deal Days deals begin?Many Amazon Prime Day deals haven't kicked off yet, but there are still some early discounts to be had. This year, October Prime Deal Days are scheduled to run Oct. 7 and 8. Although we're still three weeks away, there are already deals you can start shopping, like those above. Do I have to be an Amazon Prime member to shop Prime Day?In short, no, you don't have to be a Prime member to benefit from Prime Big Deal Days. However, in the past there were quite a few deals that were exclusive to Prime members. If you've always wanted the benefits of Prime but haven't made the jump, consider this your excuse. Subscribing now could lead to significant savings as tariffs are expected to raise prices on a lot of goods. A CNET survey found that 64% of shoppers have bought or planned to buy tech products to avoid price increases or shortages. In fact, 16% of shoppers say they used the July Prime Day to start their holiday shopping ahead of the holiday season, according to a new RetailMeNot survey. (Disclosure: RetailMeNot is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.)Read more: How to Sign Up for a Prime MembershipPrevious Amazon Prime Day datesSince Amazon launched its first Prime Day sale in 2015, the company has scheduled the event for around the same time of year. Outside of a couple of recent years, Amazon has traditionally kicked off its main sale event around the middle two weeks of July and its October sale in the second week of October. Here are the previous Amazon Prime Day dates:Prime Day 2015: July 15Prime Day 2016: July 12Prime Day 2017: July 11 to 12Prime Day 2018: July 16 to 17Prime Day 2019: July 15 to 16Prime Day 2020: Oct. 13 to 14Prime Day 2021: June 21 to 22Prime Day 2022: July 12 to 13Prime Early Access Sale 2022: Oct. 11 to 12Prime Day 2023: July 11 to 12Prime Big Deal Days 2023: Oct. 10 to 11Prime Day 2024: July 16 to 17Prime Big Deal Days 2024: Oct. 8 to 9Big Spring Sale 2025: March 20 to 25Prime Day 2025: July 8 to 11Will tariffs affect this year's Prime Day deals?Tariffs are top of mind for most Americans and it could affect this year's Prime Day event. Prices on items like electronics could very well increase, with companies like Apple trying to avoid tariffs by moving manufacturing operations elsewhere. The tariffs were paused earlier this month, but only until Wednesday, right after Prime Day began. What is Prime Day?Amazon began the annual Prime Day tradition in 2015. Ever since, bargain hunters have eagerly awaited its return every summer. The main Prime Day sale event has historically taken place in July. Amazon often has other sales throughout the year, including this second Prime Day-like sale in October and the Big Spring Sale in March.This year's October Prime Big Deals Day is almost here. We'll be covering all the essentials, including everything from signing up for Amazon Prime and returning Prime Day purchases to getting Prime Day deals free and using extra Prime perks.How we choose dealsCNET has a team of shopping experts and deal hunters who have operated across major sales events for many years, making sure you understand when a deal is worth taking advantage of or when it's worth skipping. Whether it's for Black Friday, Memorial Day, the Fourth of July or Prime Day, we have the expertise to make sure you get the best deal possible. To do this, we look for real discounts, quality reviews and remaining sale time when choosing an offer to show you. Real discounts mean real discounts. We look at the price history for that product to make sure no manufacturers are inflating prices to make the discount seem more substantial than it is.Quality reviews are equally important for any product, but particularly for deeply discounted items. If it breaks the first time you use it, the discount isn't really worthwhile.Remaining sale time is a huge part of our vetting process. If a deal seems like it will only be around for a short while or will only be available for the remaining stock, we'll let you know in advance, so you don't return later only to be disappointed. We are also considering the rising costs associated with tariffs to help you find items worth buying now.
How to keep up with the best Prime Day sales
There are a lot of ways to ensure you're getting the latest scoop on Prime Day deals. The CNET Deals team covers all the best price drops, discounts and deals every day from across the web, highlighting the best offers so you can nab a solid deal. We'll be keeping an eye on the latest offers and sharing the promotions you need to hear about, and there are plenty of ways to hear from us.
One option is to bookmark CNET.com/deals to check out our latest coverage. You can also follow @CNETDeals on X to see everything we publish or sign up for our CNET Deals newsletter for a daily digest of deals delivered to your inbox. Another great option is to sign up for CNET Deals text alerts for curated deals during major shopping events. Remember to install our CNET Shopping browser extension to help ensure that purchases you make all year round will be at the lowest price available.
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
+17 More
See all photos
Computing Guides
Laptops
Best Laptop
Best Chromebook
Best Budget Laptop
Best Cheap Gaming Laptop
Best 2-in-1 Laptop
Best Windows Laptop
Best Macbook
Best Gaming Laptop
Best Macbook Deals
Desktops & Monitors
Best Desktop PC
Best Gaming PC
Best Monitor Under 200
Best Desktop Deals
Best Monitors
M2 Mac Mini Review
Computer Accessories
Best PC Speakers
Best Printer
Best External Hard Drive SSD
Best USB C Hub Docking Station
Best Keyboard
Best Webcams
Best Mouse
Best Laptop Backpack
Photography
Best Camera to Buy
Best Vlogging Camera
Best Tripod
Best Waterproof Camera
Best Action Camera
Best Camera Bag and Backpack
Best Drone
Tablets & E-Readers
Best E-Ink Tablets
Best iPad Deals
Best iPad
Best E-Reader
Best Tablet
Best Android Tablet
3D Printers
Best 3D Printer
Best Budget 3D Printer
Best 3D Printing Filament
Best 3D Printer Deals
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.