oauth 2.0 - How to configure ACLs with SASL_SSL OAUTHBEARER in Apache Kafka (KRaft mode, multi-node setup)? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
How to configure ACLs with SASL_SSL OAUTHBEARER in Apache Kafka (KRaft mode, multi-node setup)?
Ask Question
Asked
yesterday
Modified
yesterday
Viewed
18 times
0
I am trying to secure an Apache Kafka cluster running in KRaft mode using SASL_SSL with OAUTHBEARER authentication and enforce ACLs.
I have a multi-node setup - controller and broker run on different ec2 instances.
Despite multiple configuration attempts, I am either getting token retrieval errors or ACLs do not enforce authentication correctly.
Environment
Kafka version: 3.8.1
Deployment: Multi-node (Controller and Broker on separate EC2 instances)
OS / Environment: Amazon Linux
Steps Taken & Scenarios
To troubleshoot, I tried progressively different configurations to isolate where the issue lies.
Here are the four scenarios I tested and the results I observed:
Scenario 1: Controller & Broker both use SASL_SSL OAUTHBEARER
Result: Controller fails to start
Error: An internal error occurred while retrieving token from callback handler
Scenario 2: Controller & Broker both use SASL_PLAINTEXT
Result: Cluster works fine
ACLs: Work as expected (username/password authentication)
Scenario 3: Controller uses SASL_SSL (PLAIN) & Broker uses SASL_SSL (OAUTHBEARER)
Result: Controller starts fine, but Broker shows error
Error: An internal error occurred while retrieving token from callback handler
Scenario 4: Controller uses PLAINTEXT & Broker uses SASL_SSL (OAUTHBEARER)
Result: Cluster runs successfully
Issue: ACLs do not seem to enforce authentication — all access is granted regardless of credentials
Is it possible to configure ACLs in Apache Kafka (KRaft mode, multi-node setup) with SASL_SSL OAUTHBEARER?
apache-kafkaoauth-2.0aclsaslapache-kafka-security
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked yesterday
Aishwarya SahaAishwarya Saha
1
New contributor
Aishwarya Saha is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
Add a comment
|
Related questions
1
Running Kafka in KRaft mode with SASL_PLAINTEXT + SCRAM-SHA-256
1
Why do I need to specify all the brokers in Kafka with Kraft in a 3 node broker/controller cluster?
0
Exception while loading Zookeeper JAAS login context and Could not find a 'KafkaServer' or 'sasl_plaintext.KafkaServer' entry in the JAAS
Related questions
1
Running Kafka in KRaft mode with SASL_PLAINTEXT + SCRAM-SHA-256
1
Why do I need to specify all the brokers in Kafka with Kraft in a 3 node broker/controller cluster?
0
Exception while loading Zookeeper JAAS login context and Could not find a 'KafkaServer' or 'sasl_plaintext.KafkaServer' entry in the JAAS
1
Kafka: org.apache.zookeeper.KeeperException$NoNodeException while creating topic on multi server setup
Load 1 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
apache-kafkaoauth-2.0aclsaslapache-kafka-security
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Drawing vertical and horizontal vectors along a Bézier curve (without local rotation)
Is there vocabulary for critical points of multivariable functions at which the second partial derivative test fails?
What are possible options to disembark for health issues if your airline keeps you on board at the tarmac for several hours?
Is the yeast used in chicken breading yeast or yeast extract
Why is the first homology group of the knot complement is a finitely generated abelian group?
Does the maximum amount of energy a spring can store depend on spring geometry?
Implementation of a kd-tree header-only library
Pressure treated or regular wood for temporary ramp?
Is it possible to follow the Buddha’s core teachings while rejecting supernatural beliefs like gods, ghosts, reincarnation, heaven and hell realms?
What plausible technologies would be needed to have a reasonably-prosperous information-age society minimally reliant on metals?
Research Experience for Math PhD
Lewis & Short disagrees with Wiktionary and Latin Lexicon on vowel length?
Word choice errors in submitted thesis
How to design the input resistance of a voltage regulator?
How does energy abundance affect materials science?
Is there a substance that passes through gasses, but reacts violently (explosive) when confronted with solid matter?
How can I create the following table with materials vertically centering
Why does make's `dir` function add additional directories?
Where can a French citizen with Russian visa legally cross by bike/foot/car from China into Russia at a border point as close as possible to Dongning?
Maximizing profit given a PMF
What is the legal ramification, if any, of this traffic sign in Sofia, Bulgaria?
New larger artificial satellite created from natural gravity and existing space debris
Hypernym for different publication types and different outlets in which they are published
Ordinary insertion sort vs. straight insertion sort in Java (benchmark)
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.17.34093