UK arrests 'Scattered Spider' teens linked to Transport for London hack
News
Featured
Latest
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
LastPass: Fake password managers infect Mac users with malware
Police dismantles crypto fraud ring linked to €100 million in losses
5 ways to streamline Identity Governance with this free tool
SolarWinds releases third patch to fix Web Help Desk RCE bug
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityUK arrests 'Scattered Spider' teens linked to Transport for London hack
UK arrests 'Scattered Spider' teens linked to Transport for London hack
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 18, 2025
10:37 AM
0
Two teenagers, believed to be linked to the August 2024 cyberattack on Transport for London, have been arrested in the United Kingdom.
Believed to be members of the notorious Scattered Spider hacking collective, 18-year-old Owen Flowers from Walsall and 19-year-old Thalha Jubair from East London are scheduled to appear at Westminster Magistrates Court today.
Flowers was previously arrested for his alleged involvement in the TfL attack in September 2024, but was released on bail after being questioned by officers of the UK National Crime Agency.
Since then, NCA investigators have found additional evidence potentially linking Flowers to attacks against U.S. healthcare companies.
The two suspects are being prosecuted for computer misuse and fraud-related charges linked to an investigation into the breach of London's public transportation agency. Additionally, Flowers faces charges for conspiring to attack the networks of SSM Health Care Corporation and Sutter Health in the United States.
"This attack caused significant disruption and millions in losses to TfL, part of the UK's critical national infrastructure," said Deputy Director Paul Foster, the head of the NCA's National Cyber Crime Unit. "Earlier this year, the NCA warned of an increase in the threat from cyber criminals based in the UK and other English-speaking countries, of which Scattered Spider is a clear example."
Links to at least 120 network breaches
The U.S. Department of Justice has also charged Thalha Jubair today with conspiracy to commit computer fraud, money laundering, and wire fraud. These charges relate to at least 120 network breaches, including attacks on critical infrastructure entities and U.S. Courts, as well as extortion attacks worldwide. The incidents occurred between May 2022 and September 2025, impacting at least 47 U.S. organizations.
"These malicious attacks caused widespread disruption to U.S. businesses and organizations, including critical infrastructure and the federal court system, highlighting the significant and growing threat posed by brazen cybercriminals," the Justice Department said.
The complaint, filed in the District of New Jersey and unsealed today, alleges that victims have paid Jubair and his accomplices at least $115,000,000 in ransom payments.
"Collectively, victims paid more than $115 million to Jubair and his associates in efforts to recover their data and prevent its disclosure. Portions of the ransom payments from at least five victims were sent to wallets on a server controlled by Jubair," the Justice Department added.
"In July 2024, while law enforcement was seizing that server — including successfully seizing cryptocurrency worth approximately $36 million at the time of the seizure — Jubair transferred a portion of cryptocurrency that originated from one of the victims, worth approximately $8.4 million at the time, to another wallet."
The Transport for London cyberattack
TfL disclosed the August 2024 cyberattack on September 2, 2024, stating that it had not found evidence that any customer data was compromised in the breach.
While the attack did not affect London's transportation services, it did disrupt internal systems and online services, as well as TfL's ability to process refunds. In a subsequent update, TfL revealed that customer data, including names, contact details, and addresses, had actually been compromised during the incident.
TfL provides transportation services to over 8.4 million Londoners through its surface, underground, and Crossrail transport systems, jointly managed with the UK's Department for Transport.
In May 2023, TfL was the victim of another security breach after the Clop ransomware gang stole data belonging to over 13,000 customers from one of its suppliers' MOVEit Managed File Transfer (MFT) servers.
The NCA arrested four other suspected members of the Scattered Spider cybercrime collective in July, believed to be involved in cyberattacks targeting major retailers in the country, including Marks & Spencer, Harrods, and Co-op.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
ShinyHunters claims 1.5 billion Salesforce records stolen in Drift hacksFBI warns of UNC6040, UNC6395 hackers stealing Salesforce dataJaguar Land Rover extends shutdown after cyberattack by another weekGoogle confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portalJaguar Land Rover confirms data theft after recent cyberattack
NCA
Scattered Spider
Transport for London
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Canada dismantles TradeOgre exchange, seizes $40 million in crypto
Sponsor Posts
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT