powershell - Gather all current apps running for AppLocker - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Gather all current apps running for AppLocker
Ask Question
Asked
4 days ago
Modified
4 days ago
Viewed
22 times
0
I am looking for an effecient way to use AppLocker to lock down some PC's as basic Kiosks. We need some as kiosks, more or less, but the Multi-app and Single -App kiosks seem to be a lot more hassle than they are worth.
Is there a way to gather a list of apps that are running one a basic user setup, so that I can export it to XML for Intune deployment, or at least some way to simplify the process? I need to allow a few security apps to run as well as Edge, which I will lock down significantly.
If I can add clarifying info please let me know.
I tried using some Powershell scripting but as I am new to that, it isn't going well.
Get-Process | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Path | Sort-Object -Unique
Then:
Get-Process | Where-Object { $_.Path } | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Path | Sort-Object -Unique | Out-File "C:\AllowedApps.txt"
And it fails on this:
New-AppLockerPolicy -FileInformation "C:\AllowedApps.txt" -RuleType Executable -User Everyone -OutputFile "C:\AppLockerPolicy.xml"
powershellintuneapplocker
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 18 at 4:17
Billy ReynoldsBilly Reynolds
1
New contributor
Billy Reynolds is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
Add a comment
|
Related questions
239
Display all environment variables from a running PowerShell script
242
Powershell equivalent of bash ampersand (&) for forking/running background processes
1
How to Create Deny rules for Applocker using Powershell
Related questions
239
Display all environment variables from a running PowerShell script
242
Powershell equivalent of bash ampersand (&) for forking/running background processes
1
How to Create Deny rules for Applocker using Powershell
1
Windows AppLocker Path Wildcards for Files and Folders
0
Create App Locker rules/policy for all files in a folder using PowerShell
65
Get file version and assembly version of DLL files in the current directory and all sub directories
1
Powershell - gather all .psd files in the same directory
148
PowerShell Script to Find and Replace for all Files with a Specific Extension
0
Uninstall all Python versions via Intune and install only the latest version
0
Powershell. Running tasks in parallel. Waiting for all
Load 7 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
powershellintuneapplocker
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Hot Network Questions
Is vowel length phonemic in General American?
Map all possible choices from a set of functions onto a list of arguments
How do I Shove in 5e 2014, specifically?
Target a player vs hexproof
Time is to "eternal" as space is to what?
Does "a man can do what he wants, but not want what he wants" have a logical problem?
(LuaLaTeX) Issue with Cyrillic and Japanese Fonts Conflict
Orthogonal Center (clockwise)
Single-line initialization of array allocated by malloc()
Understanding the Relationship Between Mean Difference and p-value in a Paired t-Test
What is a numerically practical and safe measure of dispersion of a data set?
Pure buttons in the modal logic of forcing
What is the probability that a random tetrahedron inside a sphere is intersected by the sphere's vertical axis?
How do I make the jump FROM the wooden block in Anouki Village?
Tooth cavities in 4 year old kid
How does Steam Cloud work for refunded games?
I need a reason for artillery to still be used despite suboptimal conditions and terrain
Movie with an alien in disguise as a human boy. Fights a bad alien
What is the order type of the hyperwebster?
What insurance options, if any, exist to allow an individual to transport valuable items owned by others with minimal liability?
Why would you find "be clutch" useful or not and is there another slang/informal phrase with a similar meaning?
Can Slashing Grace be used with natural attacks?
Does the US Constitution's Supremacy Clause make California's new laws regulating the conduct of federal agents (e.g. "No Secret Police Act") moot?
Alien invasion using plant soporific to render population unconscious, ruined by immune man
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-bash
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.22.34261