Jimmy Kimmel Off Air: Host Meeting With Disney Execs Tonight To Discuss Show Future—Report - Newsweek
U.S.WorldScienceHealthLifeRankingsOpinionEntertainmentFact CheckMy TurnEducation
EventsSportsPodcastsBetter PlanetBetter WorkplacesVaultMightierAutosNewslettersUnconventionalVantageExpertsVoices
Subscribe
Login
×
Subscribe
Login
U.S.WorldScienceHealthLifeRankingsOpinionEntertainmentFact CheckMy TurnEducation EventsSportsPodcastsBetter PlanetBetter WorkplacesVaultMightierAutosNewslettersUnconventionalVantageExpertsVoices
News
Jimmy Kimmel
Charlie kirk
FCC
Donald Trump
ABC
Sinclair
Live Blog
Breaking News
LIVE
Jimmy Kimmel Off Air: Host Meeting With Disney Execs Tonight To Discuss Show Future—Report
Sep 18, 2025 at 4:22 AM EDT
Live
Sep 18, 2025 at 8:19 PM EDT
Jimmy Kimmel Off Air: Host Meeting With Disney Execs Tonight To Discuss Show Future—Report
By
Shane Croucher is a Breaking News Editor based in London, UK. He has previously overseen the My Turn, Fact Check and News teams, and was a Senior Reporter before that, mostly covering U.S. news and politics. Shane joined Newsweek in February 2018 from IBT UK where he held various editorial roles covering different beats, including general news, politics, economics, business, and property. He is a graduate of the University of Lincoln, England. Languages: English. You can reach Shane by emailing s.croucher@newsweek.com
Writers Page
Shane Croucher
,
Amanda M. Castro is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics, breaking news, consumer topics, and entertainment. She specializes in delivering in-depth news and live blog reporting and has experience covering U.S. presidential debates, awards shows, and more. Amanda joined Newsweek in 2024 from the The U.S. Sun and is a graduate of the University of New Haven. You can get in touch with Amanda by emailing a.castro@newsweek.com. Languages: English, Spanish
Writers Page
Amanda Castro
,
Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively.Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English.
Writers Page
Hannah Parry
and
Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com.Languages: EnglishIntermediate Spanish
Writers Page
Anna Commander
Breaking News Editor
Newsweek Is A Trust Project Member
FOLLOW
Live Blog
Continuous updates; facts and sources are still being cross-checked.
Share
Copy Link
✓ Link copied to clipboard!
Listen
Translate
English (Original)
Español
中国人
Français
Deutsch
Portuguese
हिन्दी
Newsweek AI is in beta. Translations may contain inaccuracies—please refer to the original content.
Read original
Speed: 0.5x
Speed: 1x
Speed: 1.5x
Speed: 2x
🎙️ Voice is AI-generated. Inconsistencies may occur.
✖
Jimmy Kimmel is meeting with Walt Disney Co. executives this evening to discuss the future of Jimmy Kimmel Live!, according to Bloomberg.
The talks will focus on whether there's a path for Kimmel's late-night show to return to air after it was suspended indefinitely on Wednesday, amid pressure from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Brendan Carr, the outlet reports, citing three sources.
Carr publicly criticized Kimmel's remarks about the fatal shooting of conservative activist Charlie Kirk and even suggested regulatory consequences. Kimmel had criticized MAGA figures for politicizing Kirk's death, prompting outrage from conservative activists.
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump has suggested that networks regularly criticize him should potentially have their licenses taken away. "They're 97% against, they give me wholly bad publicity... I mean, they're getting a license, I would think maybe their license should be taken away" Trump told reporters on Thursday. "When you have a network and you have evening shows and all they do is hit Trump...They're not allowed to do that."
What to Know:
ABC and parent company Disney also faced pressure from Sinclair and Nexstar, owners of more than 60 local ABC stations, who said they were planning to "indefinitely preempt" Jimmy Kimmel Live! after Carr's comments, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Nexstar Media Group has a pending $6.2 billion merger with Tegna, which is subject to FCC approval—raising questions about whether corporate and regulatory pressures influenced the network's response.
The suspension came amid calls from Carr for broadcasters to take action against what he called "garbage," and was swiftly praised by President Donald Trump.
Now, major Hollywood unions and progressive groups are pushing back, accusing ABC and its affiliates of censorship and demanding a boycott of Disney properties.
After years of progressive-led cancellations targeting conservative voices, the tables have turned, marking a significant moment in the culture wars.
Newsweek's live blog is closed.
08:04 PM EDT
Kimmel had been set to address FCC chair's comments on Wednesday show
Jimmy Kimmel had been preparing to address Federal Communications Commission Chairman Brendan Carr's criticisms on his Wednesday show, before he was suspended, the Wall Street Journal reports.
Sinclair and Nexstar, owners of more than 60 local ABC stations, had told ABC that they were planning to "indefinitely preempt" Jimmy Kimmel Live! in the wake of Carr's comments - starting immediately. Their decision would have severely effected the late-night show's audience figures.
Kimmel was planning to address Carr's comments head-on during his Wednesday show, by saying that his words were being twisted by members of MAGA, the Journal reports.
Co-chairman of Disney Entertainment, Dana Walden, spoke with Kimmel about his planned speech, before he was due to go on-air on Wednesday, but she left their discussion concerned the approach could further inflame the situation, sources told the newspaper. There were also reported concerns that Kimmel show staff were being doxed and threatened after Carr's remarks.
Walden spoke with her team and Disney CEO Bob Iger before coming to the decision to take Kimmel's show off the air on a temporary basis, the Journal reported. Kimmel was informed that same day.
07:47 PM EDT
'That's just not how it works,' Letterman slams Kimmel suspension
David Letterman denounced the suspension of Jimmy Kimmel during an interview on Thursday.
The former Late Night host told The Atlantic, "You can't go around firing somebody because you're fearful or trying to suck up to an authoritarian—a criminal—administration in the Oval Office.
"That's just not how this works."
David Letterman to Jeffrey Goldberg on Jimmy Kimmel’s suspension: “You can’t go around firing somebody because you’re fearful or trying to suck up to an authoritarian—a criminal—administration in the Oval Office. That’s just not how this works.” #TAF25 pic.twitter.com/yJxXOXjlj4— The Atlantic (@TheAtlantic) September 18, 2025
07:20 PM EDT
Disney execs are meeting with Kimmel tonight to discuss his future: Report
Jimmy Kimmel is meeting with Walt Disney Co. executives this evening to discuss the future of Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Bloomberg reports, citing three sources with knowledge of the talks.
The sit down will focus on whether there's a path for Kimmel's late-night show to return to air after it was suspended indefinitely on Wednesday, amid pressure from the Federal Communications Commission and local station owners over his Charlie Kirk comments.
07:11 PM EDT
Lawmakers write to ABC, Sinclair, FCC to demand answers on Kimmel
Reps. Robert Garcia and Maxwell Frost wrote to ABC, Sinclair, and the Trump Administration on Thursday demanding answers after the suspension of Jimmy Kimmel.
The lawmakers also wrote to the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) accusing it of weaponizing its federal regulatory authority.
"This action should serve as a warning to all Americans—the Constitution's right to free speech is under attack by the Trump Administration," they said in their joint letter to the FCC. This corrupt political intimidation is unacceptable... and ABC's preemption of programming that may be critical of President Trump represents a dangerous escalation in attacks on press freedom and protected speech."
On Thursday, Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer agreed to work in a bipartisan manner to bring FCC Chair Brandon Carr before the Committee to face questions the move.
"We can all agree that what happened to Charlie Kirk was horrific and that we must condemn all political violence. But recent threats from this Administration are an attack on the media and the First Amendment," said Rep. Garcia, Ranking Member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. "This Administration has shown that it will target critics and threaten their platforms simply because they disagree with them.
"Let me be clear: Americans will not be silenced. The right to free speech is sacred in this country, and we must defend it at all costs," said Ranking Member Robert Garcia
Rep. Frost, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Energy Policy, and Regulatory Affairs, added, "The suspension of Jimmy Kimmel is illegal government censorship and the work of a corrupt coalition championed by President Trump, that silences opposition in exchange for corporate profits.
"FCC Chair Brendan Carr, at the direction of Donald Trump, is manipulating companies in order to attack our First Amendment rights and must be held accountable. Nexstar has the ability to resist this pressure, but they decided to protect their potential merger and profits rather than protecting their right to deliver content free from government influence."
07:02 PM EDT
Jimmy Kimmel spotted driving to what appeared to be lawyer's office: Report
Jimmy Kimmel was seen leaving his Los Angeles home, after being suspended by ABC on Wednesday.
The Jimmy Kimmel Live! host was seen driving to what appeared to be a lawyer's office, according to the New York Post.
Kimmel, 57, pulled at a Century City complex, in L.A., that houses multiple law firms on Thursday afternoon, the Post reports.
He declined to make any comment on his recent suspension.
06:47 PM EDT
Tucker Carlson urges 'civil disobedience' if Trump DOJ targets hate speech
Tucker Carlson warned in a special episode of his show on Tuesday that "civil disobedience" could erupt should the Trump administration and other "bad actors" use Charlie Kirk's death as a means to attack free speech.
Carlson opened Wednesday's episode of The Tucker Carlson Show, a tribute to Kirk called "America After Charlie Kirk," featuring conservative and liberal guests, including Megyn Kelly and Cenk Uygur, with a near 35-minute introduction about the former conservative commentator's legacy and how free speech is essentially more vital than ever.
"Consider what it means if you don't respect free speech, which is another way of saying free conscience—the right of other people to make up their own minds about the basic questions of what is right or wrong, and to express their views on those issues," Carlson said.
"If you don't respect the right of other people to do that, and if you take steps to prevent them from doing that, what are you really saying? You're saying, "I don't think you have a soul. You're a meat puppet I can control. I think you're an animal, maybe a sub-animal. You're a slave.'"
Read in full from Nick Mordowanec on Newsweek.
06:36 PM EDT
JD Vance's past remarks on free speech resurface as Kimmel pulled off air
A February video clip of U.S. President JD Vance promising a more transparent presidential administration devoid of free speech repercussions has resurfaced in the aftermath of Charlie Kirk's killing, ABC's suspension of late-night host Jimmy Kimmel and the Trump administration's guidance to clamp down on "hate speech."
Vance, the former senator from Ohio, promised during remarks on February 14 at the Munich Security Conference that the current rendition of the Trump administration would be more pro-free speech than the previous Biden administration.
"Our own government encouraged private companies to silence people who dared to utter what turned out to be an obvious truth," Vance said. "So, I come here today not just with an observation but with an offer. And just as the Biden administration seemed desperate to silence people for speaking their minds, so the Trump administration will do precisely the opposite; and I hope that we can work together on that.
"In Washington, there is a new sheriff in town; and under Donald Trump's leadership, we may disagree with your views, but we will fight to defend your right to offer it in the public square, agree or disagree."
Vance also said in Munich that he feared free speech in Great Britain and across Europe "is in retreat," adding that allowing citizens to speak freely would make them "stronger."
JD Vance: "Our own government encouraged private companies to silence people...Under Donald Trump's leadership, we may disagree with your views, but we will fight to defend your right to offer it in the public square." (Feb. 2025) pic.twitter.com/cQWAIZzCV1— Home of the Brave (@OfTheBraveUSA) September 18, 2025
06:21 PM EDT
'If this was the last word, I'm glad it was mine,' says Kimmel's final musical guest
If this was the last word, I'm glad it was mine. @jimmykimmel @JimmyKimmelLive pic.twitter.com/voFLGlnHR1— Margo Price (@MissMargoPrice) September 18, 2025
06:04 PM EDT
Protesters gather outside Disney studio
Protesters gathered outside the Disney studio in Burbank, California, on Thursday in the wake of ABC's decision to take Jimmy Kimmel Live! off air.
Many of the demonstrators told CNN that they had already canceled their Disney+ subscriptions in protest against the move.
Actor Jake Ferree, who was holding a sign that read "Disney stop bowing to a dictator," told CNN, "This affects every aspect of free speech.
"We should be able to express ourselves. That's the point of art."
Film production accountant Taylor Smith said she hopes that this "wakes people up" as she warned that the implications were bigger that just Kimmel.
It's "about our rights being taken away from us in real time," she said.
05:49 PM EDT
Kimmel sent his 'love to the Kirk's immediately after shooting
On the day of Charlie Kirk's assassination, Jimmy Kimmel shared a message, sending his "love" to the commentator's family and urging people to agree that it was "monstrous" to shoot another person.
"Instead of the angry finger pointing can we just for one day agree that it is horrible and monstrous to shoot another human? On behalf of my family, we send love to the Kirks and to all the children, parents and innocents who fall victim to senseless gun violence," he wrote on Instagram within hours of the shooting.
Kimmel was suspended for his comments about Kirk's death, that he made on Monday.
While he never criticized Kirk or made light of his death, he did accuse Trump supporters of attempting to capitalize on the murder and distance themselves from the alleged shooter, Tyler Robinson.
"We hit some new lows over the weekend, with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them, and doing everything they can to score political points from it," Kimmel said.
Kimmel mocked President Trump's seemingly uninvolved response to a reporter's question on Kirk's death.
A post shared by instagram
05:26 PM EDT
Why was Jimmy Kimmel's show suspended?
ABC pulled Jimmy Kimmel's late-night show off the air after comments the comedian made about the recent assassination of Charlie Kirk, and following pressure from the network's affiliates as well as the nation's TV regulator.
"Jimmy Kimmel Live will be preempted indefinitely," a spokesperson for the Disney-owned broadcaster said in a statement shared with various news outlets on Wednesday.
The move has drawn praise from allies and supporters of President Donald Trump, but sparked condemnation from Democratic lawmakers and free expression advocates.
The context of Kimmel's cancellation has led to allegations that business interests—particularly those concerning a delicate merger approval process involving the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and ABC affiliate Nexstar—may have played a role.
Taken together, some have interpreted this as a form of indirect censorship of the political Left by the Trump administration. Similar concerns were raised following the recent cancellation of The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.
"First Colbert, now Kimmel. Last-minute settlements, secret side deals, multi-billion dollar mergers pending Donald Trump's approval," said Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren. "Trump silencing free speech stifles our democracy."
Newsweek has contacted ABC, Nexstar and the FCC via email for comment.
Read in full from Hugh Cameron on Newsweek.
05:14 PM EDT
Nexstar declines to comment on discussions about Kimmel's potential return
Nexstar Media Group declined to comment about whether it had started discussions with ABC about a potential framework for Jimmy Kimmel to return after his suspension, when reached by Newsweek on Thursday.
05:06 PM EDT
Jon Stewart to host The Daily Show following Kimmel's suspension
Jon Stewart is going to host Thursday night's episode of The Daily Show after ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live!
Stewart typically only hosts the show on Mondays. Desi Lydic had been hosting the rest of the week.
However, Stewart, a close friend of Jimmy Kimmel, appears to have plenty to say about the suspension.
04:47 PM EDT
Flavor Flav declares himself 'Team Jimmy Kimmel'
Team Jimmy Kimmel,,, that guys my family.— FLAVOR FLAV (@FlavorFlav) September 18, 2025
04:39 PM EDT
FCC chair says its worth agency looking into The View, after Kimmel suspension
FCC chairman Brendan Carr said it's worth the agency looking into The View, after Jimmy Kimmel's show was suspended on Wednesday.
Appearing on conservative podcast The Bulwark, Carr was asked if other shows, such as The View, could face similar issues as Jimmy Kimmy Live!
Carr said that over the years, several shows had been exempt from the equal opportunity rule, which states that during an election, if a show has on one political candidate, it must have on their rival candidates, using the bona fide news exception.
"I think it's worthwhile to have the FCC look into whether The View and some of these other programs that you have still qualify as bona fide news programs and therefore exempt from the equal opportunity regime that Congress has put in place," he said.
FCC Chairman Brendan Carr: "I think it's worthwhile to have the FCC look into The View and some of those other programs." pic.twitter.com/efI9F9CvXz— The Bulwark (@BulwarkOnline) September 18, 2025
04:28 PM EDT
Rob Schneider defends suspending Kimmel, claims late-night host lied to public
Rob Schneider defended the suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live! when he appeared on Fox News on Thursday.
The actor, who has appeared in countless Adam Sandler movies, accused Kimmel of lying to the public about the shooting of Charlie Kirk.
"When you absolutely lie to the public, then you are no longer in the public interest like Jimmy Kimmel did the other night," Schneider said.
Schneider said that he was under the impression that the FCC chair was planning to just give ABC a warning and ask for an apology, "so it is not the government doing it." He said that the decision had come from the network's consumers.
Schneider: When you absolutely lie to the public, then you are no longer in the public interest like Jimmy Kimmel did the other night…The FCC chairman, he did not say he would pull the license, he was going to give them a warning… so it is not the government doing it. pic.twitter.com/Q9lajKKGOb— Acyn (@Acyn) September 18, 2025
03:59 PM EDT
Crisis expert warns of chilling effect after Kimmel suspension: 'Companies are now all walking a political tightrope'
In exclusive comments to Newsweek, crisis management expert Edward Segal said ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! under political pressure marks a dangerous turning point for corporate America. "Under current law, the FCC has no authority to cancel or suspend programming," Segal noted. "ABC clearly succumbed to political pressure."
Segal, author of The Crisis Casebook, said the move has sent "a chill throughout corporate America and in many board rooms," warning that if criticism of figures like Charlie Kirk is off-limits today, "there is no way to know what topics may be on the chopping block tomorrow."
He urged companies to audit their internal policies around employee speech and prepare for worst-case scenarios. "Other networks and platforms should think through their responses now," he said. "If they do not have plans, they should prepare them ASAP."
Segal also cautioned against overreacting or underreacting to politically motivated pressure campaigns, saying both can escalate reputational damage. "Companies are now all walking a political tightrope," he said.
Asked whether a chilling effect is already underway, Segal was blunt: "We are already seeing it." His advice to boards and executives: "Plan, prepare, and practice. One false or poorly considered move, and they could crash."
03:46 PM EDT
Late-night shakeups threaten network loyalty, consumer trust
With Jimmy Kimmel Live! suspended and The Late Show with Stephen Colbert canceled as of May 2026, the late-night landscape is undergoing a seismic shift—and networks may face serious fallout. New data from consumer intelligence firm Resonate reveals that both hosts commanded deeply engaged, brand-loyal audiences whose absence could disrupt advertiser strategy and viewer retention.
Kimmel's 7.1 million U.S. viewers are politically distinct: 58% oppose Trump's policies, and only 10% favor brands aligned with Republican positions. These viewers are 2.5 times more likely than average to watch ABC, with 74% tuning in regularly. Their habits are consistent—75% watch comedy, 73% follow news—and their motivations are rooted in optimism and authenticity.
Colbert's 5.3 million fans show similar traits. They value trust and positivity, with 60% driven by a desire to be trusted. Like Kimmel's audience, they skew older and affluent: 54% are 55+, and 55% earn over $75K annually.
Both groups represent a prime advertising demographic—balanced, loyal, and politically aware. Their displacement raises questions about how networks will retain engagement and whether advertisers will recalibrate in response to shifting media dynamics.
03:33 PM EDT
Stephen A. Smith criticizes Jimmy Kimmel over Kirk remarks on SiriusXM debut
Stephen A. Smith attends a playoff basketball game between the Los Angeles Lakers and the Golden State Warriors at Crypto.com Arena on May 08, 2023 in Los Angeles, California.
Stephen A. Smith attends a playoff basketball game between the Los Angeles Lakers and the Golden State Warriors at Crypto.com Arena on May 08, 2023 in Los Angeles, California.
Photo by Allen Berezovsky/Getty Images
On the premiere episode of his SiriusXM show Straight Shooter, ESPN personality Stephen A. Smith weighed in on the controversy surrounding Jimmy Kimmel's suspension from ABC, questioning the intent and tone of the late-night host's remarks about the killing of conservative activist Charlie Kirk.
"The only thing that I would say as it pertains to Jimmy Kimmel is, where was the joke?" Smith said. "Because you're a late-night host — and obviously that has a comedic attachment to it. Where was the joke? Obviously, it wasn't anything funny about that."
Kimmel's Monday monologue criticized political reactions to Kirk's death and mocked President Trump's response, saying, "He's at the fourth stage of grief: construction... This is how a four-year-old mourns a goldfish." The segment drew backlash from affiliates and FCC Chairman Brendan Carr, leading ABC to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! indefinitely.
Smith, a longtime Disney colleague of Kimmel through ESPN, also condemned any celebration of Kirk's death, saying on his podcast, "Shame on you!" His guest, Utah Gov. Spencer Cox, thanked Smith for his empathy and clarity during a politically charged moment.
03:20 PM EDT
Trump suggests revoking broadcast licenses over negative coverage
President Donald Trump on Thursday floated the idea of revoking broadcast licenses from television networks he claims are biased against him. Speaking to reporters, Trump said, "They're 97% against, they give me only bad press. They're getting a license. I would think maybe their license should be taken away."
The remarks came one day after ABC suspended *Jimmy Kimmel Live!* following the host's comments linking the alleged killer of Charlie Kirk to Trump's MAGA movement. Trump referenced his 2024 election win, saying he prevailed in "all 7 swing states" despite overwhelmingly negative media coverage.
Trump indicated that any licensing decision would fall to FCC Chairman Brendan Carr, whom he praised as "a patriot" and "a tough guy." Carr has already publicly criticized Kimmel's remarks and suggested regulatory consequences for ABC affiliates.
03:07 PM EDT
Chris Hayes faces scrutiny over contrasting takes on Carlson and Kimmel
MSNBC host Chris Hayes is facing criticism for what some consider a double standard in his reactions to the high-profile exits of Tucker Carlson and Jimmy Kimmel. On Wednesday, Hayes condemned ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live!, calling it "the latest chapter in Donald Trump's ongoing campaign to crack down on free speech, dominate the media, and essentially render the First Amendment meaningless."
However, a resurfaced clip from April 2023 shows Hayes taking a sharply different tone when Fox News parted ways with Carlson. "He believed he could say anything, no matter how vile, no matter how disgusting," Hayes said at the time. "If you act like a sociopath over and over... eventually, people will be rightly offended."
02:52 PM EDT
Sinclair issues demands for Kimmel's return, cites FCC pressure and community standards
Sinclair Broadcast Group, the nation's largest ABC affiliate operator, announced Wednesday it will not air Jimmy Kimmel Live! until specific conditions are met, following the network's decision to suspend the show indefinitely. The move came after Kimmel's controversial remarks about the killing of conservative activist Charlie Kirk and mounting pressure from FCC Chairman Brendan Carr.
"Mr. Kimmel's remarks were inappropriate and deeply insensitive at a critical moment for our country," said Sinclair vice chairman Jason Smith in a statement. "We believe broadcasters have a responsibility to educate and elevate respectful, constructive dialogue in our communities."
Sinclair outlined three demands for reinstating the show: formal discussions with ABC about its commitment to professionalism, a direct apology from Kimmel to the Kirk family, and a personal donation to both the family and Turning Point USA, Kirk's nonprofit.
The company also announced it will air a "special in remembrance" of Kirk in Kimmel's timeslot across 30 markets, including Seattle, Washington, D.C., and Portland. "Regardless of ABC's plans for the future of the program," Sinclair stated, "it won't return until we are confident that appropriate steps have been taken to uphold the standards expected of a national broadcast platform."
FCC Chair Carr praised Sinclair's swift action, saying it reflects "the needs and values of the local communities you serve." Nexstar Media Group, another major ABC affiliate owner, also pulled the show and is currently seeking FCC approval for a $6.2 billion merger with Tegna.
While President Trump celebrated the suspension, calling it "Great News for America," Kimmel has received support from fellow entertainers and unions, and has publicly expressed condolences to Kirk's family.
02:39 PM EDT
'The View' silent on Kimmel suspension amid FCC scrutiny
The View’s Season 28 Co-host photo shoot. L-R: Sara Haines, Ana Navarro, Sunny Hostin, Joy Behar, Alyssa Farah Griffin, Whoopi Goldberg.
The View’s Season 28 Co-host photo shoot. L-R: Sara Haines, Ana Navarro, Sunny Hostin, Joy Behar, Alyssa Farah Griffin, Whoopi Goldberg.
Jeff Lipsky/ABC
ABC's daytime talk show The View did not address the network's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live! during Thursday's broadcast, despite growing controversy surrounding the decision. The absence of commentary comes as FCC Chairman Brendan Carr—whose public threat preceded Kimmel's removal—has previously singled out The View as a potential target for regulatory scrutiny.
In a July interview with Fox News, Carr said the show was "in the crosshairs of this administration," citing co-host Joy Behar's outspoken criticism of President Trump. The silence from The View has raised questions about internal network dynamics and whether other ABC programs may face similar pressure.
02:33 PM EDT
WATCH: Trump dismisses free speech concerns, says Kimmel 'had bad ratings'
02:25 PM EDT
Sen. Alsobrooks calls Kimmel suspension a 'five-alarm fire' on MSNBC
Senator Angela Alsobrooks (D-MD) issued a stark warning Thursday on MSNBC, calling ABC's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live! a "five-alarm fire" for free speech. Speaking with anchor Ana Cabrera, Alsobrooks condemned what she described as blatant government interference, referencing FCC Chairman Brendan Carr's public threats to ABC over Kimmel's recent monologue criticizing President Trump's response to Charlie Kirk's death.
Alsobrooks argued that the First Amendment is under siege, saying, "We didn't have to agree with what Jimmy Kimmel said, but we have a right in this country to speak freely." She warned that government censorship of media voices sets a dangerous precedent and undermines democratic norms.
The senator also discussed broader concerns about political retaliation and public health leadership, citing testimony from former CDC officials who criticized HHS Secretary Robert Kennedy Jr.'s vaccine policies. Alsobrooks urged bipartisan action, saying the erosion of scientific credibility and constitutional rights poses long-term risks to the country's safety and global standing.
02:19 PM EDT
FCC chair Brendan Carr claims Kimmel was trying to mislead fans
FCC chair Brendan Carr told CNBC that Jimmy Kimmel had been trying to "directly mislead the American public" about the shooting of Charlie Kirk.
Carr said that Kimmel's comments were "not a joke" but he was being misleading about "one of the most significant political events we've had in a long time."
02:08 PM EDT
Kimmel suspension sparks concerns over political pressure and media mergers
Jimmy Kimmel's late-night show was suspended on Wednesday after FCC Chairman Brendan Carr publicly warned ABC and its affiliates to take action against the comedian, who has frequently mocked President Trump. Carr suggested broadcast licenses could be at risk, prompting ABC's parent company, Disney, to pull Jimmy Kimmel Live! within hours.
The timing has raised questions about political influence and corporate vulnerability. Nexstar Media Group, one of the affiliates that moved to drop Kimmel's show, is currently seeking federal approval for a $6.2 billion merger with Tegna—placing the company under direct scrutiny from the Trump administration.
Critics argue that ABC could have resisted the pressure on First Amendment grounds, but Carr's public warning made the stakes clear. The episode follows a broader pattern of media entanglements, including CBS's recent cancellation of The Late Show With Stephen Colbert and its settlement of a lawsuit brought by Trump against 60 Minutes, both occurring amid merger negotiations.
Observers say the Kimmel decision reflects a growing trend of political leverage shaping network programming, with implications for press freedom and editorial independence.
02:05 PM EDT
GOP Senator Marshall claims Kimmel was turning his show into 'political agenda'
Sen. Roger Marshall celebrated the suspension of Jimmy Kimmel on Thursday, after he accused the late-night talk show host of turning his "show into another political agenda."
"Hallelujah," the Republican senator said on Newsmax to the news of Kimmel's suspension.
"I was thinking last night, as I saw that news, I thought back, what did Johnny Carson do with politics? What did Jay Leno do with politics? And by the way, they were both a lot funnier and more entertaining than Jimmy Kimmel.
"So they didn't touch politics, is my point, and they certainly didn't attack people personally like Mr. Kimmel did.
"So look, he was on his way to the bottom as far as ratings go, anyway. America was tired of that type of rhetoric. They were tired of basically him turning a show into another political agenda, and we just wish him the best. We'll just be very polite here."
01:48 PM EDT
Who is Brendan Carr? Trump's FCC chair and co-author of Project 2025
Brendan Carr is the current chair of the FCC (Federal Communications Commission).
He first joined the FCC as an attorney in the Office of General Counsel in 2012. Two years later, he became an advisor to then-Commissioner Ajit Pai, before becoming General Counsel.
In June 2017, President Donald Trump nominated Carr to be a Commissioner of the FCC. He was confirmed by the Senate and has served as a commissioner since.
In January 2025, when Trump returned to office, he nominated Carr to become Chair of the FCC.
Carr has said his focus is on deregulation, expanding oversight of tech platforms (especially around claims of "censorship"), reexamining media-ownership and diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) policies.
The chair also wrote a chapter about the agency in Project 2025, the Heritage Foundation's controversial blueprint for a conservative presidency.
01:35 PM EDT
Senator calls Kimmel's suspension a 'five-alarm fire' for free speech
Sen. Angela Alsobrooks said she found the suspension of Jimmy Kimmel, over his comments about Charlie Kirk, "deeply concerning."
Speaking on MSNBC on Thursday, the Democratic Maryland senator said that she was not surprised that the new FCC chair had made the decision, because he was "one of the authors of Project 25."
"And what we know is that we - this is a five-alarm fire. And I hope that every American watching understands clearly what we are seeing. The First Amendment in our country is sacrosanct. It is the basis of our country. And having the right to freely speak is a basic right. It is not partisan either. It is not partisan. But this is a five-alarm fire.
"It is deeply concerning to me and ought to be to every single person watching the perilous course that we are on. We didn't have to agree with what Jimmy Kimmel said, but we have a right in this country to speak freely. And having the government sanction what we say, to censor what we say, to control what we say is a very dangerous, dangerous precedent."
01:19 PM EDT
Everything Charlie Kirk said about Jimmy Kimmel
Charlie Kirk criticized Jimmy Kimmel, whose show has been taken off the air over his remarks about the assassination of the conservative activist, at several points over the years.
Kirk has made critiques against Kimmel as early as October 2017, when he wrote to a post on X that Kimmel "isn't funny." In the following years, Kirk made a number of remarks about Kimmel, who has been critical of Trump and other Republicans.
In 2020, Kirk wrote that "everyone who has been caught in blackface is a leftist," while listing several celebrities who have faced criticism for alleged use of blackface, a practice that is widely considered to be racist. Kimmel apologized for using blackface in a sketch in 2020.
"There is nothing more important to me than your respect, and I apologize to those who were genuinely hurt or offended by the makeup I wore or the words I spoke," he said, according to NPR.
In March of 2024, Kirk mocked Kimmel for reading a Truth Social post made by Trump while hosting the Oscars, in which Trump asked if there had ever been a "worse host" than Kimmel.
"Jimmy Kimmel reads Trump's Truth Social post ripping Kimmel as a mediocre, woke host of this year's Oscar's. He lives rent free in these people's minds," Kirk wrote to X.
Weeks later, in April, Kirk mentioned Kimmel in a post about former President Joe Biden's reelection chances.
"The Rock says he regrets endorsing Joe Biden. Former TDS patient, actor Michael Rapaport, says he will not vote for Biden. James Carville warns of young men fleeing the Democrat Party. Minority voters are flocking to Trump. Jimmy Kimmel can't fathom why Trump is ahead in several crucial swing states. Joe Biden is spending money defending Minnesota and Maine," he wrote.
In August 10, he posted a video of Kimmel criticizing some voices on the left "repelling" people from the Democratic Party.
"Jimmy Kimmel says 'repulsive' liberal voices drive people away from Democrat Party but somehow fails to admit he's one of them," Kirk responded.
He also discussed Kimmel earlier this year after Kimmel's monologue about people vandalizing Tesla vehicles with Senator Mike Lee, a Utah Republican. Kirk said that not a "single advertiser" would say his remarks went "too far," while Lee described his remarks as "shameful."
01:12 PM EDT
Jimmy Fallon abruptly drops out of event following Kimmel's suspension
Jimmy Fallon has pulled out of a festival shortly before he was set to make a public appearance, organizers confirmed.
The NBC late-night host was expected to appear on a New York conference panel at the Fast Company Innovation Festival on Thursday morning. However, organizers emailed attendees just 30 minutes before the event was set to start to inform them Fallon had pulled out.
"Unfortunately, Jimmy Fallon is no longer able to attend today's session," the festival said in a statement.
Newsweek has reached out to Fallon, through NBC, and the Fast Company Innovation Festival, via email for further comment.
Read in full from Hannah Parry on Newsweek.
01:07 PM EDT
Kevin Clancy says Kimmel's suspension was 'dead wrong'
Barstool Sports' Kevin Clancy shared his "gut reaction" to the suspension of Jimmy Kimmel.
"My gut reaction of the Kimmel suspension was dead wrong," he wrote on X.
"After I learned about how the purview of the FCC and their hypocrisy, plus the $6.2 billion Nexstar merger, it's pretty clear there is a lot of corruption and collusion going on. Big business + big govt, it's f**ked."
My gut reaction of the Kimmel suspension was dead wrong. After I learned about how the purview of the FCC and their hypocrisy, plus the $6.2 billion Nexstar merger, it’s pretty clear there is a lot of corruption and collusion going on. Big business + big govt, it’s fucked pic.twitter.com/eycJYfpoSM— KFC (@KFCBarstool) September 18, 2025
12:59 PM EDT
Disney stock dips after ABC suspends Jimmy Kimmel's show
The Walt Disney Company saw its stock fall 0.67% in early Wednesday trading following ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! indefinitely.
The suspension sparked immediate political reaction, with President Trump praising the decision and critics warning of government overreach. FCC Chairman Brendan Carr had earlier suggested ABC could face regulatory consequences if it didn't act.
Investors reacted to the programming shakeup with concern, reflecting broader anxieties over Disney's handling of politically sensitive content. Analysts say the situation could impact advertising revenue and influence future content policies across Disney's media platforms, including ABC, ESPN, and Hulu.
ABC has yet to announce replacement programming for the late-night slot, and the long-term future of Jimmy Kimmel Live! remains uncertain. Industry observers are watching closely, viewing the episode as a potential precedent for how major networks respond to political pressure.
12:57 PM EDT
'You just can't stand by,' says Jason Bateman over Kimmel's suspension
Actor Jason Bateman warned "you just can't stand by" after Jimmy Kimmel's show was suspended indefinitely on Wednesday.
"Well, it's troubling to say the least," Bateman said as he appeared on NBC's The Today show on Thursday, with Craig Melvin. "And we all have to really take a moment and figure how we feel about this type of thing.
"I'm sure there's going to be some sort of collective move to respond to this, but I'm not smart enough or powerful enough to be the one to do it but I imagine there's plenty of conversations going on to do something, because you just can't stand by and let stuff like that go on," he continued.
When asked what "stuff" he was referring to, Bateman responded, "Well, Jimmy getting his show pulled for freedom of speech."
12:43 PM EDT
House Democrat launches probe into ABC's Kimmel suspension
California Rep. Robert Garcia announced Thursday that the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will investigate what he described as "corrupt schemes and threats" aimed at silencing critics of President Donald Trump. The move follows ABC's sudden suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live! after pressure from Trump allies and FCC Chairman Brendan Carr.
Garcia condemned the network's decision, calling it a threat to First Amendment protections. "Anyone who is complicit will need to answer to us," he said. The investigation will examine whether federal regulators and media affiliates acted improperly in response to Kimmel's remarks about the killing of conservative activist Charlie Kirk.
The controversy has drawn sharp criticism from Democrats, including Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, who likened the pressure campaign to tactics used by authoritarian regimes. Meanwhile, Nexstar and Sinclair, two major ABC affiliate owners, pulled the show from their lineups, with Nexstar's $6.2 billion merger currently under FCC review.
12:29 PM EDT
Future of 'Who Wants to be a Millionaire' unclear after Kimmel suspension
ABC has not addressed the status of Who Wants to Be a Millionaire following its decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! indefinitely. Kimmel, who hosts and executive produces the game show reboot, was nearing the end of the fourth season when the network pulled his late-night program on September 17.
The celebrity-filled season of Millionaire had been on a scheduled break, with its finale—featuring Sarah Silverman, Marc Maron, and The Office stars Oscar Nuñez and Kate Flannery—still listed to air on September 25. Journalist Matthew Belloni reported that ABC currently has "no plans" to remove the show from its lineup.
12:14 PM EDT
Keith Olbermann: 'Nothing Jimmy Kimmel said was untrue'
In a post on X, ex-MSNBC star Keith Olbermann wrote: "Nothing Jimmy Kimmel said was untrue."
He added to his post a transcript of what Kimmel said to prompt his suspension.
Nothing Jimmy Kimmel said was untrue. pic.twitter.com/xSogjg7gK9— Keith Olbermann (@KeithOlbermann) September 18, 2025
12:01 PM EDT
Boycott movement targets ABC and Disney over Kimmel suspension
Following ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! indefinitely, online activists have launched a coordinated boycott campaign targeting the network and its parent company, Disney. The action plan, circulating widely on Reddit and social media, urges users to cancel subscriptions to Disney+, Hulu, and ESPN, halt purchases of Disney merchandise, and avoid trips to Disney theme parks.
The backlash stems from Kimmel's recent monologue referencing Charlie Kirk's killing, which critics say was mischaracterized by regulators and affiliate owners. FCC Chairman Brendan Carr warned ABC of potential license consequences, and Nexstar Media Group—currently seeking FCC approval for a $6.2 billion merger with Tegna—pulled the show from its affiliates before ABC followed suit.
Hashtags like #cancelDisneyPlus and #boycottABC are trending, with some users also calling for protests outside Disney properties and urging shareholders to sell off stock. While Disney shares dipped slightly, analysts say investor sentiment could shift further if advertiser pressure intensifies.
11:49 AM EDT
FCC Chair says Sinclair has 'every right' to demand Kimmel donates to Turning Point USA
FCC Chair Brendan Carr said on Thursday that Sinclair has "every right" to demand that Jimmy Kimmel apologize and make a "meaningful" donation to Turning Point USA.
FCC Chair Brendan Carr says Sinclair has "every right" to demand that Jimmy Kimmel to donate to Turning Point USA pic.twitter.com/SCmDC8ljkL— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) September 18, 2025
11:46 AM EDT
Jimmy Fallon withdraws from Innovation Festival appearance
Jimmy Fallon attends the People's Choice Awards 2018 on November 11, 2018 in Santa Monica, California. Fallon was recently dragged online by GoPro for a video he uploaded.
Jimmy Fallon attends the People's Choice Awards 2018 on November 11, 2018 in Santa Monica, California. Fallon was recently dragged online by GoPro for a video he uploaded.
Matt Winkelmeyer/Getty Images
NBC host Jimmy Fallon canceled a scheduled appearance at the Fast Company Innovation Festival on Thursday morning, just 30 minutes before his session was set to begin in New York. Fallon had been slated to speak alongside Bozoma Saint John in a panel titled "Staying 'On Brand,'" tied to their upcoming unscripted NBC series.
Festival organizers cited "recent events" as the reason for his absence, though no further details were provided. Fallon's team has not issued a public statement. Saint John participated in the session as planned.
11:23 AM EDT
JD Vance jokes that Marco Rubio is the new host of ABC's late night show
JD Vance jokes that Marco Rubio is the new host of ABC's late night show after Jimmy Kimmel was suspended.
"Everyone please congratulate@marcorubio, the new host of ABC's late night show!" he posted on X.
Everyone please congratulate @marcorubio, the new host of ABC's late night show!— JD Vance (@JDVance) September 18, 2025
11:14 AM EDT
Musicians Union condemns ABC over Kimmel suspension, cites threat to free expression
The American Federation of Musicians (AFM) issued a strong statement on Wednesday criticizing ABC and the Trump administration following the network's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! indefinitely. The union, which represents entertainment industry musicians including those from Local 47 in Los Angeles who work on the show, called the move "a direct attack on free speech and artistic expression."
AFM President Tino Gagliardi said the FCC's response to Kimmel's remarks—coupled with threats of regulatory action—amounts to "state censorship." He warned that such pressure undermines core democratic principles and puts livelihoods at risk.
"We stand in solidarity with all those who will be without work because of government overreach," Gagliardi added. The statement joins a growing chorus of concern from labor groups and civil liberties advocates over the implications of the suspension.
11:12 AM EDT
FCC chair promises 'much bigger shakeup'
FCC Chair Brendan Carr said on Thursday that there is a "much bigger shakeup that's underway right now" in the wake of Jimmy Kimmel's suspension.
"Ever since President Trump won the election, it's created a permission structure for markets, including the media market , to rationalize. If you look at the ratings for late night TV, they've been in an absolute nosedive for years," he said on CNBC.
FCC Chair Brendan Carr: "There's a much bigger shakeup that's underway right now. Ever since President Trump won the election, it's created a permission structure for markets -- including the media market -- to rationalize. If you look at the ratings for late night TV, they've… pic.twitter.com/exbK8oJACM— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) September 18, 2025
11:02 AM EDT
Trump dismisses free speech concerns over Kimmel suspension
During a joint press conference with UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer in London, President Donald Trump addressed the controversy surrounding ABC's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live!, downplaying claims of political censorship.
"Jimmy Kimmel was fired because he had bad ratings more than anything else," Trump said. "They should've fired him a long time ago. So you can call that free speech or not."
Trump: "Jimmy Kimmel was fired because he had bad ratings more than anything else ... they should've fired him a long time ago. So you can call that free speech or not." pic.twitter.com/TYanNokhjd— Aaron Rupar (@atrupar) September 18, 2025
10:49 AM EDT
Obama condemns Kimmel suspension, warns of government overreach
Former President Barack Obama weighed in Thursday on the controversy surrounding ABC's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live!, accusing the Trump administration of weaponizing regulatory threats to silence media voices. In a pair of widely shared posts on X, Obama said the government's pressure campaign against broadcasters marks a "new and dangerous level" of cancel culture.
"This is precisely the kind of government coercion that the First Amendment was designed to prevent," Obama wrote, urging media companies to "stand up rather than capitulate."
After years of complaining about cancel culture, the current administration has taken it to a new and dangerous level by routinely threatening regulatory action against media companies unless they muzzle or fire reporters and commentators it doesn't like. https://t.co/uts7JpJZzN— Barack Obama (@BarackObama) September 18, 2025
10:28 AM EDT
Stephanopoulos addresses Kimmel suspension on ABC morning broadcast
George Stephanopoulos attends the 2024 Los Angeles Times Festival of Books at the University of Southern California on April 20, 2024 in Los Angeles, California. The longtime 'GMA' anchor and his cohosts revealed their Eras...
George Stephanopoulos attends the 2024 Los Angeles Times Festival of Books at the University of Southern California on April 20, 2024 in Los Angeles, California. The longtime 'GMA' anchor and his cohosts revealed their Eras Tour plans in July 2024.
More
Getty Images/David Livingston
ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos opened Thursday's broadcast with a pointed acknowledgment of the network's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! overnight.
Stephanopoulos introduced a two-minute report from a correspondent, outlining the timeline and fallout from the suspension. He closed the segment by framing the move as part of a broader pattern, calling it "the latest move against the independent media from President Trump and his appointees."
10:14 AM EDT
Details so far: ABC suspends 'Jimmy Kimmel Live' after FCC rebuke and affiliate pushback
Jimmy Kimmel Live! was pulled off the air on Wednesday after a rapid chain of events sparked by Kimmel's on-air comments and ensuing political pressure. On Monday's monologue, Kimmel accused "the MAGA gang" of trying to frame Charlie Kirk's alleged killer as one of their own, and followed up Tuesday by saying "many in MAGA-land are working very hard to capitalize on the murder of Charlie Kirk."
The controversy escalated when FCC Chairman Brendan Carr, in a Wednesday podcast interview, labeled Kimmel's remarks "the sickest conduct possible" and warned the commission could revoke ABC affiliate licenses if Disney did not take action against the host.
Shortly thereafter, Nexstar Media Group—operator of around two dozen ABC stations—issued a statement rejecting Kimmel's comments and announcing it would replace his show with alternative programming.
After Nexstar's announcement, ABC confirmed that Jimmy Kimmel Live! would be suspended nationwide "indefinitely."
10:00 AM EDT
What did Jimmy Kimmel when Charlie Kirk was shot?
When Charlie Kirk was shot and killed, Jimmy Kimmel said on social media: "Instead of the angry finger-pointing, can we just for one day agree that it is horrible and monstrous to shoot another human? On behalf of my family, we send love to the Kirks and to all the children, parents and innocents who fall victim to senseless gun violence."
View this post on Instagram
A post shared by Jimmy Kimmel (@jimmykimmel)
09:46 AM EDT
House Democratic Leadership shares a statement on Kimmel's suspension: 'This will not be forgotten'
Minority Leader of the U.S House of Representatives Hakeem Jeffries shared a statement via X on behalf of House Democratic Leadership on ABC's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live!
In part, the statement says: "Donald Trump and the Republican Party's war on the First Amendment is blatantly inconsistent with American values. Media companies, such as the one that suspended Mr. Kimmel, have a lot to explain. The censoring of artists and cancellation of shows is an act of cowardice. It may also be part of a corrupt pay-to-play scheme. House Democrats will make sure the American people learn the truth, even if that requires the relentless unleashing of congressional subpoena power. This will not be forgotten."
House Democratic Leadership Statement on the Suspension of Jimmy Kimmel. pic.twitter.com/WOVSC51unG— Hakeem Jeffries (@RepJeffries) September 18, 2025
09:34 AM EDT
What did Jimmy Kimmel say about Charlie Kirk?
Jimmy Kimmel Live! has been taken off the air following comments the host made in his show on Monday night in the wake of the killing of conservative influencer Charlie Kirk.
"Jimmy Kimmel Live will be pre-empted indefinitely," a spokesperson for ABC said in a statement.
During the show's opening monologue, Kimmel said: "We hit some new lows over the weekend, with the MAGA gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them and doing everything they can to score political points from it.
"In between the finger pointing there was grieving. On Friday, the White House flew the flags at half-staff, which got some criticism, but on a human level you can see how hard the President is taking this."
Read the full story by John Trotter on Newsweek.
09:09 AM EDT
Free speech group slams ABC over Kimmel suspension, citing government pressure
The Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression (FIRE) issued a sharp rebuke on Wednesday following ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! Indefinitely. In a post on X, the free speech advocacy group accused the federal government of pressuring the network into silencing the late-night host after his controversial remarks about Charlie Kirk's killing.
FIRE pointed to FCC Chairman Brendan Carr's warning to ABC—"do this the easy way or the hard way"—as evidence of coercion. The group argued that the timing of ABC's decision suggests political interference and sets a dangerous precedent for media independence.
"We cannot be a country where late night talk show hosts serve at the pleasure of the president," FIRE wrote.
BREAKING UPDATE: The government pressured ABC — and ABC caved. The timing of ABC's decision, on the heels of the FCC chairman’s pledge to the network to “do this the easy way or the hard way,” tells the whole story. Another media outlet withered under government pressure,…— FIRE (@TheFIREorg) September 17, 2025
08:55 AM EDT
Who is Brendan Carr?
FCC Chairman Brendan Carr testifies before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government at the Rayburn House Office Building on May 21, 2025 in Washington, DC.
FCC Chairman Brendan Carr testifies before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government at the Rayburn House Office Building on May 21, 2025 in Washington, DC.
John McDonnell/Getty Images
Brendan Carr, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), has emerged as a central figure in the fallout surrounding ABC's suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live! Carr, who oversees broadcast licensing nationwide, publicly criticized Kimmel's remarks about the political leanings of Charlie Kirk's accused killer—comments that aired Monday and sparked backlash from conservative media owners and regulators.
Carr, a longtime Republican appointee with deep ties to conservative legal circles, has built a reputation for challenging perceived liberal bias in media and tech. He previously served as the FCC's General Counsel and was confirmed to the commission by both Presidents Trump and Biden. Since taking the helm, Carr has launched investigations into diversity policies at major networks and reinstated complaints alleging political distortion in news coverage.
08:39 AM EDT
Tennis star Martina Navratilova defends Jimmy Kimmel after ABC suspension
This is all from the DICTATOR PLAYBOOK!!! https://t.co/C34UuKfhtL— Martina Navratilova (@Martina) September 17, 2025
Tennis legend Martina Navratilova voiced support for Jimmy Kimmel on Wednesday following ABC's decision to suspend his late-night show indefinitely. The move came after Kimmel's controversial remarks about the political leanings of Tyler Robinson, the suspect in Charlie Kirk's killing.
Navratilova, known for her outspoken liberal views, posted a series of messages on X objecting to Disney's decision and reshared posts criticizing the suspension. Her reaction adds to a growing chorus of public figures questioning whether political pressure played a role in ABC's move.
💙💙💙 https://t.co/dmb50eJ5di— Martina Navratilova (@Martina) September 17, 2025
08:27 AM EDT
Jimmy Kimmel's show suspended midday as guests arrived at studio
ABC's abrupt decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! on Wednesday caught staff, guests, and audience members off guard, with some already en route to the El Capitan Theater in Hollywood when the news broke, CNN reported.
Sources told CNN that Kimmel's team had been preparing for the evening's taping as usual, holding calls with publicists just before the suspension was announced. Wanda Sykes, scheduled to appear on the show, posted: "For those of you who pray, now's the time to do it."
Audience members waiting outside the theater were turned away, including a couple from Virginia who called the cancellation "ridiculous." Inside ABC, staffers expressed shock, with many questioning whether the show will return amid heightened political scrutiny. Kimmel's contract runs through May, and his long-standing criticism of President Trump has fueled speculation about the network's decision.
ABC has not confirmed whether Kimmel or his team will continue to be paid during the suspension.
08:14 AM EDT
ABC affiliate owner demands Jimmy Kimmel make Charlie Kirk donation
Jimmy Kimmel, winner of the Outstanding Host for a Game Show Award for "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire", attends the 2025 Creative Arts Emmy Awards at Peacock Theater on September 7, 2025 in Los...
Jimmy Kimmel, winner of the Outstanding Host for a Game Show Award for "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire", attends the 2025 Creative Arts Emmy Awards at Peacock Theater on September 7, 2025 in Los Angeles, California.
More
Kevin Winter/Getty Images
Media giant Sinclair called on Jimmy Kimmel to apologize directly to Charlie Kirk's family over remarks he made about the conservative activist's killing, and to give both them and Turning Point USA a "meaningful personal donation."
Sinclair, which owns a number of ABC affiliates, had told ABC that it would indefinitely preempt Jimmy Kimmel Live! prior to the show's suspension by the network.
The controversy centered on remarks Kimmel made in a recent monologue in which he floated that the suspect in the killing of Kirk, 22-year-old Tyler Robinson, could be aligned with "the MAGA gang" or possibly "one of them."
The controversy centers on remarks Kimmel made in a monologue after Kirk's death about MAGA and 22-year-old Tyler Robinson, the suspect in the killing.
"We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA Gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them and doing everything they can to score political points from it," Kimmel said.
MAGA activists interpreted the comment as an accusation that Robinson was from their pro-Trump movement.
Read the full story by Martha McHardy and Shane Croucher on Newsweek.
08:01 AM EDT
Who owns ABC?
The American Broadcasting Company (ABC), one of the major U.S. television networks, is owned by The Walt Disney Company. Its operations fall under Disney Entertainment, a division that oversees the company's media and content platforms.
ABC began as a radio network in 1943, evolving into television by 1948. Over the decades, it underwent several mergers, including a pivotal one with United Paramount Theatres in the 1950s. In 1996, Disney acquired Capital Cities/ABC Inc., bringing ABC under its corporate umbrella. Today, ABC remains a central part of Disney's broadcast portfolio, alongside assets like ESPN and Hulu.
07:47 AM EDT
Megyn Kelly condemns Jimmy Kimmel over Kirk remarks, applauds ABC suspension
Megyn Kelly issued a blistering critique of Jimmy Kimmel on social media, accusing the late-night host of falsely linking Charlie Kirk's killer to the MAGA movement during a recent monologue. In a lengthy post, Kelly argued in a very lengthy tweet that Kimmel's comments were made despite public evidence suggesting the suspect held left-wing views and had no ties to conservative politics.
She opened the post by writing: "I'm not sure who needs to hear this but Jimmy Kimmel got on the air and falsely stated as a fact that Charlie Kirk's killer was MAGA, smearing an entire movement and Trump in particular with a vile disgusting lie - and at a time when the threat against those on the right is at an all-time high."
Kelly called the remarks "a vile disgusting lie" and said they were intended to incite hatred against Trump supporters. She praised ABC's decision to suspend Jimmy Kimmel Live! and suggested the network faced intense backlash from viewers. Her post also referenced past controversies involving ABC, including the firing of Chris Harrison, and warned that conservative audiences are "fed up" with what she described as media bias and political smears.
I'm not sure who needs to hear this but Jimmy Kimmel got on the air and falsely stated as a fact that Charlie Kirk's killer was MAGA, smearing an entire movement and Trump in particular with a vile disgusting lie - and at a time when the threat against those on the right is at an...— Megyn Kelly (@megynkelly) September 18, 2025
07:34 AM EDT
Sinclair replaces Kimmel slot with Charlie Kirk tribute, demands apology
Sinclair Broadcast Group will replace the Friday night slot of Jimmy Kimmel Live! on its ABC affiliate stations with a tribute special honoring Charlie Kirk. The company is also offering the special to ABC affiliates nationwide.
In a statement, Sinclair demanded that Jimmy Kimmel issue a formal apology to Kirk's family and make a "meaningful personal donation" to both the family and Turning Point USA, the organization Kirk founded.
Sinclair Vice Chairman Jason Smith called Kimmel's remarks "deeply insensitive" and urged the FCC to take regulatory action to curb national network influence over local broadcasters. The company says it will not reinstate the show until ABC demonstrates a renewed commitment to "professionalism and accountability."
07:21 AM EDT
Hollywood rallies behind Jimmy Kimmel after ABC suspension
Major Hollywood figures are defending Jimmy Kimmel after ABC pulled Jimmy Kimmel Live! indefinitely following his remarks about the killing of conservative activist Charlie Kirk. The move, prompted by backlash from affiliate owners and FCC pressure, has sparked outrage across the entertainment industry.
Actors including Ben Stiller, Wanda Sykes, and Jamie Lee Curtis voiced support for Kimmel, while SAG-AFTRA condemned the suspension as a violation of free speech. Critics say the decision reflects growing political influence over broadcast media and raises concerns about censorship in an election year.
Sykes commented on the issue, saying: "Let's see. He didn't end the Ukraine war or solve Gaza within his first week. But he did end freedom of speech within his first year. Hey, for those of you who pray, now's the time to do it. Love you, Jimmy."
One Tree Hill star Sophia Bush said: "The First Amendment doesn't exist in America anymore. Period. Fascism is here and it's chilling."
"@jimmykimmel his humor, his insights are important to keep showing us who we are. AND he is a most wonderful fellow," actor Henry Winkler tweeted.
@jimmykimmel his humor, his insights are important to keep showing us who we are . AND he is a most wonderful fellow— Henry Winkler (@hwinkler4real) September 18, 2025
07:07 AM EDT
WATCH: Jimmy Kimmel's show taken off air after Charlie Kirk remarks, Trump rejoices
06:22 AM EDT
South Park suddenly pulls episode
Amid the uproar over Jimmy Kimmel and a broader MAGA backlash against how some people have responded to the killing of Charlie Kirk, the latest episode of "South Park" was suddenly pulled from the schedule.
Comedy Central had earlier removed a rerun of the "South Park" episode titled "Got a Nut," which parodied Kirk, after the conservative activist was shot and killed.
The animated series "South Park" is known for its satirical and provocative depictions of notable figures and major themes in American society. It recently depicted President Donald Trump as Satan's lover.
But this latest abrupt cancellation of a new episode is due to a missed deadline, according to co-creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker in a statement posted to social media.
"Apparently when you do everything at the last minute sometimes you don't get it done. This one's on us. We didn't get it done in time," the pair said. "Thanks to Comedy Central and South Park fans for being so understanding. Tune in next week!"
06:07 AM EDT
Riley Gaines: "zero sympathy"
Riley Gaines, the elite college swimmer-turned-activist against transgender men in women's sports, now a star of the MAGA movement, was a friend of Charlie Kirk's. She has shared her reaction to Kimmel's suspension.
Jimmy Kimmel showed zero sympathy for a husband and father of two young kids who was politically assassinated in cold blood.So forgive me if I can’t muster any sympathy when the network that’s carried his show for 20 years decides to pull the plug.— Riley Gaines (@Riley_Gaines_) September 18, 2025
05:58 AM EDT
What did Jimmy Kimmel say about Charlie Kirk and MAGA?
During a monologue on his show Monday night, September 15, Kimmel made reference to some of the discussion taking place around the political affiliations of Charlie Kirk's suspected killer, Tyler Robinson.
Investigating authorities have said there is strong evidence that Robinson held left-wing beliefs and had a hatred of conservative activist Kirk. He also lived with a transgender romantic partner.
But some of the online meme culture referenced in the evidence, including engravings on bullet casings believed to have been made by Robinson, triggered speculation among liberals that he was involved with the far-right Groyper subculture.
Robinson's family has also been described by those who know them as conservative and pro-Trump. FBI Director Kash Patel has said Robinson's family told investigators he held left-wing beliefs.
On social media, MAGA influencers pushed back hard against the suggestions that Robinson came from the right of politics—and this is the context in which Kimmel made his comments.
"We hit some new lows over the weekend with the MAGA Gang desperately trying to characterize this kid who murdered Charlie Kirk as anything other than one of them and doing everything they can to score political points from it," Kimmel said.
MAGA activists interpreted the comments as another accusation that Robinson was from their pro-Trump movement, triggering a backlash against Kimmel.
05:02 AM EDT
Hollywood, media unions condemn the Kimmel suspension
SAG-AFTRA, which represents 160,000 actors and other media professionals, said it "condemns the suspension of Jimmy Kimmel Live!"
"Our society depends on freedom of expression. Suppression of free speech and retaliation for speaking out on significant issues of public concern run counter to the fundamental rights we all rely on," the statement said.
"Democracy thrives when diverse points of view are expressed. The decision to suspend airing Jimmy Kimmel Live! is the type of suppression and retaliation that endangers everyone's freedoms."
The two east and west branches of the Writers Guild of America (WGA), labor unions for writers across media and entertainment, also hit out at the decision to suspend Kimmel over his Charlie Kirk comments.
"The right to speak our minds and to disagree with each other—to disturb, even—is at the very heart of what it means to be a free people," the WGA said in its statement.
"It is not to be denied. Not by violence, not by the abuse of governmental power, nor by acts of corporate cowardice.
"As a Guild, we stand united in opposition to anyone who uses their power and influence to silence the voices of writers, or anyone who speaks in dissent.
"If free speech applied only to ideas we like, we needn't have bothered to write it into the Constitution. What we have signed on to—painful as it may be at times—is the freeing agreement to disagree.
"Shame on those in government who forget this founding truth. As for our employers, our words have made you rich. Silencing us impoverishes the whole world.
"The WGA stands with Jimmy Kimmel and his writers."
04:54 AM EDT
Why Did ABC Pull Jimmy Kimmel?
At the heart of the Jimmy Kimmel drama is a business story worth billions of dollars—and how the combination of political oversight and big financial interests can harm free expression.
Nexstar, which owns ABC affiliates and moved to pull Kimmel from its programming over his remarks about Charlie Kirk, is seeking FCC approval for a $6.2 billion merger with Tegna.
That deal would potentially break a rule that no single broadcaster can reach more than 39 percent of American homes, so the FCC would have to lift the cap in order for the merger to go ahead.
FCC Chair Brendan Carr had publicly criticized Kimmel and, on a right-wing influencer's podcast, told licensed stations to "step up" and stop "this garbage" from reaching the local communities they serve.
His comments heaped political and financial pressure on media companies navigating a febrile and toxic atmosphere in the aftermath of Kirk's assassination.
Subsequently, Nexstar and another major ABC affiliate owner, Sinclair, told ABC they'd be pulling Kimmel's show from their stations. ABC suspended Jimmy Kimmel Live!.
Carr, who will ultimately make the call on the Nexstar-Tegna merger, warmly welcomed the decision—as did President Donald Trump.
Civil liberties groups called the suspension a flagrant violation of the First Amendment.
04:25 AM EDT
Calls to boycott Disney, ABC over Kimmel suspension
Social media erupted in a backlash among Democrats and liberals to Kimmel's show being pulled, with many calling for a boycott.
Brian Krassenstein, a political commentator who gained social media notoriety for blasting Trump, posted to X: "BOYCOTT ALERT! Disney/ABC just caved & pulled Jimmy Kimmel for political reasons. Nexstar — which owns The CW + 200+ local ABC, NBC, CBS & FOX stations — is part of the same machine."
"Boycott Disney. Boycott Nexstar. Boycott their advertisers. Hit them where it hurts: the $$$. RESHARE," his post concluded.
Fred Guttenberg, father of slain Parkland shooting victim, also posted on X: "The 2A killed the First Amendment. @jimmykimmel was right. If my memory is correct, these MAGAT's ran against cancel culture. Shame on @ABCNetwork. My television will never be on ABC ever again."
Podcast host and YouTuber Brian Tyler Cohen reacted on Bluesky, saying, "See ya, Hulu." The post included a picture of a canceled subscription.
Columnist and public speaker Wajahat Ali, wrote on X: "Every major talent that works for ABC and Disney should refuse to show up for work until Jimmy Kimmel is reinstated. Marvel movies need to shutdown. Ditto the sitcoms. Collective boycott. Corporations love money more than anything, & this will really harm them and force them to do the right thing."
Podcast host Joanne Carducci, known as JoJoFromJerz, posted: "Boycott everything affiliated with ABC and Disney. Pass it on."
Democratic strategist Keith Edwards wrote: "Boycott Disney. Cancel Hulu. Don't let them get away with this."
fairness meter
fairness meter
Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair.
Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter.
Newsweek is committed to journalism that's factual and fair.
Hold us accountable and submit your rating of this article on the meter.
Click On Meter To Rate This Article
Confirm your selection
Comment on your rating
Share
Request Reprint & Licensing
Submit Correction
View Editorial Guidelines
To read how Newsweek uses AI as a newsroom tool, Click here.
Top stories
Charlie Kirk's Widow, Erika, Speaks for First Time Since Assassination
Who Is Tyler Robinson? Charlie Kirk Shooting Suspect Identified
Utah Governor Spencer Cox Emerges as Voice of Reason After Kirk Killing
Republicans Pass Map Eliminating Seat Democrats Held for 76 Years
About the writer
Shane Croucher is a Breaking News Editor based in London, UK. He has previously overseen the My Turn, Fact Check and News teams, and was a Senior Reporter before that, mostly covering U.S. news and politics. Shane joined Newsweek in February 2018 from IBT UK where he held various editorial roles covering different beats, including general news, politics, economics, business, and property. He is a graduate of the University of Lincoln, England. Languages: English. You can reach Shane by emailing s.croucher@newsweek.com
Writers Page
Shane Croucher
,
Amanda M. Castro is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics, breaking news, consumer topics, and entertainment. She specializes in delivering in-depth news and live blog reporting and has experience covering U.S. presidential debates, awards shows, and more. Amanda joined Newsweek in 2024 from the The U.S. Sun and is a graduate of the University of New Haven. You can get in touch with Amanda by emailing a.castro@newsweek.com. Languages: English, Spanish
Writers Page
Amanda Castro
,
Hannah Parry is a Newsweek Live Blog Editor based in New York. Her focus is reporting on U.S. politics and society. She has covered politics, tech and crime extensively.Hannah joined Newsweek in 2024 and previously worked as an assistant editor at The U.S. Sun and as a senior reporter and assistant news editor at The Daily Mail. She is a graduate of the University of Nottingham. You can get in touch with Hannah by emailing h.parry@newsweek.com. Languages: English.
Writers Page
Hannah Parry
and
Anna Commander is a Newsweek Editor and writer based in Florida. Her focus is reporting on crime, weather and breaking news. She has covered weather, and major breaking news events in South Florida. Anna joined Newsweek in 2022 from The National Desk in Washington, D.C. and had previously worked at CBS12 News in West Palm Beach. She is a graduate of Florida Atlantic University. You can get in touch with Anna by emailing a.commander@newsweek.com.Languages: EnglishIntermediate Spanish
Writers Page
Anna Commander
FOLLOW
Share on LinkedIn
Shane Croucher is a Breaking News Editor based in London, UK. He has previously overseen the My Turn, Fact Check and News teams, and was a Senior Reporter before that, mostly covering U.S. news and politics. Shane joined Newsweek in February 2018 from IBT UK where he held various editorial roles covering different beats, including general news, politics, economics, business, and property. He is a graduate of the University of Lincoln, England. Languages: English. You can reach Shane by emailing s.croucher@newsweek.com
Shane Croucher is a Breaking News Editor based in London, UK. He has previously overseen the My Turn, Fact Check
...
Read more
U.S.WorldScienceHealthRankingsOpinionEntertainmentFact CheckMy TurnEducationEventsSportsPodcastsBetter PlanetBetter WorkplacesVaultMightierAutosNewslettersUnconventionalVantageExpertsVoices
Trending
Israel at War Vladimir Putin Russia-Ukraine War Donald Trump
Subscriptions
Membership Monthly $4.99
Membership Yearly $49.00
Membership+Print Monthly $9.99
Membership+Print Yearly $99
Newsletters in your inbox See all
The Bulletin (Daily)See SampleThe Gist of It (Daily)Geoscape (Twice a Week)The 1600 (Daily)Inside Trump Policy (Weekly)Newsweek AI (Weekly)Sports Daily (Daily)The Josh Hammer Report (Weekly)See SampleFor The Culture (Three Times a Week)See SampleDiscoveries (3 Times a Week)Like & Subscribe (Daily)Breaking News (As it Breaks)The Debate (Twice a Week)Pawsitively (Daily)Better Planet (Weekly)The Good Life (Weekly)Newsweek Pulse (2x3 Times a Month)
Sign up now
You can unsubscribe at any time. By signing up you are agreeing to our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy
In The Magazine
September 19
2025 Issue
Company
About UsMastheadDiversityAnnouncementsArchivePolicies and StandardsMission StatementLeadershipNewslettersPress Center
Editions:
U.S. Edition日本PolskaRomânia
Contact
AdvertiseCareersContact UsCorrections
Terms of Use
Cookie PolicyCopyrightPrivacy PolicyTerms & ConditionsTerms of Sale Privacy Settings
© 2025 NEWSWEEK DIGITAL LLC