3 reasons VPN use is set to explode worldwide - and that might apply to you | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Security
3 reasons VPN use is set to explode worldwide - and that might apply to you
Analysts expect the global VPN market to rapidly grow in the next five years. Here's why.
Written by
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 7:13 a.m. PT
BlackJack3D/iStock/Getty Images PlusFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysThe global VPN market is set to grow by 17.4% (CAGR) by 2030.Growth drivers include remote work, cloud tech, and data security. VPNs also protect against censorship and surveillance. Analysts predict that the worldwide Virtual Private Network (VPN) market will grow at an astronomical rate over the next five years, with a changing work environment and security becoming key reasons for increased VPN adoption.Also: These popular free VPNs all share the same shady security practices - here's whyAccording to a new report by Maximize Market Research, the global VPN market was valued at $48.7 billion in 2023, and this is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 17.4% until 2030.By the end of 2030, the market is projected to reach $149.72 billion, and the US is expected to take the lion's share of the market, dominating it with a 41% share by 2030 -- although the Asia-Pacific region will grow the fastest. There are three main drivers of VPN adoption we should expect to see, according to the report.The main VPN growth driversRemote and hybrid working practices are the first reason for increased VPN adoption. While many organizations have mandated a return to the office following the pandemic, many others have accepted that the workforce now wants the flexibility to work from home -- and this presents a number of challenges. A VPN is often integrated into corporate networks to enable secure, encrypted remote connections to sensitive company resources. While it's not always foolproof, a VPN does give organizations more control over remote access controls -- a critical element in network security today. Also: Best VPN services 2025: The fastest VPNs with the best networks, rankedAnother trend is a move toward cloud-based VPN deployment. This one is hardly surprising, as cloud technologies allow businesses to transition from on-premise software deployments to the cloud, which can reduce costs and improve work efficiency. Analysts say this movement is due to "ease of scalability, lower upfront infrastructure investment, and reduced maintenance."The most interesting growth factor concerns data privacy. Hardly a week goes by without a significant data breach or an email warning of a security incident related to an online account. While we can't control how an organization protects the data it holds on us, we can take specific steps to improve our online privacy. These include using a VPN.
How VPNs protect you VPNs mask your original IP address and create an encrypted tunnel to hide your online activities, reducing the possibility of you being tracked or spied upon -- and helping to protect your data when you are accessing online services. Also: When you should use a VPN - and when you shouldn'tIt's also a key tool for avoiding censorship and circumventing ISP and government-level blocks. For example, recently, VPN downloads surged in the UK as the government imposed a controversial (and censorship-laden) online safety bill, while Nepalese protesters used them en masse to bypass a social media blackout. Overall, it's not just businesses that understand how valuable VPNs can be. Consumers, too, are now exploring VPN usage more, perhaps in part due to government mandates concerning online censorship, widespread data collection by brokers, and worries over online surveillance. If you're interested in trying a VPN out for yourself, check out our guide on the best VPNs of 2025. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best VPN services 2025: The best VPNs for rapid speeds and streaming
ExpressVPN review: One of the fastest VPNs we've tested
The best VPNs for school: Expert tested
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use