Financial Advisors | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Financial Advisors Financial Advisors
Featured
The Hidden Costs of Passive Investing
Larry Swedroe Sep 25, 2025
Investors Flock to Semiliquid Funds for Income
Jason Kephart Sep 25, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
A Breakdown of Target-Date Fund Strategies in 2025
Janet Yang Rohr, CFA Sep 15, 2025
The Investing Risk You Might Be Overlooking When Buying Popular Stocks
Larry Swedroe Sep 11, 2025
Financial Advisor Topics
Investor Behavior
View All
The Psychology Behind Market Betting (and Why it Fails)
Danielle Labotka Aug 25, 2025
It Feels Different This Time—but It Probably Isn’t
Ryan O. Murphy, Ph.D. Jul 30, 2025
Can Generative AI Help Combat Investing Biases?
Samantha Lamas Jun 30, 2025
Are You Being Finfluenced?
Samantha Lamas Jun 3, 2025
My Baptism by FIRE: Lessons on Financial Independence
Christine Benz May 29, 2025
JL Collins: The (Still) Simple Path to Wealth
Christine Benz May 20, 2025
This Fund Followed the Rules. That Was the Problem
Jeffrey Ptak, CFA May 20, 2025
A Financial Guide for 2025 College Graduates
Lauren Hammett May 16, 2025
You Know Nothing—Embrace That and You’ll Earn a Decent Return
Jeffrey Ptak, CFA Apr 3, 2025
Private Markets
View All
Investors Flock to Semiliquid Funds for Income
Jason Kephart Sep 25, 2025
3 Ways Private Companies Are Reshaping Public Markets
Zachary Evens Sep 24, 2025
Investors First: Inside Morningstar’s Semiliquid Fund Ratings
Kunal Kapoor, CFA Sep 24, 2025
Robinhood’s First Fund Could Spell Disaster for Investors
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
On Second Thought: The Alternate Reality of Secondary Funds’ Returns
Jack Shannon Sep 12, 2025
Morningstar’s Guide to Semiliquid Funds
Tori Brovet Sep 3, 2025
2 Funds Star in Debut of Morningstar Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid Funds
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 3, 2025
How to Evaluate Semiliquid Fund Performance
Jack Shannon Aug 28, 2025
What Investors Need to Know About Private Assets Managers
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Aug 28, 2025
Financial Planning
View All
Nick Murray: ‘The Investor Is Hardwired to Be His Own Worst Enemy’
Christine Benz Aug 12, 2025
Vanguard Offering Financial Advice for Just $100
Christine Benz Aug 7, 2025
Active ETFs Are a Top Choice for Model Portfolio Providers
Jason Kephart Jul 31, 2025
The Importance of Incorporating Income Risk Into Financial Planning
Sebastian Gomez-Cardona, Ph.D. Jul 10, 2025
5 Simple but Tough-to-Answer Client Questions
Sheryl Rowling Jul 9, 2025
10 Key Takeaways From the Morningstar Investment Conference
Sheryl Rowling Jun 30, 2025
Eric Simonson: The Case for Flat-Fee Financial Advice
Christine Benz Jun 24, 2025
If Your Financial Advisor Is Not Doing These 3 Things, It’s Time for a Change
Sheryl Rowling Jun 18, 2025
Ask Your Advisor These Questions Before Investing in Custom Model Portfolios
Jason Kephart May 28, 2025
More for Financial Advisors
Trump Savings Accounts: The Hidden Tax-Reporting Challenge Basis tracking makes Trump accounts more complex than they appear.
Denise Appleby Sep 11, 2025
Ask Your Advisor These Questions Before Investing in Derivative Income ETFs Derivative income ETFs like JEPI are hot, but are they a good investment idea for you?
Jason Kephart and Susan Dziubinski Sep 4, 2025
Why the Bond Market Is Fertile Ground for Active Management Its structure poses inherent challenges for passive investing.
Eric Jacobson Aug 28, 2025
5 Things You Need to Know About Interval Fund Fees A cheat sheet for how to assess fees you can see and those you can’t.
Jason Kephart Aug 28, 2025
What Investors Need to Know About Private Assets Managers Asset managers focused on private markets and offering semiliquid funds require extra due diligence.
Bridget B. Hughes, CFA Aug 28, 2025
How Private Equity Funds Understate the Risk in Their Investments A closer look at “volatility laundering” in private equity, and how investors should account for it.
Larry Swedroe Aug 28, 2025
Global Defense Market Trends: How Geopolitical Shifts Are Shaping Opportunities in the Sector
Rising global defense budgets and innovations in military tech and AI are creating investment opportunities advisors shouldn’t overlook.
Loredana Muharremi Aug 27, 2025
Investors First: Evolving Expectations and Expanding Access Explore how the industry is evolving to meet the needs of clients at every life stage.
Kunal Kapoor, CFA Aug 27, 2025
5 Ways to Protect Clients From Catastrophic Risk Advisors must help clients see insurance not as a sunk cost but as essential protection.
Sheryl Rowling Aug 26, 2025
6 Lessons From Losing a Friend and Colleague Leaving a legacy and other thoughts from a life gone too soon.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Aug 26, 2025
Why Vanguard Is Doubling Down on Active Fixed-Income Strategies CEO Salim Ramji on how active bond management at the right price can serve investors well.
Christine Benz and Dan Lefkovitz Aug 21, 2025
3 Liquid Alternative Funds That Bring the Defense
Diversification is the best defense against the unknown.
Jason Kephart Aug 21, 2025
10 Things to Know About the Trump Savings Account The new OBBBA-created accounts offer tax-deferred savings for children but come with unique rules, limits, and deadlines.
Denise Appleby Aug 20, 2025
Think of the Stock Market as Great Businesses—Not a ‘Hissing, Writhing Bag of Poisonous Snakes’ How advisors can stop fear from driving clients away from the companies they trust most.
Jess Bebel Aug 17, 2025
Recession Indicators: The Financial Advisor’s Cheat Sheet
Explore key economic signals and where markets stand today.
Andrew Daniels Aug 15, 2025
Is Investing Becoming Too Complex? Vanguard’s CEO Weighs In Salim Ramji discusses private markets, cryptocurrency, and Vanguard.
Christine Benz and Dan Lefkovitz Aug 14, 2025
Price Primarily Predicts Future Returns, Not Future Earnings Growth Investors should look beyond growth forecasts, study suggests.
Larry Swedroe Aug 14, 2025
The More Investors Traded, the Less Their Average Dollar Made And four other lessons from our annual ‘Mind the Gap’ study.
Jeffrey Ptak, CFA Aug 13, 2025
Nick Murray: ‘The Investor Is Hardwired to Be His Own Worst Enemy’ The advisor to advisors discusses setting plans, dismisses algorithms over humans, and showcases the highest value service that advisors provide.
Christine Benz and Amy C. Arnott, CFA Aug 12, 2025
Do Donor-Advised Funds Serve Charities—or Custodians? Advisors must weigh whether national custodians or community foundations better serve clients’ charitable goals.
Sheryl Rowling Aug 12, 2025
Featured Contributors
Sheryl Rowling
Editorial Director, Financial Advisor
Samantha Lamas
Senior Behavioral Insights Researcher
Denise Appleby
Contributing Author
Danielle Labotka
Behavioral Scientist (Saving & Retirement)
Laura Lallos
Managing Editor, Morningstar Magazine
Jerry Kerns
Editor in Chief, Morningstar magazine.
Products for Advisors
More
Direct Advisory Suite
A powerful suite of capabilities designed to help financial advisors deliver great advice at scale.
Morningstar Managed Portfolios
Our broad lineup of portfolios is designed to help your clients’ needs at each stage of their lifetimes.
Advisor Managed Accounts
Helps RIAs deliver personalized strategies in a prudent, scalable, and efficient manner.
Plan Advantage
A comprehensive tool that helps advisors prospect, manage plan lineups, and access detailed investment information.
Pitchbook
The leading source for comprehensive data, research, insights, and analytical tools spanning the global capital markets.
Additional Resources
Advisor Digest
Every Tuesday and Thursday, get Morningstar’s essential reading for financial professionals.
Morningstar Investment Research
Expert analysis from 100+ global researchers on securities, funds, markets, and portfolios.
Morningstar Magazine
The magazine of independent research for the world’s financial professionals.
Related Topics
Investor Behavior
Private Markets
Financial Planning
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility