Is Temu legit? Here's the truth - and whether tariffs will ruin those low prices | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Business
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Business
E-Commerce
Is Temu legit? Here's the truth - and whether tariffs will ruin those low prices
Before buying from Temu, you might wonder: Are the items real? Does the site steal your data? Will tariffs ruin your bargain hunting? Let's unpack it all.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
March 7, 2025 at 10:32 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Alyson Windsor
Bloomberg/Getty ImagesIf you're an avid online shopper, chances are you've probably heard of an e-commerce site called Temu. The Chinese-owned digital marketplace has exploded, with millions of Americans downloading and purchasing items using the mobile app. The shopping app is so popular that it was the Apple App Store's most-downloaded app in 2024. Many online digital creators frequently post the items they've bought from the site, and you might be wondering what the website is all about and if you should do the same. According to Statista, Temu sees over 30 million new downloads monthly, making it the number-one shopping app in Apple's App Store and the Google Play Store. Also: Temu vs. Amazon: Which shopping site is best for your buying needs?If you've hesitated to place an order, you may be unsure if the items are genuine, how long they take to get to your door, and whether they're good quality. After all, how good can a $1 handbag even be? Well, look no further because this article addresses all your questions about Temu. Let's get into it.
What is Temu? Take a look for yourself View now at Temu
What is Temu?
Temu is an online shopping megastore offering almost any product you can imagine. You can buy car accessories, clothing, kitchen appliances, electronics, outdoor furniture, power tools, baby clothes, and everything in between. Also: Temu's return policy changes: What happened when I tried returning a bunch of itemsTemu's standout feature is that many of the site's products are incredibly cheap. You can buy shoes for $15, necklaces for $1, and wireless keyboards for $10. In fact, whatever you can think of is probably on Temu for less than $50.
Show more
Screenshot by Jada Jones/ZDNETSome people compare Temu to sites like Shein, Wish, and AliExpress, but Temu is slightly different. Shein primarily focuses on fashion and clothing items, while you can buy almost anything on Temu. Wish and AliExpress are known for having lower-quality items, longer shipping times, and a shorter item return window. Temu launched in late 2022 and quickly rose to the top spot in the App Store's and Play Store's shopping categories. People found out about Temu from ads and were attracted to the site's low prices.
Are the products on Temu real?
Yes, most of the products on Temu are real; you will receive them, and it takes about 10 days for them to reach your doorstep.However, any tech products you order on Temu are not name-brand unless there is a blue checkmark on their product listing. You can buy items like laptops, smartphones, and tablets, but they're from lesser-known manufacturers.Also: I bought some off-brand geeky stuff from Temu (and wasn't mad about it)Some customers have found that the items they ordered looked slightly different from those on the website or were of lower quality than expected. My colleague David Gewirtz purchased a few tech items from Temu and detailed the quality and value of each item. From my experience, you can find many good-quality tech accessories on Temu, like phone cases, AirPods cases, and laptop covers. However, I would not recommend buying device charging cables, stations, off-brand, or "dupe" tech items from Temu.
Show more
Is it safe to buy from Temu?
I can't definitively tell you that it's safe or unsafe to buy items from Temu. However, here are some safeguards you should implement when purchasing from Temu and any other online retailer.If you have an iPhone, consider using the "Hide My Email" feature when you sign up for a Temu account. This feature generates a random email address and will forward messages to your iCloud email. If you receive too many spam messages to the hidden email address, you can easily deactivate it.If you don't have an iPhone, don't fret. Email providers offer aliases that you can create for websites you don't fully trust or don't want clogging up your inbox.Never link your bank account or debit card to an online retailer. A hacking attempt can compromise your payment information. Instead, consider buying and using Visa gift cards or paying with Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, Google Pay, or PayPal. These payment methods are much more challenging for bad actors to access. If you must use a non-gift card, consider using a credit card over a debit card. Credit card companies have more comprehensive fraud protections to keep your line of credit safe.
Show more
How do I order from Temu?
To buy items from Temu, follow the same formula for any e-commerce site. Find things you like, add them to your cart, and check out.There is one wrinkle before you purchase your items: you must have at least $20 worth of items in your cart before you can check out. Temu says the $20 minimum is in place to "continue offering more and lower-priced items." However, Temu has doubled its minimum cart balance since last year.Temu offers a $5 credit for packages purchased with standard shipping if your items arrive late. The company will also credit you $13 for packages purchased with express shipping that arrive late. Also: How much tech can I get from Temu for $100 (and is it any good)?In other cases, the items can arrive on time, be decent or good quality, and be exactly how they look on Temu's website. Product quality can be unpredictable, which is not so different from offerings in other online stores.If your items don't look like their online listing, arrive damaged, or don't arrive at all, your order is eligible for Temu's Purchase Protection Program. This program guarantees your money back with a full refund if you return your items within 90 days of purchase.Item prices on Temu fluctuate constantly. If you buy an item and its price decreases after your purchase, you can request a price adjustment. The difference will be available on your account as a Temu credit within minutes.
Show more
Is Temu affected by tariffs?
In February, the Trump administration announced tariffs on imports from China (in addition to Mexico and Canada). Initially, this reversed the de minimis exemption, a law that exempts packages worth $800 or less coming into the US from tariffs. That undermined Temu's business model, since the company operates on small, cheap, frequent orders that it subsidizes the shipping costs of. Also: Apple's response to trade tariffs? A $500 billion investment and thousands of US jobsAs a result, Temu briefly raised prices and made much of its stock unavailable. However, the Trump administration then paused that reversal, leaving the de minimis exemption in place for now but its future in limbo overall. The Wall Street Journal reported that Temu and similar Chinese companies like Shein are taking the pause to explore contingency plans, including storing more inventory in the US. On March 3, the Trump administration increased tariffs on Chinese imports from 10% to 20%, which will likely impact prices for consumer electronics like laptops, tablets, and phones. Since the tech on Temu is already on the cheaper side, the tariffs might just bring those prices closer to standard -- but, as we've said, Temu tends toward smaller tech items like keyboards and earbuds as opposed to full-blown tablets, and they're lower quality.
Show more
Why is Temu controversial?
The US government accused Temu of potential data risks after Google suspended its sister site, e-commerce platform Pinduoduo, for containing malware. According to CNBC, analysts say Temu is less of a threat, and the risks associated with Pinduoduo were targeted at Chinese users.Separately, the US House Select Committee on the Chinese Communist Party published a report that states Temu does not take the necessary steps to ensure the products on the site comply with the Uyghur Forced Labor Act.The same report asserts that Temu exploits a US commerce loophole that allows the company to avoid paying tariffs and complying with US commerce laws and regulations.
Show more
Are the products on Temu good quality?
Temu is not accredited by the Better Business Bureau (BBB) and has an average rating of two-and-a-half out of five stars. Many recent complaints about Temu on the BBB website say that items never arrived or took weeks or even months to arrive.Many people are pleased with their Temu purchases on social media, particularly on TikTok. From little gadgets and household items to clothes and shoes, Temu is one of TikTok's popular obsessions. I've tried products from Temu, and I encountered minimal problems. Of course, some items are cheaply made, but that's to be expected when you pay $1 or $3. The items on Temu are generally what you would expect them to be.
Show more
Should I buy tech from Temu?
At ZDNET, we've only tested tech-related items from Temu. One of ZDNET's contributing experts, David Gewirtz, bought a handheld gaming console that claimed to have 27,000 retro games installed on it.However, upon using the console, David found that none of the games were downloaded, and the product listing was misleading. I've tested a pair of earbuds, headphones, a wireless keyboard, and a mouse from Temu, and they all worked as expected. Of course, they were lower quality, and you could find better-quality tech items elsewhere.Also: The best noise-canceling earbuds you can buy: Expert testedI've also purchased many AirPods and iPhone cases from Temu and have been pleasantly surprised. The cases are usually of excellent color, fit, and durability.So, the best advice we can give you is to avoid electronics and big-ticket items and instead choose accessories and small gadgets.
Show more
Is Temu a Chinese company?
Temu's parent company is PDD Holdings, a multinational commerce group headquartered in Dublin, Ireland. PDD Holdings owns Temu and its sister company, Pinduoduo. It isn't easy to pinpoint Temu's exact origins. In a February 2023 SEC 6-K filing, Pinduoduo changed its name to PDD Holdings in a special resolution. The company also moved its principal executive offices from Shanghai, China, to Dublin, Ireland.The executive office relocation isn't necessarily a red flag, as many tech companies -- including American ones -- move to Ireland because of the country's low corporate tax rates.Also: I tried 4 tech products from Temu. Here's how it wentTemu says the company was founded in Boston in 2022, but the site's "About Us" page does not mention its parent company, according to The Washington Post. Temu's Boston office is not a warehouse full of products, but more than likely is the central office that's connected to Temu's other offices worldwide.According to the Boston Globe, Temu set up camp in Boston partially because of its proximity to Canada, where the company recently opened another office.
Show more
Does Temu produce its products ethically?
According to Retail Insider, Temu's reverse-manufacturing model helps the company decrease waste by gauging customers' desired products more accurately. Temu's Third Party Code of Conduct stresses that the company has a zero-tolerance policy for vendors that use forced labor to manufacture products. All Temu vendors must comply with local wage and hour laws, and their working conditions must be safe and non-abusive. However, the US House Select Committee's report states that Temu does not have an auditing or compliance program to ensure sellers comply with its Code of Conduct.If you're wondering if Temu is environmentally ethical, that's a trickier topic. Sites like Temu, Shein, and AliExpress say they're committed to environmental sustainability by digitizing the economy, cutting supply chain waste, and offsetting carbon emissions.However, many of these companies also distribute products containing harmful chemicals that eventually end up in landfills. These companies also claim to offset their emissions by purchasing carbon credits to fund sustainability initiatives. However, how, when, and where these carbon credits help the environment is unclear.Additionally, the US House Select Committee's report says that Temu does not correctly ensure its products are not the result of forced labor. It's illegal to sell items in the US that come from China's Xinjiang region. China's Xinjiang region has a convoluted and violent history between the Chinese government and the Uyghur people. It is common for items manufactured in this region to be the product of forced labor.
Show more
Why is Temu so cheap?
According to Temu, the items on the site are so cheap because the supply chain runs directly from consumers to sellers. Without a go-between, Temu can slash prices. However, the exclusive use of third-party sellers raises questions about Temu's ethics.
Show more
Does Temu steal or sell your data?
All e-commerce apps collect data when you create an account and visit the app's home page. This data can include your precise physical location, address, and device ID, as well as your search history, payment information, and contacts.Some apps use this data to track you across apps and websites, to understand performance, and to target you with ads.Some of this data is linked to your identity, and some isn't -- the connection depends on the app you're using. In recent years, people have been increasingly concerned about how their data is being stored and are wary specifically of data storage by Chinese-based apps.Also: Is Temu safe? Why its single-layer security should be a red flag to shoppersAccording to Temu's privacy policy, the company does not "sell" your data -- for money, at least. However, Temu does share your information with shipping affiliates, marketing providers, and consumer research companies, which generates revenue for Temu.Temu also "shares" your data with third-party advertising, marketing, and analytics companies to target you with ads. In its privacy policy, Temu acknowledges that this transfer of data can be considered "selling" your data under applicable laws.Although concerns about sharing your data with Temu might be valid, it's important to remember that apps can and do collect and store your data with few limits. US. citizens' user data is not federally protected under a single law, so data collection remains unregulated in most states. Because American user data remains federally unregulated, Temu might access your credit history, Walmart might collect your biometric information (fingerprints, face geometry, and retina imagery), and Amazon might collect your voice recordings when you speak to Alexa.Also: 5 Amazon Alexa privacy settings you should change right awayAs Americans' user data is not wholly protected, it's up to the individual to decide how much of their data they want to relinquish -- and which platforms they want to give it to.Remember, when you sign up for an account on any platform, you agree to the company's privacy policy. So, Temu is not "stealing" your data if you willingly sign up and purchase items. The bottom line is that if you don't consent to this kind of data collection, stay away from Temu.
Show more
Check out what's available on Temu View now at Temu
Is Temu a good company to buy from?
Online shopping can be a gamble. Fake reviews are littered across American retailers, such as Amazon and Walmart, which damage consumers' trust in online stores.Also: 5 ways Amazon can make an AI-powered Alexa subscription worth the costItems can be lost in transit, stolen from your doorstep, broken during the shipping process, or show up looking completely different than they did online. Temu's standard shipping policy in the US. is free, but your items aren't expected to ship for seven to 15 business days. Temu says that if your package never arrives, or you're told it's been delivered but hasn't been, you should contact customer service within 90 days of purchase.
Show more
Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
These popular free VPNs all share the same shady security practices - here's why
The iPhone 17 lineup arrived with higher price tags – are tariffs to blame?
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use