Explore our publication fees and funding for open access publishing - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Publication fees
PLOS employs several business models to support equitable open access. Most open access journals offset publication expenses – including the cost of peer review management, journal production, and online hosting and archiving – by charging a fee for each article published (APC). Our partnerships with institutions and funders aim to simplify the process for authors and reduce the burden of cost.
Publication fees vary by journal and are payable upon article acceptance. Fees are subject to change and charged at the applicable rates effective on your submission date.
Pay invoice
Future of open access
We’re working alongside researchers, funders and institutions to reimagine more equitable and sustainable models for open access publishing.
All PLOS journals provide APC-alternative models for institutions to support their authors’ open access publication goals. Institutional partnerships can eliminate the cost and management of publication fees for many PLOS authors. Find out if your institution is one of our Institutional Partners.
What other fee assistance options are available?
Current fees
For researchers not currently included in an institutional partnership model or covered by our Research4Life program, our individual publication fees are listed below.
PLOS OneRegistered Report Protocol $1,780Registered Report Article $1,046Lab Protocols $1,477Study Protocols $2,382All other articles $2,382
PLOS ClimateResearch Article $2,496
PLOS Complex SystemsResearch Article $3,043
PLOS Computational BiologyResearch Article $3,043
PLOS Digital HealthResearch Article $3,043
PLOS GeneticsResearch Article $3,043
PLOS Global Public HealthResearch Article $2,496
PLOS Mental HealthResearch Article $2,496
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
Research Article $2,670
PLOS Pathogens
Research Article $3,043Short Reports $3,043
PLOS WaterResearch Article $2,496
Under our Community Action Publishing model for PLOS Biology, PLOS Medicine and PLOS Sustainability and Transformation authors will only incur fees if their institutions are not members of the journal’s collective action community. These non-member fees are as below:
PLOS BiologyResearch Article $5,500Pre-registered Research Article $5,500Short Reports $5,500Methods and Resources $5,500Meta-Research Article $5,500Discovery Report $4,675Update Article $3,150
PLOS MedicineResearch Article $6,460
PLOS Sustainabilityand TransformationResearch Article $3,400
Fees are subject to change and charged at the applicable rates effective on the submission date.
Open access funding support
There is growing momentum to encourage open access publishing through funding initiatives. Globally, authors benefit from the increasing availability of institutional, government, and foundation open access funds. Funding assistance for publication fees are available from many organizations, including PLOS.
Institutional open access fundsMany institutions already support their researchers by setting aside financial resources to cover or reduce the cost of their open access publications.If you do not see your institution on our list of Institutional Account Participants, contact your librarian to see if there are other support options available to you. You can also encourage your institution to partner directly with PLOS to support all future publications in our journals. Simply fill out this form and we’ll do the rest.Let your institution know you want their support.
Funder fee supportMore and more funders are encouraging researchers to publish in open access journals where their work can be read, and shared by all. Contact your funder directly to find out if they allow fees to be included as line items on a grant or provide specific article processing grants.All PLOS journals comply with major funder requirements for open access sharing so authors don’t need to worry about their article’s eligibility.
We believe that lack of funds should not be a barrier to open access publication PLOS is working to lower financial barriers to publication through our institutional partnership models. We also provide direct support to authors through our Research4Life and Publication Fee Assistance programs.
Research4LifePublication in any PLOS journal is free for authors whose research is funded primarily (50% or more of the work contained within the article) by an institution located in a Research4Life Group A country.Authors whose research funder is based in a Research4Life Group B country also publish for free in PLOS Biology, PLOS Climate, PLOS Global Public Health, PLOS Medicine, PLOS Mental Health,  PLOS Sustainability and Transformation and PLOS Water. For all other journals, the publication fee will be reduced to $800.Use the button below to search the country where your institution is based to find out what level of support you qualify for.
Check to see if your country qualifies
Authors must indicate they require Research4Life fee assistance at the time of manuscript submission. Authors from Group B countries who need additional support should apply for PLOS Publication Fee Assistance (below) instead of Research4Life.
PLOS Publication Fee Assistance Program
The PLOS Publication Fee Assistance (PFA) program was created for authors unable to pay all or part of their publication fees and who can demonstrate financial need.
An author can apply for PFA when submitting an article for publication. A decision is usually sent to the author within 10 business days. PLOS considers applications on a case-by-case basis.
PLOS publication decisions are based solely on editorial criteria. Information about applications for fee assistance are not disclosed to journal editors or reviewers.
Authors should exhaust all alternative funding sources before applying for PFA. The application form includes questions on the availability of alternative funding sources such as the authors’ or co-authors’ institution, institutional library, government agencies and research funders. Funding disclosure information provided by authors will be used as part of the PFA application review.
Assistance must be formally applied for at submission. Requests made during the review process or after acceptance will not be considered. Authors cannot apply for the fee assistance by email or through direct request to journal editors.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top