Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Canada dismantles TradeOgre exchange, seizes $40 million in crypto
Stay fit and connected — and spend 68% less on an Apple Watch
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
FBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portals
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 16, 2025
11:58 AM
4
Microsoft has announced that the Windows Management Instrumentation Command-line (WMIC) tool will be removed after upgrading to Windows 11 25H2 and later.
WMIC is a legacy built-in Windows command-line tool that allows users to interact with the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) system using text commands.
In a Microsoft 365 message center update, Microsoft now advises IT administrators to switch to Windows PowerShell for WMI, scripts, and other tools because later Windows releases will no longer include WMIC by default.
"Microsoft recommends using PowerShell and other modern tools for any tasks previously done with WMIC. You can consider programmatic alternatives such as WMI's COM API, .NET libraries, or scripting languages. Once you decide on your way forward, please update your internal IT documentation and processes," the company said.
However, this change only applies to the outdated WMIC component, as the Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) itself remains unaffected.
Further guidance for those who use WMIC for administrative tasks is available in this separate support document published by Microsoft on Friday.
Microsoft deprecated WMIC in Windows Server 2012 (in 2016) and in Windows 10 21H1 (2021). Redmond converted it into a Feature on Demand (FoD) starting with Windows 11 22H2 (in 2022) and announced in January 2024 that it would be removed altogether after first disabling it by default.
WMIC deprecation timeline (Microsoft)
"We've been heavily investing in PowerShell in the past few years. The new tools provide a more efficient way of querying WMI. Removing a deprecated component helps reduce complexity while keeping you secure and productive," Microsoft said in January 2024.
​WMIC's removal will also boost overall security by thwarting a wide range of malware and attack tactics that will no longer function correctly.
The tool has long been considered a LOLBIN (living-off-the-land binary), a Microsoft-signed executable that threat actors exploit for a wide range of malicious activities during attacks.
For instance, ransomware encryptors commonly use the WMIC command to delete Shadow Volume Copies, ensuring that victims can't use them to recover encrypted data. Other threat actors have used WMIC to query for the list of installed antivirus software and uninstall it.
Malware has also been observed using WMIC to add exclusions to Microsoft Defender, evading detection when launched.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCsNotepad gets free AI features on Copilot+ PCs with Windows 11Windows 11 23H2 Home and Pro reach end of support in 60 daysMicrosoft fixes app install issues caused by August Windows updatesMicrosoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Microsoft
Windows
Windows 11
Windows 11 25H2
WMIC
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
wpontius
-
4 days ago
As per KB5067470 a new installation of 24H2 already removes WMIC by default and the September update also says "WMIC will be removed from some systems",
it is also said only outdated WMIC is removed. Why so many word games Microsoft?!
h_b_s
-
4 days ago
"As per KB5067470 a new installation of 24H2 already removes WMIC by default and the September update also says "WMIC will be removed from some systems",
it is also said only outdated WMIC is removed. Why so many word games Microsoft?! "
There's no inconsistencies here.
"A new installation" doesn't "remove" anything since it was never installed to begin with.
It was a deprecated, optional install for the past ~3 years of installation media refreshes.
25H2 *update* will remove WMIC where it was previously installed, an entirely appropriate announcement for those remaining that still depend on the deprecated program.
wpontius
-
2 days ago
Went back and re-read the KB article and found I missed some important details.
Obviously didn't read the article to well either,
WMIC being a optional feature is right in there big as life.
My bad, sorry!!
ZeroYourHero
-
1 day ago
So PowerShell WMI/CIM commands are the replacement. OK.
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
ShinyHunters claims 1.5 billion Salesforce records stolen in Drift hacks
Google patches sixth Chrome zero-day exploited in attacks this year
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT