Can you take time off work for mental health? And other questions answered : Life Kit : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Can you take time off work for mental health? And other questions answered : Life Kit Whether it's depression, anxiety, burnout or something else, if you're struggling with your mental health at work, it can be hard to know what your options are and how to seek help. Here's a look at the stigma around mental health at work, how to spot an issue and what to do about it.
Life Kit
Tools To Help You Get It Together
Health
Money
Parenting
Dear Life Kit
Life Skills
Podcast
Newsletter
Twitter
NPR
LISTEN & FOLLOW
NPR App
Apple Podcasts
Spotify
Amazon Music
iHeart Radio
YouTube Music
RSS link
What to do if you're struggling with your mental health at work
Updated March 14, 20221:20 PM ET
Originally published March 10, 202212:03 AM ET
By
Jordan-Marie Smith
,
Andee Tagle
What to do if you're struggling with your mental health at work
Listen
·
19:44
19:44
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1085193816/1197917491" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Enlarge this image
Jasjyot Singh Hans for NPR
Jasjyot Singh Hans for NPR
When you're not in the right headspace, being at work can be difficult.
Whether it's depression, burnout, anxiety or something else, struggling with your mental health while you're waiting tables or sitting behind a desk can disrupt your life and your job.
But there's a stigma to taking time off to care for your mental health that's not present with physical health. The mindset is, "Just work, work, work, push through it and get to the other end and deal with it," says Jody Adewale, a Los Angeles-based psychologist and medical advisor for the mental health advocacy foundation, Made of Millions.
Sponsor Message
Addressing your mental health needs is important — and human. "It's not a character flaw or a character defect or a sign of weakness," says Adewale. "It's something that everyone I think on this planet will experience at one point or another in their life." Life Kit asked mental health professionals how to spot an issue and what the options are when you do.
While we know there's no such thing as the perfect job, there are tools for both employees and managers to make work a better place to be. 1. Look for signs of declining mental health First, check-in with your body. Are you more tense than usual? Do you lose sleep or not eat as much? Even if you aren't the person experiencing poor mental health, you can be a good coworker by taking note of the five signs of emotional suffering.
Personality change in a way that seems drastic Agitation or uncharacteristically angry demeanor Withdrawn from social interaction Poor hygiene (substance abuse or physical hygiene) Feelings of hopelessness
These five signs from the national mental health non-profit Give an Hour are clear ways to determine if it's time to check in with your colleague or tend to your own mental health issues, says Hassel Aviles, the co-founder of Not 9 to 5, a global non-profit focusing on mental health advocacy for the foodservice and hospitality sector.
Life Kit
Burnout Isn't Just Exhaustion. Here's How To Deal With It
And you don't need to mark every item on this list – spotting even one could be a reason to check in with yourself or someone you care about. From there, do some triage and be honest with yourself.
Could it help to switch up some habits? Do you need to vent to a friend, get some more movement or minimize social media time? Or, is it time to raise a concern at the office?
2. Have a conversation with a trusted person who can introduce you to resources
After realizing that you need help, reach out to a colleague that you trust.
Sponsor Message
A loyal and reliable coworker can help you vent or think things through. If you need more help, a supervisor might be the best person to talk to, given they may be informed about resources that could help with mental health. Human resources can be a good option as well, but be mindful that HR typically has the company's best interest in mind, Adewale says.
If your employer is retaliating against you because of your mental health condition, you can contact the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to file a claim. One way to address your needs is to use the DEAR method in a meeting with HR, management or your trusted coworker.
D - Describe the situation using facts. E - Express how the situation made you feel or how it affected you. A - Assert your needs. R - Reinforce the outcome and how it will be a win-win.
Part two of this method follows the acronym MAN, and will help remind you of mindset in these conversations:
M - Be mindful of your words, and stay in the present moment. A - Be assertive. If you're raising a mental health issue at work, it's important for everyone involved, so stand your ground! N - Negotiate. Your office might not be able to shift to your ideal hours, but perhaps you could work together to set firmer boundaries for emails or start actually honoring lunch breaks. Work with your manager to find solutions.
Life Kit
How To Start Therapy
And remember, your boss or your coworker is not your therapist in this situation. If you get a burn or a cut at the office, you wouldn't expect your supervisor to know how to treat you, says Aviles. They are there to direct you to help. One resource your trusted person may point you to is an employee assistance program or EAP. This is a service that many companies have. It provides employees with a handful of therapy sessions at no charge.
Sponsor Message
3. Sometimes you need to take a break
If therapy isn't enough, it might help to take time off from work. It could be anywhere from one day to several months, but taking time to process, rest, heal and seek proper treatment can make all the difference.
A good start to pursuing this option is to ask your human resources department about short-term disability leave. Short-term disability leave allows you to take time off for a sickness or injury, including your mental health
Life Kit
You aren't lazy. You just need to slow down
Vermont journalist Siobhan Neela-Stock took over two months off work to heal from a less-than-ideal work environment. When she tweeted about it, she was flooded with positive responses. Some were from people who want to take time off from work and other notes were from people who had.
Neela-Stock says more and more people are discussing mental health leave as a viable option. "I guess the good thing about this silver lining is that we're, again, talking about it more and we're realizing that a lot of us are going through this. And, that there is a way out," Neela-Stock said. 4. Create a psychologically safe workplace The quickest path to mentally healthy workers is mentally healthy workspaces.
"Psychological safety" is a term coined by researcher Amy Edmondson. It focuses on the need to create safe environments at work, where people can share how they are actually doing without the threat of losing out on a promotion or big project. Aviles says employers and employees can create psychological safety anywhere–from an office to a kitchen. It all depends on if you're able to be vulnerable with each other.
Life Kit
Leadership At Work Is An Art Form. Here's How To Practice It.
Remember that It's also important to engage with your team by centering voices that are most affected by something. Employers don't need to have all of the answers, but they should be transparent and open to feedback. One last tip: It's okay to make mistakes. In a psychologically safe environment, an employee learns from their mistakes and uses the opportunity to grow. This is the opposite of the top-down approach where the boss chastises an employee for making mistakes. "And that is what creates innovation. That is what fosters creativity that is with us to really grow, that psychological safety in the workplace," says Aviles.
Sponsor Message
Resources Here's a non-exhaustive list of resources for workplace mental health:
The CDC offers a wealth of resources, including a glossary of terms and suggestions for managers. Did you know you can train in mental health first aid? Here's where to find training and mental health aid resources.  Made of Millions is a global mental health advocacy group that offers lots of training and resources. Here's their letter to your manager, and here's their global directory of resources. Not 9 to 5 is a global non-profit focusing on mental health advocacy in the foodservice and hospitality sectors. Their website offers a lot of great workplace mental health resources. Here's a breakdown of how to implement psychological safety in the workplace, from ShiftCollab, a therapy collective For an explanation of your rights in regards to mental health protection in the workplace, check out the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
The podcast portion of this story was produced by Andee Tagle. We'd love to hear from you. If you have a good life hack, leave us a voicemail at 202-216-9823 or email us at LifeKit@npr.org. Your tip could appear in an upcoming episode. If you love Life Kit and want more, subscribe to our newsletter.
Life Kit: Health
Life Kit: Life Skills
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor