Best Protein Powders in 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Wellness Fitness
Best Protein Powders in 2025
Looking to build muscle? Our experts tested top protein powders to find the best picks for your routine.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Article updated on February 26, 2025 at 5:00 AM PST
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
A protein supplement is a great way to help fill in nutritional gaps and support muscle growth. It's recommended that you get about 0.36 grams of protein per pound (0.8 grams per kilogram) of body weight daily. Getting that through food alone can be challenging, but a solid protein powder can help you up your protein intake. Let’s break down the best options to fuel your gains and keep you on track. Our Picks
Best complete plant-based protein powder Huel Complete Protein
Jump to details
$37 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best overall whey-based protein powder Ascent Native Fuel Whey Protein Powder
Jump to details
$40 at Target
Jump to details
Best unflavored whey-based protein powder Myprotein Impact Whey Isolate
Jump to details
$50 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best plant-based protein powder to buy in bulk Orgain Organic Protein Powder
Jump to details
$20 at Target
Jump to details
Best flavor variety protein powder Ghost Protein Powder
Jump to details
$30 at Target
Jump to details
Best sustainable whey-based protein powder Whey Forward
Jump to details
$30 at Myprotein
Jump to details
Show 1 more
Table of Contents
Best Protein Powders in 2025
Best overall protein powder
Best complete plant-based protein powder
Best overall whey-based protein powder
Best unflavored whey-based protein powder
Best plant-based protein powder to buy in bulk
Best flavor variety protein powder
Best sustainable whey-based protein powder
Other protein powders we tried
How we picked
Factors to consider
Protein powder FAQs
These are our top picks for best protein powders on the market. Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNETSome supplements on the market are sketchy, but there are safe and reliable options available, too. There are plenty of protein sources to choose from when selecting a good protein powder. Whey protein is a classic option, but plant protein is becoming a popular alternative as well.We tested multiple protein powders on the market to find the best options to support your fitness and nutrition goals. Check out our top picks below.Best overall protein powderWe took into consideration that some people will have plant-based and whey-based preferences when choosing a protein powder. The best plant-based protein powder we tested is the Huel Complete Protein. It has plenty of flavors to choose from and is made up of pea, faba and hemp powder. Our favorite whey-based protein powder is Ascent Native Fuel Whey Protein Powder because it's low-carb, doesn't have a weird aftertaste and no added sugars.
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best complete plant-based protein powder
Huel Complete Protein
Huel is a brand that I spotted in a social media ad and it piqued my interest because of the variety it has to offer. The company has several product lines, including protein shakes and powders as well as meal replacement shakes. Each product includes 27 essential vitamins and minerals, fatty acids, carbs and other nutrients. It's low-sugar and dairy-free.Huel's protein powder is made up of pea, faba and hemp powder. Even though the brand says its plant protein has a neutral flavor, I'd disagree because there is a distinct difference upon tasting it that makes it stand out compared to other plant-based proteins. After trying flavors from both the Black Edition and Complete Protein lines, I established that my favorite Huel flavor was the vanilla caramel flavor from the Complete Protein line. I blended it with iced coffee and oat milk and it tasted like a delicious specialty flavored iced latte you would order from your local coffee shop. I'm not even a fan of caramel, but I was impressed by the flavor profile and smooth consistency of the beverage. I also had no negative side effects and the aftertaste was minimal with this one.One serving of Huel's Complete Protein contains 20 grams of protein and 110 calories. This makes it an ideal drink to have post-workout or as a snack, but if you're looking for something to hold you over a little longer, Huel's Black Edition, Huel Powder and Ready-to-Drink options are considered complete meals, with 400 calories and extra protein.ProsVanilla Caramel flavor blends well with coffee and milkWell thought-out, plant-based formula across all Huel's productsIncludes probiotics, which is important for gut healthConsExpensive; it has to be acquired as part of a subscription or one-time purchase bundleFlavor isn't as consistent across the Complete Protein and Black Edition lineHemp and faba may not be a favored plant-based ingredient for everyone  ... Show more
Get it now
$37 at Amazon
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best overall whey-based protein powder
Ascent Native Fuel Whey Protein Powder
I'm particularly sensitive when it comes to whey-based protein powders, but was pleasantly surprised by Ascent's take on protein powder. I've used this whey protein isolate powder consistently over the past year and have found no negative side effects. Whey protein isolate powder is a refined form of protein powder, making it ideal if you are just looking for a powder in its purest form. Ascent's vanilla and chocolate flavors are delicious, stomach-friendly and have no weird aftertaste. They also blend well with other ingredients, such as fruits and leafy greens if you're looking to boost your protein shakes. Ascent's whey-based powders have 25 grams of protein per serving, consisting of 12 grams of essential amino acids (necessary for muscle health) and 2.7 grams of leucine (important to stimulate muscle growth). They're gluten-free and use stevia as a sweetener instead of sugar. If you're looking for a low-carb, no-added-sugar and easy-to-mix whey-based powder (with water or milk) then you'll love this product. ProsBlends well with different milks and waterNo negative gastrointestinal side effects during my testsGood flavored whey protein isolate optionConsExpensive for a two-pound bag and requires a subscription or one-time purchase on websiteNo price difference through third-party sellers Flavor variety is slightly lacking  ... Show more
Get it now
$40 at Target
$36 at Walmart
$50 at Amazon
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best unflavored whey-based protein powder
Myprotein Impact Whey Isolate
I like the option of having an unflavored protein powder because you can build your own flavor around it, without sacrificing the protein component. Myprotein's Impact Whey Isolate powder has the ideal profile to do just that. One serving of Myprotein Impact Whey Isolate has 23 grams of protein and is made up of 90 percent protein with less than one gram of carbohydrates. Myprotein's unflavored Impact Whey Isolate Powder is undetectable if you mix it with other ingredients, which is a good option if you typically don't like the aftertaste of some protein powders. You can also have it on its own by mixing it with water if you are simply taking the supplement to get extra protein into your diet. Another plus was that it didn't upset my stomach, which, for me, is always a risk with any whey-related products. For the more adventurous, Myprotein also offers many different flavors of its Impact Whey Isolate Powder. ProsIdeal for whoever wants protein in its purest formNo negative gastrointestinal side effects for the writerUnflavored variety allows you to blend different flavor profilesConsCan only be purchased through official siteExpensive  ... Show more
Get it now
$50 at Amazon
$80 at Myprotein
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best plant-based protein powder to buy in bulk
Orgain Organic Protein Powder
If you want a protein powder that is plant-based, reliable and can be bought in bulk, Orgain Organic Protein is your best bet. I've used this protein powder for over two years now and have only had a positive experience. The plant-based powder provides 21 grams of protein that's made up of pea, brown rice and chia seeds and contains 150 calories per serving. This protein powder can be found at Costco and is sold in bulk in about a three-pound
tub. This tub usually lasts me several months. The standard flavor I go with is Orgain's Creamy Chocolate Fudge because it tastes good as a blend on its own and mixes easily into oatmeal or yogurt. If you're a chocolate lover and follow a plant-based diet, you can't go wrong with this protein powder option. ProsAffordableExcellent tasteEasy to mix in milk, water or other basesConsLimited flavors available in bulkSome people might find chocolate too sweet  ... Show more
Get it now
$20 at Target
$24 at Amazon
$38 at Orgain
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best flavor variety protein powder
Ghost Protein Powder
Ghost's protein powder flavor variety brought me back to my childhood -- without all the extra sugar. Ghost is a lifestyle nutrition brand that's figured out how to turn popular cookie brands such as Chips Ahoy, Oreos and Nutter Butter into protein powders. Ghost's flavors are all whey-based and have a taste reminiscent of the real cookies. The Chips Ahoy flavor consists of real chocolate chips, the Nutter Butter version will appease any peanut butter lover, and the Oreo variety has actual pieces of the cookie in the powder. When I tried these, I kept it simple and mixed the powder with dairy-free milk and was delighted at how the flavors reminded me of my favorite cookies. Despite having 25 grams of protein a serving (and less than 6 grams of sugar), it doesn't remind me of a standard protein shake; instead it tastes like a milkshake. This product does include artificial sweeteners such as sucralose, so be mindful if your stomach tends to be sensitive when you consume these types of additives. I was also impressed by Ghost's vegan options like Chocolate Cereal Milk, which reminded me of the sweetened
leftover milk created by Cocoa Puffs cereal. Ghost's vegan proteins have 20 grams of protein per serving and are made up of pea, organic pumpkin and watermelon seed protein. I'd recommend Ghost's protein powders to someone who is bored with the traditional protein powder flavors. Compared to the other brands on the list, Ghost is the most creative with its flavors and also adds a nostalgic element by letting you relive your childhood breakfasts. ProsUnique flavor varietyHas whey and vegan optionsCreamy and full of flavorCan be found at third-party retailers for lessConsSome selections may be too sweet for some peopleArtificial sweeteners may cause gastrointestinal issues   ... Show more
Get it now
$30 at Target
$42 at Amazon
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best sustainable whey-based protein powder
Whey Forward
Myprotein's latest protein powder line, Whey Forward, has a unique twist. It created a whey-based protein that has animal-free dairy protein. To achieve this it fermented tiny organisms called microflora to convert them into dairy-identical protein. This makes the protein more sustainable and environmentally friendly since it was developed without the use of cows. So far Whey Forward has only three flavors: Decadent Chocolate Brownie, Creamy Mint Chocolate Chip and Rich Salted Caramel. It has 20 grams of protein per serving, and I was pleased with the flavor selections. Normally I gravitate toward chocolate-flavored powders, but among this line my favorites were the Creamy Mint Chocolate Chip and Rich Salted Caramel. I especially liked that the former had pieces of chocolate chip in the mixture. I found the flavors to be rich and creamy when blended, and they weren't overwhelmingly sweet. Another plus is that there was no bad aftertaste or gastrointestinal discomfort. Myprotein may be onto something by creating a whey-based protein in a more sustainable way. ProsEnvironmentally friendly formulaInexpensiveNo aftertasteConsLack of flavorsCan only be purchased through official retailerLess protein per serving than other whey-based protein powder  ... Show more
Get it now
$30 at Myprotein
Other protein powders we tried
Ladder Whey Protein: I tried blending Ladder's vanilla-flavored whey-based protein powder in my usual protein shake mix; unfortunately it was not my favorite. The ingredients left my drink grainy and the aftertaste overpowered the vanilla flavor of the powder. Ascent Plant-Based Protein Powder: I named Ascent's whey-based protein powder as one of my favorites on the list so I was excited to try its newest plant-based addition. This version did not taste as good as its whey counterpart, and I think the formula could use some improvement starting with its texture, which was on the thicker and grainier side.
How we picked
Flavor profile: We taste-tested to seeif the flavor is reminiscent of the real deal, such as chocolate or vanilla. In addition, we made sure there wasn't a bad aftertaste or negative texture to the beverage. Ingredients: We looked at ingredients to seeif they include additional minerals and nutrients to support the protein profile. We also checked for unnecessary or questionable additives. Grams of protein: We made sure that the products had at least 20 grams of protein per serving. Side effects: We observed whether gastrointestinal issues arose, because they can be a potential side effect to consuming supplements with whey or artificial sugars.
Factors to consider
Make sure to read the ingredient label on a bag of protein -- especially if you have lactose intolerance or a sensitivity to dairy or artificial sweeteners.Some protein powders can be expensive and come in big tubs and bags. Few brands offer sample sizes, which can be the downside to committing to a product you haven't yet tried.If you plan on purchasing online, check the return policy in case the protein is not the right match for you.Whey concentrate and whey isolate commonly make up whey-based proteins. The difference is in the way they are processed, with whey isolate having more protein but less fat and carbs. Plant-based protein main ingredients tend to be a mix of peas, brown rice, hemp, pumpkin seeds or soy.  Protein powder FAQs
What should you look for when shopping for protein powders?
The FDA doesn't regulate supplements, such as protein shakes and powders, but a good way to make sure you're getting a quality protein powder is by checking which brands are tested by third-party companies. These include NSF International or Informed Choice certifications.
Show more
Is whey-based protein powder better than plant-based ones?
Whey-based protein powder is isolated from whey and contains lactose. It is considered the gold standard for muscle growth because it is a complete protein, meaning it has all nine essential amino acids. Plant-based protein powder is only considered a complete protein if it is made up of soy. However there are many plant-based powders made up of peas, hemp and pumpkin that, when combined, form a complete protein with all essential amino acids and branched-chain amino acids. With plant-based powders, avoid ones that have added sugars or fillers. Also be mindful of any allergies or sensitivities to specific ingredients.
Show more
Do you need to drink protein powders?
It's important to remember that supplements are intended to support a balanced diet and should not be used as a substitute for real food. You don't need to drink protein powders if you are getting enough protein throughout the day. However, they're helpful if you need an on-the-go option to meet your protein quota.
Show more
Are there any negative side effects from taking protein powder?
If you're lactose intolerant or sensitive to dairy, whey-based protein powders may not be the best choice because they can upset your stomach. Additionally, some protein powders may contain artificial sweeteners or ingredients that may also cause bloating or other gastrointestinal issues, so it's important to read the nutrition labels first.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Fitness Guides
Fitness Equipment
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Exercise Bike
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Home Exercise Equipment
Best Smart Home Gym Workouts
Fitness Accessories
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Walking Shoes for Men
Best Walking Shoes for Women
Best Running Shoes for Men
Best Running Shoes for Women
Best Compression Socks
Best Foam Roller
Fitness Tech
Best Massage Gun
Best Smart Scale
Best Mirror Workout
Best Fitness Workout Apps
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors
Tonal Review
Theragun Review
Fitness Nutrition
Best Protein Powders
Best Protein Shakes
Fitness Supplements that Work
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Foods for Building Muscle
Best Weight Loss Programs
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.