Best Weight Loss Programs Of 2025 – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
weight loss
Best Weight Loss Programs Of 2025, Reviewed By A Dietitian
Audited & Verified: Apr 30, 2025, 5:28pm
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Written By
Christopher Groux
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Staff Editor
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Edited By
Sarah Davis
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and B...
See Full Bio
Staff Editor
Kara Burnstine, M.S., R.D.N., L.D.N., C.D.C.E.S.
Nutrition / Weight Loss / Diabetes / Cardiovascular Health / Gut Health
Kara Burnstine has over 20 years of experience in the nutrition field ranging from clinical nutrition, public health nutrition, pharmaceuticals and private practice. In her practice, Kara developed 21-Day Clean Eating Group Programs, coached private...
See Full Bio
Kara Burnstine, M.S., R.D.N., L.D.N., C.D.C.E.S.
Nutrition / Weight Loss / Diabetes / Cardiovascular Health / Gut Health
Kara Burnstine has over 20 years of experience in the nutrition field ranging from clinical nutrition, public health nutrition, pharmaceuticals and private practice. In her practice, Kara developed 21-Day Clean Eating Group Programs, coached private...
See Full Bio
Kara Burnstine, M.S., R.D.N., L.D.N., C.D.C.E.S.
Kara Burnstine, M.S., R.D.N., L.D.N., C.D.C.E.S.
Nutrition / Weight Loss / Diabetes / Cardiovascular Health / Gut Health
Kara Burnstine has over 20 years of experience in the nutrition field ranging from clinical nutrition, public health nutrition, pharmaceuticals and private practice. In her practice, Kara developed 21-Day Clean Eating Group Programs, coached private...
See Full Bio
Kara Burnstine, M.S., R.D.N., L.D.N., C.D.C.E.S.
Nutrition / Weight Loss / Diabetes / Cardiovascular Health / Gut Health
Kara Burnstine has over 20 years of experience in the nutrition field ranging from clinical nutrition, public health nutrition, pharmaceuticals and private practice. In her practice, Kara developed 21-Day Clean Eating Group Programs, coached private...
See Full Bio
Expert Reviewed
|
Nutrition / Weight Loss / Diabetes / Cardiovascu...
& 2 others
Audited & Verified: Apr 30, 2025, 5:28pm
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Commercial weight loss programs have long been a popular option for those looking to shed a few pounds or manage their weight, but recently, they’ve evolved dramatically—particularly with the availability of GLP-1 medications such as Ozempic and Wegovy.
While some programs combine these new medications with eating plans, others focus on food choices and behavioral changes for trimming down and adopting healthier eating habits.
It’s always best to consult a health care professional before starting your weight loss journey, but weight loss programs may provide some additional structure on top of that professional advice. Your first challenge may be deciding on the best weight loss program for you.
To help jump-start your search, Forbes Health editors consulted a panel of nutrition and weight loss experts for their top commercial weight loss program recommendations. The top two programs on our list received two recommendations each, and the rest had at least one recommendation.
Read on to learn more about the top weight loss programs, as recommended by our panel of experts.
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on expert recommendations and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about weight loss that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines for the rankings below.
Three diet and nutrition experts consulted
Programs that focused on behavioral change, and not just cutting calories, strongly considered
Top programs were recommended by two experts
Show More
Weight Loss Support And Advice
Best Diets
FDA-Approved Weight Loss Medication
How To Reduce Body Fat
Protein Powder For Weight Loss
Weight Loss Supplements
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
Best Weight Loss Programs of 2025: Costs, Pros and Cons
Weight Watchers
Noom
Atkins
The Mayo Clinic Diet
Found
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Weight Loss Programs of 2025
What Is a Commercial Weight Loss Program?
The Pros and Cons of Weight Loss Programs
How to Find the Best Weight Loss Program
Does Medicare Cover Weight Loss Programs?
How Much Do Weight Loss Programs Cost?
Summary: Compare the Best Weight Loss Programs of 2025
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Weight Loss by HersHers customers report losing over 9 lbs in their first month Save 30% on average with FSA / HSA Compounded products starting at $199/mo w/ 12-mo planOngoing care via app, no extra cost100% online, no insurance required	Get Started	On Hers' Website
Best Weight Loss Programs of 2025: Costs, Pros and Cons
Best for Diet Flexibility: WeightWatchers
Best Psychology-Based Program: Noom
Best Low-Carb Weight Loss Program: Atkins
Best Program for Long-Term Sustainability: The Mayo Clinic Diet
Best Physician-Focused Program: Found
Best for Diet Flexibility	WeightWatchersMain program cost: $23 per month membership, plus $20 starter fee for one-month plan, then $23 per month for membershipPlan length: One, six or 12 monthsPrimary focus of the program: To help users lose and maintain weight using healthy habits via a Points system, in-person meetings and digital tools Free trial: 30 days for Digital Core plan Mobile app: Available for iOS and AndroidOther programs offered: Weight loss medications, workshops, Abbott diabetes plan 	Learn More	On WeightWatcher's Website Expert’s TakeWeightWatchers made its name in the weight loss world through its unique point system in which foods are assigned points based on their nutritional value. While that may sound restrictive, the program continues to evolve its methodologies to be more tailored to one’s individual needs. Members can also easily track their points and connect with other members via a dedicated smartphone app.“The WeightWatchers program continues to follow the latest research and evolve its program to meet the nutritional needs of the individual,” explains Toby Amidor, a registered dietitian, nutrition expert, food safety consultant, author and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. In addition to its commitment to staying up to date on the latest science around behavior change and nutrition, Amidor recommends the WeightWatchers program because “no food is off limits, and the program is based on individualized consumer plans.”WeightWatchers is centered on behavioral modification, which is why Adrienne Youdim, M.D., a California-based internist who specializes in medical weight loss and clinical nutrition and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member, also recommends it. While the program is “beneficial on its own,” notes Dr. Youdim, it has also been shown to improve weight loss when combined with medical intervention and weight loss drugs, she continues. She notes how helpful the self-monitoring, group support and mindfulness skills WeightWatchers employs can be for habit change.Additionally, the new WeightWatchers Clinic incorporates physician-led plans that include weight loss medications for qualifying WeightWatchers members.	Pros & ConsRecommended by two Forbes Health Advisory Board membersFeatures a network of members to interact withOffers in-person workshopsAccess to insurance-covered dietitiansWorkshops may require drives, even in populated areasNot designed for fast resultsPoints system may be hard to follow for some individuals
Best Psychology-Based Program	NoomMain program cost: A four-month subscription plan (which most users start with, according to the company) is $42.25 a monthPlan length: 16 weeks, then ongoing at user’s discretion Primary focus of the program: To help users achieve and maintain a healthy weight with lifestyle changes via a psychology-backed program and a personalized daily calorie target Free trial: NoMobile app: Available for iOS and AndroidOther programs offered: Noom Med, Noom Mood, Noom for Employers	Learn More	On Noom's Website Expert’s TakeNoom takes a psychological approach to weight loss, establishing a unique program rooted in behavioral science. It encourages members to form a healthy relationship with food and to be more mindful of their dietary choices. Noom has its own calorie tracking system, as well as personalized lessons and access to one-on-one support.“Noom helps you better understand your relationship with food, how to be more mindful of your habits and gives you the knowledge and support you need for long-lasting change,” explains Taylor Wallace, Ph.D., principal and CEO of the Think Healthy Group, a food science and nutrition research firm, and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member. He recommends Noom to anyone who feels they do better when coached, or those who have difficulties with personal accountability.“I recommend Noom to my patients as an adjunct to lifestyle therapy and pharmacotherapy,” adds Dr. Youdim, who says Noom’s comprehensive approach to weight loss (cognitive behavioral therapy, positive psychology and self-monitoring) is effective.Similar to the WeightWatchers Clinic, Noom Med is a new program that combines telehealth services and weight loss medications with Noom’s personalized psychological tools. It’s available to all qualifying members.	Pros & ConsRecommended by two Forbes Health Advisory Board membersNoom color coding system organizes food by calorie count but doesn’t outright ban specific foodsOffers a unique weight loss method focused on psychologyNoom community features enable interaction with other membersHigh cost compared to some other weight loss programsLogging all meals and snacks may be time-consumingCoaching is virtual and may not appeal to some
Best Low-Carb Weight Loss Program	AtkinsCost: There is technically no cost, but Atkins-made meals are available. Pre-made food prices vary, but range from $8.49 for four protein shakes to $22 for an eight-count box of protein chipsPlan length: Varies based on weight loss goals Primary focus of the program: Weight loss achieved through a lower-carb dietFree trial: NoMobile app: Available for iOS and AndroidOther programs offered: Atkins 40 and Atkins 100 are offered in addition to Atkins 20 Expert’s TakeUnlike many of the subscription-based weight loss programs on this list, Atkins offers a simple low-carb diet plan that allows users to pay as much or as little as they desire. It comes in three different tiers—Atkins 20, Atkins 40 and Atkins 100—based on your body’s optimal carbohydrate intake. Atkins emerges as a no-frills option for people with relatively high dietary discipline. “I like Atkins because it is less restrictive than most keto or low-carb diets that have you avoid certain food groups (like fruits), which we all know isn’t a good idea,” explains Dr. Wallace. “A low-carb diet focuses on limited carbohydrates to help the body burn fat instead of sugar for fuel,” he says. 	Pros & ConsThree easy plan options tailored to different weight loss goalsNo subscription pricing, pay per mealLogging and calorie counting isn’t requiredFree online group supportLack of formal structure may not be for everyoneCost of official Atkins meals can quickly balloon if not searching for the best dealsNot as much freedom to pick your meals if following strictly
Best Program for Long-Term Sustainability	The Mayo Clinic DietCost: $49.99 per month, $99 for six months, $149 for 12 monthsPlan length: Monthly, six months or 12 monthsPrimary focus of the program: Weight loss achieved via personalized meal plans, trackers and guidance using medical and nutritional expertise from Mayo ClinicFree trial: NoMobile app: Available for iOS and AndroidOther programs offered: Mayo Clinic Diet for Heart Health, Mayo Clinic Diet for Weight-Loss Medications, Mayo Clinic Diet for Diabetes	Learn More	On Mayo Clinic Diet's Website Expert’s TakeThe Mayo Clinic Diet has a lineage tracing back nearly 80 years, offering a practical approach to weight loss that emphasizes whole-food nutrition, verified scientific principles and the backing of expert support. It’s less reliant on calorie counting and instead places emphasis on personalized meal plans and a smartphone app with exercise routines, ebooks, optional group coaching and more.“This program is designed to help lose excess weight and find a healthy way of eating that is sustainable for a lifetime,” explains Dr. Wallace. “It also teaches [users] to enjoy good nutrition.”	Pros & ConsBased on Mayo Clinic scientific research and expertiseMeat-free and reduced-meat meal plans availableWhole-food nutrition with no calorie countingEight simple meal plans to address a variety of needsNo vegan meal planWhole-food diets require home cooking and add to costRefund policy is extremely limited
Best Physician-Focused Program	FoundCost: Starts at $99 per month without insurancePlan length: Unclear, but appears to be as long as a user desiresPrimary focus of the program: Weight loss via individualized, medically guided programs that include personal consultations with medical professionals and possible addition of medications like Ozempic, Wegovy, Mounjaro and othersFree trial: NoMobile app: iOS and AndroidOther programs offered: N/A Expert’s TakeFound is a weight loss program based on proven medications and personalized clinical care. It’s designed to help an individual “address weight at the cellular level, says Dr. Youdim, who recommends Found because it’s “an evidence-based program” that employs board-certified weight loss physicians who can prescribe FDA-approved weight loss drugs in the appropriate circumstances. “They also incorporate behavioral counseling and individual coaching,” Dr. Youdim adds.	Pros & ConsAbility to prescribe weight loss medication as necessaryAccess to board-certified clinicians and coachesOnline community of members to aid your weight loss journeyOne-on-one attention from health coachesProgram emphasizes medication over traditional points and dietingHigh out-of-pocket costsNo in-person components
Meet Our PanelistsAdrienne Youdim, M.D., F.A.C.P.Weight Loss / Nutrition Adrienne Youdim, M.D., F.A.C.P.Weight Loss / Nutrition Dr. Adrienne Youdim is an internist who specializes in medical weight loss and clinical nutrition. Taylor Wallace, Ph.D., C.F.S., F.A.C.N.NutritionTaylor Wallace, Ph.D., C.F.S., F.A.C.N.NutritionTaylor Wallace is principal and CEO of Think Healthy Group and a nutrition and food studies professor at Tufts University. Toby Amidor, M.S., R.D., C.D.N, F.A.N.DAdvisory Board Member
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Weight Loss Programs of 2025
To find the best weight loss programs of 2025, the Forbes Health editorial team worked with our expert panelists to evaluate a wide range of commercial weight loss programs. The winners included on this list were recommended by at least two Forbes Health Advisory Board members. Star ratings were intentionally omitted due to the fact that weight loss, and the methods that inspire it, vary greatly based on personal health history and preferences.
What Is a Commercial Weight Loss Program?
Commercial weight loss programs can take many forms including calorie-counting plans, pre-packaged meals and mindfulness routines that attempt to change one’s relationship with food. While many modern programs, such as WeightWatchers and Noom, are purchased through a subscription plan, some, like Atkins, operate through the purchase of bespoke meals. Below, you’ll learn how these programs use simple dietary philosophies to encourage weight loss.
How Weight Loss Programs Work
Most popular weight loss programs work by utilizing methods that create a calorie deficit. In simple terms, this means burning more calories than you consume.
“For example, the Atkins Diet focuses on reducing carbohydrate intake and therefore lowering overall calorie intake,” explains Mascha Davis, a registered dietitian nutritionist, author of “Eat Your Vegetables” and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “Weight Watchers (WW) uses a point system to track food, promoting portion control while allowing flexibility in food choices.”
“The most commonly used strategies revolve around calorie control,” adds Brittany Werner, a registered dietitian and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “Participants are often encouraged to track their intake (with calories, macronutrients or points) to bring awareness to your intake.” Other programs, such as Noom, take a more psychological approach that explores one’s relationship with food, focusing on behavioral change.
More recently, programs like WeightWatchers, Noom, Found and Mayo Clinic Diet have incorporated GLP-1 medications to assist in the weight loss process. These add-ons to the traditional program connect users to clinicians who can prescribe generic compounded semaglutide or brand-name formulas such as Ozempic. Because a prescription is required, this route is costly compared to traditional weight loss programs.
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Noom Sustainable Weight Loss ProgramPrioritizes a balanced relationship with foodUses a quiz to create a custom plan and estimated timelineWeight, food and exercise logging tool to manage your health$70/mo or $209/year with alternate options availableOver 45 million downloads and 45k+ 5-star reviews	Take Quiz	On Noom's Website
The Pros and Cons of Weight Loss Programs
As popular and effective as some commercial weight loss programs may be, there are pros and cons to these plans that people should be aware of. On the plus side, “they provide clear guidelines and structure,” says Davis, “and they may include accountability measures, such as check-ins and tracking, which can help with consistency.”
With regard to downsides, however, both Werner and Davis agree that the lack of personalization in commercial weight loss programs may present a problem for some people. For example, because these programs don’t consider a person’s medical history, prescription medications or one’s potential history with eating disorders, they may be harmful without medical supervision. Both experts also note a lack of long-term, peer-reviewed research on many commercial weight loss methods means that proven scientific backing remains limited.
In practice, there’s the additional challenge of sticking to the routine on your own. “Some popular programs promote very rigid and restrictive guidelines that are challenging to maintain long term,” adds Werner, which can make the weight loss process more overwhelming than it needs to be.
Following these programs can be exceptionally difficult for those who love going out to eat, adds Neel Raval, M.D., a board-certified sports medicine physician and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “For instance, if someone is on a strict keto diet, going out to an Italian restaurant with friends might pose some difficulties as to what to order,” he says. “Additionally, if someone particularly enjoys a hearty pasta or pizza, it can be difficult to be forced to give that up for good.”
Many of these potential challenges can be mitigated through dedication and personalized help from a health care professional, but they’re worth knowing before starting your weight loss journey.
Is a Weight Loss Program Right for You?
Given the positives and negatives associated with commercial weight loss programs, it may be tough to decide if they offer the best weight loss method for you. Our board members suggest that understanding your personal level of discipline is essential to answering that question.
“The people who do well on programs like these can maintain strict discipline about the types of foods they eat and tend to prepare most of their food at home, so they have a complete understanding of what they are eating,” explains Dr. Raval. “People who should consider other avenues [are] those who eat out a lot, do not want to give up specific foods [or] are looking for more flexibility in their diet,” he says.
Our experts also agree that those with a history of eating disorders or specialized medical conditions are best served by working with a health care professional, such as a registered dietitian. If a certain level of discipline is not desired or possible, commercial weight loss programs may not be an ideal fit.
How to Find the Best Weight Loss Program
Davis, Werner and Dr. Raval suggest considering these four factors to help you find the best weight loss program for your personal needs.
Method and sustainability: Consider which program meshes with your lifestyle. Do you want predefined meals or do you prefer flexibility?
Long-term appeal: Alongside the basic dietary arrangement, it’s important to consider a method you can sustain over a long period of time. Proper weight loss is rarely a fast process, so choose something you could feasibly support long-term.
The goal of your weight loss: If you’re just looking to lose weight, sustainability should be a top factor. However, if you’d like to change body composition, like decreasing body fat or maintaining muscle mass, diets such as keto or paleo that work well when paired with strength training, may be best.
Professional help: Your weight loss journey should always be monitored by a health care professional such as a registered dietitian. This can be a professional you choose or one provided by the weight loss program. Regardless, a personalized plan can be an effective option.
Does Medicare Cover Weight Loss Programs?
Medicare generally does not cover weight loss programs, medications or surgeries. If your body mass index (BMI) is 30 or more, Medicare will, however, cover obesity screenings and behavioral counseling.
Does Private Insurance Cover Weight Loss Programs?
WeightWatchers, Noom and Found all have potential avenues for health insurance coverage, but individual providers may not cover certain programs. Reach out to each service to see if your health insurance is accepted.
How Much Do Weight Loss Programs Cost?
A commercial weight loss program can cost anywhere from $20 to $99 per month based on the style of program you choose. Point- and tracking-based programs tend to be a bit more affordable, while programs supported by medication or premade meals might be more costly. Especially if you’re seeking medication, working through insurance may be the less expensive choice.
How to Save Money on Weight Loss Programs
Many weight loss methods can be cost prohibitive for some. Here are a few ways to save money.
Private insurance: While Medicare coverage of weight loss programs remains limited, private insurers might cover your chosen program. Consultant your insurer, and a representative of the program, to confirm coverage.
Free trials and coupons: This path is also limited, but some weight loss programs, such as WeightWatchers, offer free trials or promotions for new members. You may also find coupons for weight loss programs on popular coupon websites as well. Promotions are often most plentiful at the start of a new calendar year, a time when many people consider establishing new weight loss goals.
Economical food choices: If you’re on a meal plan, take a look at what some of the portioned meals offered and create your own versions with help from a professional. From there, you can leverage low-cost options like buying frequently used items in bulk or purchasing canned foods. Especially if a professional provides guidance, there’s plenty of potential to improvise with low-cost alternatives.
A Personalized Path To Your Perfect Body
Simple Life can help you take control your weight loss journey without having to give up the food you love.
Get Started
On Simple Life's Website
Summary: Compare the Best Weight Loss Programs of 2025
WeightWatchers
Learn MoreOn WeightWatcher's Website
Best for Diet Flexibility
Noom
Learn MoreOn Noom's Website
Best Psychology-Based Program
Atkins
View More
Best Low-Carb Weight Loss Program
The Mayo Clinic Diet
Learn MoreOn Mayo Clinic Diet's Website
Best Program for Long-Term Sustainability
Found
View More
Best Physician-Focused Program
PRODUCT
BEST FOR
LEARN MORE
WeightWatchers
Best for Diet Flexibility
Learn MoreOn WeightWatcher's Website
Noom
Best Psychology-Based Program
Learn MoreOn Noom's Website
Atkins
Best Low-Carb Weight Loss Program
View More
The Mayo Clinic Diet
Best Program for Long-Term Sustainability
Learn MoreOn Mayo Clinic Diet's Website
Found
Best Physician-Focused Program
View More
See More See Less
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What is the easiest weight loss program available?
“It’s important to recognize the truth that sustainable behavior change is never going to be easy,” says Werner. “The best, most effective and sustainable way to lose body fat is to follow a nutrition plan you can stick to long term. Avoid the over-restrictive plans that make life challenging to balance, and lean into a program that offers support, evidence-based practices and a sustainable approach to lifelong wellness,” she adds.
Is there a free weight loss program?
Many meal-based programs, such as the Atkins Diet, could be considered free because they don’t require a subscription or fees. While you can buy official Atkins-branded meals if you choose, they are not required. In that sense, the only cost of the program is the groceries you buy.
What should I do if I can't lose weight?
If you absolutely can’t lose weight, Davis recommends seeking personalized assistance from a health care professional, such as a registered dietitian, who can help you focus on sustainable behavioral changes. In addition, consider these five tips:
Aim to fill half of your plate with produce.
Get at least 150 minutes of movement per week and seven to nine hours of quality sleep per night.
Swap high-fat proteins for leaner options like chicken breast, fish, tofu or beans.
Increase your fiber intake to 25 to 35 grams per day with whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables.
Consult a doctor to test for potential hormonal issues, such as thyroid imbalances, that could be affecting your progress.
Sources
References
Obesity behavioral therapy.
Medicare. Accessed 3/18/2025.
Next Up In Weight Loss
FDA-Approved Weight Loss Medications
Best Diets
Top Weight Loss Supplements
Semaglutide For Weight Loss
Ozempic For Weight Loss
Wegovy For Weight Loss
Mounjaro For Weight Loss
Metformin For Weight Loss
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on
the latest games or watching a classic slasher film. Above all else, he’s an entertainment enthusiast with a passion
for helping the disability community in any way he can.
Sarah Davis
Staff Editor
Sarah is an experienced writer and editor enthusiastic about helping readers live their healthiest and happiest lives. Before joining Forbes Health, Sarah worked as a writer for various digital publications including LendingTree, theSkimm, CNBC and Bankrate. When she isn’t writing or editing, you can find Sarah with her nose in a book or enjoying the outdoors with her French bulldog, Honey.
Kara Burnstine, M.S., R.D.N., L.D.N., C.D.C.E.S.
Nutrition / Weight Loss / Diabetes / Cardiovascular Health / Gut Health
Kara Burnstine has over 20 years of experience in the nutrition field ranging from clinical nutrition, public health nutrition, pharmaceuticals and private practice. In her practice, Kara developed 21-Day Clean Eating Group Programs, coached private clients in weight loss, cardiovascular disease, gut health and autoimmune diseases and utilized motivational interviewing and behavior modification strategies to facilitate habits that create permanent lifestyle changes.
Currently, Kara is the owner and founder of Nutrition Your Weigh, Inc.—a concierge nutrition consulting firm specializing in weight loss, diabetes, gut and heart health, as well as corporate wellness. She is also a registered nutritionist and certified diabetes educator at Pritikin Longevity Center in Miami.
Weight Loss Support And Advice
Best Diets
FDA-Approved Weight Loss Medication
How To Reduce Body Fat
Protein Powder For Weight Loss
Weight Loss Supplements
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise