Boris Yeltsin - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Early life, education and early career
Toggle Early life, education and early career subsection
1.1
1931–1948: childhood and adolescence
1.2
1949–1960: university and career in construction
2
CPSU career
Toggle CPSU career subsection
2.1
1960–1975: early membership of the Communist Party
2.2
1976–1985: First Secretary of Sverdlovsk Oblast
2.3
1985: relocation to Moscow to become Head of Gorkom
2.4
1987: resignation
3
President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic
Toggle President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic subsection
3.1
1991: presidential election
4
President of the Russian Federation
Toggle President of the Russian Federation subsection
4.1
1991–1996: first term
4.1.1
Radical reforms
4.1.2
Confrontation with parliament
4.1.3
Relations with NATO
4.1.4
Chechnya
4.1.5
Norwegian rocket incident
4.1.6
Privatization and the rise of "the oligarchs"
4.1.7
Korean Air Lines Flight 007
4.1.8
1996 presidential election
4.2
1996–1999: Second term
4.2.1
Attempted 1999 impeachment
4.2.2
Mabetex corruption
4.2.3
Resignation
5
Electoral history
6
Heart disease and alcoholism
7
Life after resignation
8
Death and funeral
9
Ideology
10
Personal life
11
Reception and legacy
Toggle Reception and legacy subsection
11.1
Public opinion in Russia
12
Honors and awards
13
See also
14
Notes
15
References
16
Sources and further reading
17
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Boris Yeltsin
134 languages
AfrikaansአማርኛАԥсшәаالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAymar aruAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলা閩南語 / Bân-lâm-gíБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)Bikol CentralБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegБуряадCatalàЧӑвашлаČeštinaChiTumbukaCymraegDanskالدارجةDavvisámegiellaDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFøroysktFrançaisGaeilgeGaelgGalegoГӀалгӀай客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HausaՀայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoBahasa IndonesiaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתJawaქართულიҚазақшаKernowekKiswahiliKurdîКыргызчаລາວLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLimburgsLombardMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംMaltiमराठीმარგალურიمصرىمازِرونیBahasa MelayuMinangkabauМонголNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanОлык марийOʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPiemontèisPolskiPortuguêsQırımtatarcaRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийСаха тылаScotsShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСловѣньскъ / ⰔⰎⰑⰂⰡⰐⰠⰔⰍⰟŚlůnskiکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча / tatarçaไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУдмуртУкраїнськаاردوVènetoVepsän kel’Tiếng ViệtVolapükWinaray吴语Yorùbá粵語Žemaitėška中文Tolışi
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikinewsWikiquoteWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
President of Russia from 1991 to 1999
"Yeltsin" redirects here. For the name, see Yeltsin (name).
Boris YeltsinБорис ЕльцинOfficial portrait, 1992President of RussiaIn office25 December 1991 – 31 December 1999[a]Prime Minister
Himself (interim)
Yegor Gaidar (acting)
Viktor Chernomyrdin
Sergey Kiriyenko
Viktor Chernomyrdin (acting)
Yevgeny Primakov
Sergei Stepashin
Vladimir Putin
Vice PresidentAlexander Rutskoy (1991–1993)Preceded by
Office established;
Himself (as President of the Russian SFSR)
Mikhail Gorbachev (as President of the Soviet Union)
Succeeded byVladimir PutinInterim Head of Government of the Russian SFSR / Russian FederationIn office15 November 1991 – 15 June 1992PresidentHimselfDeputyAlexander ShokhinViktor ChernomyrdinSergey ShakhrayMikhail PoltoraninValery MakharadzeGeorgy KhizhaAnatoly ChubaisBoris SaltykovFirst DeputyGennady BurbulisYegor GaidarVladimir ShumeykoPreceded byPosition establishedIvan Silayev (as Premier of the Soviet Union)Oleg Lobov (as Acting Premier of the Russian SFSR)Succeeded byYegor Gaidar (acting)President of the Russian SFSRIn office10 July 1991 – 25 December 1991PresidentMikhail GorbachevPrime Minister
Ivan Silayev
Oleg Lobov (acting)
Himself (de facto)
Preceded byHimself (as Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR)Succeeded byHimself (as President of Russia)Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSRIn office29 May 1990 – 10 July 1991Preceded byVitaly Vorotnikov (as Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR)Succeeded byRuslan KhasbulatovFirst Secretary of the Moscow City Committee of the Communist PartyIn office23 December 1985 – 11 November 1987Preceded byViktor GrishinSucceeded byLev Zaykov
Personal detailsBorn(1931-02-01)1 February 1931Butka, Ural Oblast, Soviet UnionDied23 April 2007(2007-04-23) (aged 76)Moscow, RussiaResting placeNovodevichy CemeteryPolitical party
CPSU (1961–1990)
Independent (after 1990)
Spouse
Naina Girina ​(m. 1956)​Children2, including Tatyana YumashevaAlma materUral State Technical UniversitySignature
Boris Yeltsin's voice
Yeltsin's 1999 New Year's address and resignation speechRecorded 31 December 1999
Central institution membership
1986–1988: Candidate member, 26th, 27th Politburo
1985–1986: Member, 26th Secretariat
1981–1990: Full member, 26th, 27th Central Committee
Other offices held
1992: Minister, Defence
1976–1985: First Secretary, Sverdlovsk Regional Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union
Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin[b][c] (1 February 1931 – 23 April 2007) was a Russian politician and statesman who served as President of Russia from 1991 to 1999. He was a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) from 1961 to 1990. He later stood as a political independent, during which time he was viewed as being ideologically aligned with liberalism.
Yeltsin was born in Butka, Ural Oblast. Growing up in Kazan and Berezniki, he worked in construction after studying at the Ural State Technical University. After joining the Communist Party, he rose through its ranks, and in 1976, he became First Secretary of the party's Sverdlovsk Oblast committee. Yeltsin was initially a supporter of the perestroika reforms of Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. He later criticized the reforms as being too moderate and called for a transition to a multi-party representative democracy. In 1987, he was the first person to resign from the Politburo of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, which established his popularity as an anti-establishment figure and after which he earned the reputation of the leader of the anti-communist movement. In 1990, he was elected chair of the Russian Supreme Soviet and in 1991 was elected president of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR), becoming the first popularly-elected head of state in Russian history. Yeltsin allied with various non-Russian nationalist leaders and was instrumental in the formal dissolution of the Soviet Union in December of that year. With the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the RSFSR became the Russian Federation, an independent state. Through that transition, Yeltsin remained in office as president. He was later re-elected in the 1996 Russian presidential election, which critics claimed to be pervasively corrupt.
Yeltsin oversaw the transition of Russia's command economy into a capitalist market economy by implementing economic shock therapy, market exchange rate of the ruble, nationwide privatization, and lifting of price controls. Economic downturn, volatility, and inflation ensued. Amid the economic shift, a small number of oligarchs obtained most of the national property and wealth, while international monopolies dominated the market. A constitutional crisis emerged in 1993 after Yeltsin ordered the unconstitutional dissolution of the Russian parliament, leading parliament to impeach him. The crisis ended after troops loyal to Yeltsin stormed the parliament building and stopped an armed uprising; he then introduced a new constitution which significantly expanded the powers of the president. After the crisis, Yeltsin governed the country in a rule by decree until 1994, as the Supreme Soviet of Russia was absent. Secessionist sentiment in the Russian Caucasus led to the First Chechen War, War of Dagestan, and Second Chechen War between 1994 and 1999. Internationally, Yeltsin promoted renewed collaboration with Europe and signed arms control agreements with the United States. Amid growing internal pressure, he resigned by the end of 1999 and was succeeded as president by his chosen successor, Vladimir Putin, whom he had appointed prime minister a few months earlier. After leaving office, he kept a low profile and was accorded a state funeral upon his death in 2007.
Domestically, Yeltsin was highly popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s, although his reputation was damaged by the economic and political crises of his presidency, and he left office widely unpopular with the Russian population. He received praise and criticism for his role in dismantling the Soviet Union, transforming Russia into a representative democracy, and introducing new political, economic, and cultural freedoms to the country. Conversely, he was accused of economic mismanagement, abuse of presidential power, autocratic behavior, corruption, and of undermining Russia's standing as a major world power.
Early life, education and early career[edit]
Yeltsin (second from left) with childhood friends
This article is part ofa series aboutBoris Yeltsin
Personal
Early life
1989 United States visit
Death and state funeral
CPSU membership
26th Politburo
27th Politburo
26th Central Committee
27th Central Committee
28th Congress
President of Russia
Presidency
Gaidar Cabinet
First Chernomyrdin Cabinet
Inaugurations
first
second
International trips
Tenure
1991 coup attempt
Yeltsin–Gaidar government reforms
Constitutional conference
1993 crisis
First Chechen War
Circling over Shannon diplomatic incident
1998 financial crisis
Second Chechen War
Presidential campaigns
1991
election
1996
election
vote or lose
loans for shares scheme
Seven Bankers
Soskovets strategy
Xerox affair
Legacy
Presidential Center
Presidential Library
Yekaterinburg monument
vte
1931–1948: childhood and adolescence[edit]
Boris Yeltsin was born on 1 February 1931 in the village of Butka, Ural Oblast, then in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, one of the republics of the Soviet Union.[1] His family, who were ethnic Russians, had lived in this area of the Urals since at least the eighteenth century.[2] His father, Nikolai Yeltsin, had married his mother, Klavdiya Vasilyevna Starygina, in 1928.[3] Yeltsin always remained closer to his mother than to his father;[4] the latter beat his wife and children on various occasions.[5]
The Soviet Union was then under the leadership of Joseph Stalin, who led the one-party state governed by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU). Seeking to transform the country into a socialist society according to Marxist–Leninist doctrine, in the late 1920s Stalin's government had initiated a project of mass rural collectivisation coupled with dekulakization. As a prosperous farmer, Yeltsin's paternal grandfather, Ignatii, was accused of being a kulak in 1930. His farm, which was in Basmanovo (also known as Basmanovskoye), was confiscated, and he and his family were forced to reside in a cottage in nearby Butka.[6] There, Nikolai and Ignatii's other children were allowed to join the local kolkhoz (collective farm), but Ignatii himself was not; he and his wife, Anna, were exiled in 1934 to Nadezhdinsk,[7] where he died two years later.[8]
As an infant, Yeltsin was christened in the Russian Orthodox Church;[1] his mother was devout, and his father unobservant.[9] In the years after his birth, the area was hit by the famine of 1932–1933;[10] throughout his childhood, Yeltsin was often hungry.[11] In 1932, Yeltsin's parents moved to Kazan,[12] where Yeltsin attended kindergarten.[13] There, in 1934, the OGPU state security services arrested Nikolai, accused him of anti-Soviet agitation, and sentenced him to three years in the Dmitrov labor camp.[14] Yeltsin and his mother then were ejected from their residence and were taken in by friends; Klavdiya worked at a garment factory in her husband's absence.[15] In October 1936, Nikolai returned; in July 1937, the couple's second child, Mikhail, was born.[16] That month, they moved to Berezniki, in Perm Krai, where Nikolai got work on a potash combine project.[17] In July 1944, they had a third child, Valentina.[18]
Between 1939 and 1945, Yeltsin received a primary education at Berezniki's Railway School Number 95.[13] Academically, he did well at primary school and was repeatedly elected class monitor by fellow pupils.[19] There, he also took part in activities organized by the Komsomol and Vladimir Lenin All-Union Pioneer Organization.[20] This overlapped with Soviet involvement in the Second World War, during which Yeltsin's paternal uncle, Andrian, served in the Red Army and was killed.[21] From 1945 to 1949, Yeltsin studied at the municipal secondary school number 1, also known as Pushkin High School.[22] Yeltsin did well at secondary school,[23] and there took an increasing interest in sports, becoming captain of the school's volleyball squad.[24] He enjoyed playing pranks and in one instance played with a grenade, which blew off the thumb and index finger of his left hand.[25] With friends, he would go on summer walking expeditions in the adjacent taiga, sometimes for many weeks.[26]
1949–1960: university and career in construction[edit]
In September 1949, Yeltsin was admitted to the Ural Polytechnic Institute (UPI) in Sverdlovsk.[27] He took the stream in industrial and civil engineering, which included courses in maths, physics, materials and soil science, and draftsmanship.[28] He was also required to study Marxist–Leninist doctrine and choose a language course, for which he selected German, although never became adept at it.[28] Tuition was free and he was provided a small stipend to live on, which he supplemented by unloading railway trucks for a small wage.[29] Academically, he achieved high grades,[30] although temporarily dropped out in 1952 when afflicted with tonsillitis and rheumatic fever.[31] He devoted much time to athletics,[32] and joined the UPI volleyball team.[33] He avoided any involvement in political organizations while there.[32] During the summer 1953 break, he traveled across the Soviet Union, touring the Volga, central Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, and Georgia; much of the travel was achieved by hitchhiking on freight trains.[34] It was at UPI that he began a relationship with Naina Iosifovna Girina, a fellow student who would later become his wife.[35] Yeltsin completed his studies in June 1955.[31]
Leaving the Ural Polytechnic Institute, Yeltsin was assigned to work with the Lower Iset Construction Directorate in Sverdlovsk; at his request, he served the first year as a trainee in various building trades.[36] He quickly rose through the organization's ranks. In June 1956 he was promoted to foreman (master), and in June 1957 was promoted again, to the position of work superintendent (prorab).[37] In these positions, he confronted widespread alcoholism and a lack of motivation among construction workers, an irregular supply of materials, and the regular theft or vandalism of available materials. He soon imposed fines for those who damaged or stole materials or engaged in absenteeism, and closely monitored productivity.[38] His work on the construction of a textile factory, for which he oversaw 1000 workers, brought him wider recognition.[39] In June 1958 he became a senior work superintendent (starshii prorab) and in January 1960 was made head engineer (glavni inzhener) of Construction Directorate Number 13.[40]
At the same time, Yeltsin's family was growing; in September 1956, he married Girina.[41] She soon got work at a scientific research institute, where she remained for 29 years.[42] In August 1957, their daughter Yelena was born, followed by a second daughter, Tatyana, in January 1960.[43] During this period, they moved through a succession of apartments.[44] On family holidays, Yeltsin took his family to a lake in northern Russia and the Black Sea coast.[45]
CPSU career[edit]
1960–1975: early membership of the Communist Party[edit]
In March 1960, Yeltsin became a probationary member of the governing Communist Party and a full member in March 1961.[46] In his later autobiography, he stated that his original reasons for joining were "sincere" and rooted in a genuine belief in the party's socialist ideals.[47] In other interviews he instead stated that he joined because membership was a necessity for career advancement.[48] His career continued to progress during the early 1960s; in February 1962 he was promoted chief (nachal'nik) of the construction directorate.[49] In June 1963, Yeltsin was reassigned to the Sverdlovsk House-Building Combine as its head engineer,[49] and in December 1965 became the combine's director.[49] During this period he was largely involved in building residential housing, the expansion of which was a major priority for the government. He gained a reputation within the construction industry as a hard worker who was punctual and effective and who was used to meeting the targets set forth by the state apparatus. There had been plans to award him the Order of Lenin for his work, although this was scrapped after a five-story building he was constructing collapsed in March 1966. An official investigation found that Yeltsin was not culpable for the accident.[50]
Within the local Communist Party, Yeltsin gained a patron in Yakov Ryabov [ru], who became the first secretary of the party gorkom in 1963.[51] In April 1968, Ryabov decided to recruit Yeltsin into the regional party apparatus, proposing him for a vacancy in the obkom's department for construction. Ryabov ensured that Yeltsin got the job despite objections that he was not a longstanding party member.[52] That year, Yeltsin and his family moved into a four-room apartment on Mamin-Sibiryak Street, downtown Sverdlovsk.[47] Yeltsin then received his second Order of the Red Banner of Labor for his work completing a cold-rolling mill at the Upper Iset Works, a project for which he had overseen the actions of 15,000 laborers.[53] In the late 1960s, Yeltsin was permitted to visit the West for the first time as he was sent on a trip to France.[54] In 1975, Yeltsin was then made one of the five obkom secretaries in the Sverdlovsk Oblast, a position that gave him responsibility not only for construction in the region but also for the forest and the pulp-and-paper industries. Also in 1975, his family relocated to a flat in the House of Old Bolsheviks on March Street.[55]
1976–1985: First Secretary of Sverdlovsk Oblast[edit]
In 1976, Yeltsin was interviewed by Leonid Brezhnev, General Secretary of the Communist Party, who decided that he was an appropriate choice to become First Secretary of the party's Sverdlovsk obkom.
In October 1976, Ryabov was promoted to a new position in Moscow. He recommended that Yeltsin replace him as the First Secretary of the Party Committee in Sverdlovsk Oblast.[56] Leonid Brezhnev, who then led the Soviet Union as General Secretary of the party's Central Committee, interviewed Yeltsin personally to determine his suitability and agreed with Ryabov's assessment.[57] At the Central Committee's recommendation, the Sverdlovsk obkom then unanimously voted to appoint Yeltsin as its first secretary. This made him one of the youngest provincial first secretaries in the Russian SFSR, and gave him significant power within the province.[58]
Where possible, Yeltsin tried to improve consumer welfare in the province, arguing that it would make for more productive workers.[59] Under his provincial leadership, work started on various construction and infrastructure projects in the city of Sverdlovsk, including a subway system, the replacement of its barracks housing, new theaters and a circus, the refurbishment of its 1912 opera house, and youth housing projects to build new homes for young families.[60] In September 1977, Yeltsin carried out orders to demolish the Ipatiev House, the location where the Romanov royal family had been killed in 1918, over the government's fears that it was attracting growing foreign and domestic attention. He was also responsible for punishing those living in the province who wrote or published material that the Soviet government considered to be seditious or damaging to the established order.[61]
Yeltsin sat on the civil-military collegium of the Urals Military District and attended its field exercises.[62] In October 1978, the Ministry of Defence gave him the rank of colonel.[62] Also in 1978, Yeltsin was elected without opposition to the Supreme Soviet.[63] In 1979 Yeltsin and his family moved into a five-room apartment at the Working Youth Embankment in Sverdlovsk.[64] In February 1981, Yeltsin gave a speech to the 26th CPSU Congress and on the final day of the Congress was selected to join the Communist Party Central Committee.[63]
Yeltsin's reports to party meetings reflected the ideological conformity that was expected within the authoritarian state.[65] Yeltsin played along with the personality cult surrounding Brezhnev, but he was contemptuous of what he saw as the Soviet leader's vanity and sloth. He later claimed to have quashed plans for a Brezhnev museum in Sverdlovsk.[47] While First Secretary, his world-view began to shift, influenced by his reading; he kept up with a wide range of journals published in the country and also claimed to have read an illegally printed samizdat copy of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipelago.[66] Many of his concerns about the Soviet system were prosaic rather than ideological, as he believed that the system was losing effectiveness and beginning to decay.[54] He was increasingly faced with the problem of Russia's place within the Soviet Union; unlike other republics in the country, the RSFSR lacked the same levels of autonomy from the central government in Moscow. In the early 1980s, he and Yurii Petrov privately devised a tripartite scheme for reforming the Soviet Union that would involve strengthening the Russian government, but it was never presented publicly.[67]
By 1980, Yeltsin had developed the habit of appearing unannounced in factories, shops, and public transport to get a closer look at the realities of Soviet life.[68] In May 1981, he held a question-and-answer session with college students at the Sverdlovsk Youth Palace, where he was unusually frank in his discussion of the country's problems.[69] In December 1982 he then gave a television broadcast for the region in which he responded to various letters.[70] This personalised approach to interacting with the public brought disapproval from some Communist Party figures, such as First Secretary of Tyumen Oblast, Gennadii Bogomyakov, although the Central Committee showed no concern.[71] In 1981, he was awarded the Order of Lenin for his work.[72] The following year, Brezhnev died and was succeeded by Yuri Andropov, who in turn ruled for 15 months before his own death;[73] Yeltsin spoke positively about Andropov.[74] Andropov was succeeded by another short-lived leader, Konstantin Chernenko.[75] After his death, Yeltsin took part in the Central Committee plenum which appointed Mikhail Gorbachev the new General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, and thus de facto Soviet leader, in March 1985.[75]
1985: relocation to Moscow to become Head of Gorkom[edit]
Mikhail Gorbachev took office as the General Secretary of the Communist Party in 1985; he soon promoted Yeltsin to a job in Moscow
Gorbachev was interested in reforming the Soviet Union and, at the urging of Yegor Ligachyov, the organizational secretary of the Central Committee, soon summoned Yeltsin to meet with him as a potential ally in his efforts.[75] Yeltsin had some reservations about Gorbachev as a leader, deeming him controlling and patronizing, but committed himself to the latter's project of reform.[76] In April 1985, Gorbachev appointed Yeltsin head of the Construction Department of the Party's Central Committee. Although it entailed moving to the capital city, Yeltsin was unhappy with what he regarded as a demotion.[77][78] There, he was issued a nomenklatura flat at 54 Second Tverskaya-Yamskaya Street, where his daughter Tatyana and her son and husband soon joined him and his wife.[79] Gorbachev soon promoted Yeltsin to secretary of the Central Committee for construction and capital investment, a position within the powerful CPSU Central Committee Secretariat, a move approved by the Central Committee plenum in July 1985.[80][81]
With Gorbachev's support, in December 1985, Yeltsin was installed as the first secretary of the Moscow gorkom of the CPSU.[82] He was now responsible for managing the Soviet capital city, which had a population of 8.7 million.[83] In February 1986, Yeltsin became a candidate (non-voting) member of the Politburo.[84] At that point he formally left the Secretariat to concentrate on his role in Moscow.[84] Over the coming year he removed many of the old secretaries of the gorkom, replacing them with younger individuals, particularly with backgrounds in factory management.[85] In August 1986, Yeltsin gave a two-hour report to the party conference in which he talked about Moscow's problems, including issues that had previously not been spoken about publicly. Gorbachev described the speech as a "strong fresh wind" for the party.[86] Yeltsin expressed a similar message at the 27th Congress of the CPSU in February 1986 and then in a speech at the House of Political Enlightenment in April.[87]
1987: resignation[edit]
On 10 September 1987, after a lecture from hard-liner Yegor Ligachyov at the Politburo for allowing two small unsanctioned demonstrations on Moscow streets, Yeltsin wrote a letter of resignation to Gorbachev who was holidaying on the Black Sea.[88] When Gorbachev received the letter he was stunned – nobody in Soviet history had voluntarily resigned from the ranks of the Politburo. Gorbachev phoned Yeltsin and asked him to reconsider.
On 27 October 1987 at the plenary meeting of the Central Committee of the CPSU, Yeltsin, frustrated that Gorbachev had not addressed any of the issues outlined in his resignation letter, asked to speak. He expressed his discontent with the slow pace of reform in society, the servility shown to the general secretary, and opposition to him from Ligachyov making his position untenable. He then requested that he be allowed to resign from the Politburo, adding that the City Committee would decide whether he should resign from the post of First Secretary of the Moscow Communist Party.[88] Aside from the fact that no one had ever quit the Politburo before, no one in the party had addressed a leader of the party in such a manner in front of the Central Committee since Leon Trotsky in the 1920s.[88] In his reply, Gorbachev accused Yeltsin of "political immaturity" and "absolute irresponsibility". Nobody in the Central Committee backed Yeltsin.[89]
Yeltsin with Raisa Gorbacheva
Within days, news of Yeltsin's actions leaked and rumors of his "secret speech" at the Central Committee spread throughout Moscow. Soon, fabricated samizdat versions began to circulate – this was the beginning of Yeltsin's rise as a rebel and growth in popularity as an anti-establishment figure.[90] Gorbachev called a meeting of the Moscow City Party Committee for 11 November 1987 to launch another crushing attack on Yeltsin and confirm his dismissal. On 9 November 1987, Yeltsin apparently tried to kill himself and was rushed to the hospital bleeding profusely from self-inflicted cuts to his chest. Gorbachev ordered the injured Yeltsin from his hospital bed to the Moscow party plenum two days later where he was ritually denounced by the party faithful in what was reminiscent of a Stalinist show trial before he was fired from the post of First Secretary of the Moscow Communist Party. Yeltsin said he would never forgive Gorbachev for this "immoral and inhuman" treatment.[88]
Yeltsin was demoted to the position of First Deputy Commissioner for the State Committee for Construction. At the next meeting of the Central Committee on 24 February 1988, Yeltsin was removed from his position as a Candidate member of the Politburo. He was perturbed and humiliated but began plotting his revenge.[91] His opportunity came with Gorbachev's establishment of the Congress of People's Deputies.[92] Yeltsin recovered and started intensively criticizing Gorbachev, highlighting the slow pace of reform in the Soviet Union as his major argument.
Yeltsin as candidate for the Congress of People's Deputies in 1989
Yeltsin's criticism of the Politburo and Gorbachev led to a smear campaign against him, in which examples of Yeltsin's awkward behavior were used against him. Speaking at the CPSU conference in 1988, Yegor Ligachyov stated, "Boris, you are wrong". An article in Pravda described Yeltsin as drunk at a lecture during his visit to the United States in September 1989,[93] an allegation which appeared to be confirmed by a TV account of his speech; however, popular dissatisfaction with the regime was strong, and these attempts to smear Yeltsin only added to his popularity. In another incident, Yeltsin fell from a bridge. Commenting on this event, Yeltsin hinted that he was helped to fall by the enemies of perestroika, but his opponents suggested that he was simply drunk.[94]
Between 1988 and 1991, Yeltsin established himself as the hero of the anti-communist opposition in the Soviet Union.[95] On 26 March 1989, Yeltsin was elected to the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union as the delegate from Moscow district with a decisive 92% of the vote,[80] and on 29 May 1989, he was elected by the Congress of People's Deputies to a seat on the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union. On 19 July 1989, Yeltsin announced the formation of the radical pro-reform faction in the Congress of People's Deputies, the Inter-Regional Group of Deputies, and on 29 July 1989 was elected one of the five co-chairmen of the Inter-Regional Group.[80] Following these victories, Yeltsin had become a charismatic leader with legendary and almost mythical authority both at home and abroad and earned a reputation of an anti-communist revolutionary.[95]
On 16 September 1989, during a tour of the United States, Yeltsin toured a medium-sized grocery store (Randalls) in Texas.[96] Leon Aron, quoting a Yeltsin associate, wrote in his 2000 biography, Yeltsin, A Revolutionary Life (St. Martin's Press): "For a long time, on the plane to Miami, he sat motionless, his head in his hands. 'What have they done to our poor people?' he said after a long silence." He added, "On his return to Moscow, Yeltsin would confess the pain he had felt after the Houston excursion: the 'pain for all of us, for our country so rich, so talented and so exhausted by incessant experiments'." He wrote that Mr. Yeltsin added, "I think we have committed a crime against our people by making their standard of living so incomparably lower than that of the Americans." An aide, Lev Sukhanov, was reported to have said that it was at that moment that "the last vestige of Bolshevism collapsed" inside his boss.[97] In his autobiography, Against the Grain: An Autobiography, written and published in 1990, Yeltsin hinted in a small passage that after his tour, he made plans to open his line of grocery stores and planned to fill it with government-subsidized goods to alleviate the country's problems.[citation needed]
President of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic[edit]
On 4 March 1990, Yeltsin was elected to the Congress of People's Deputies of Russia representing Sverdlovsk with 72% of the vote.[98] On 29 May 1990, he was elected chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR), although Gorbachev personally pleaded with the Russian deputies not to select Yeltsin.[99]
A part of this power struggle was the opposition between the power structures of the Soviet Union and the RSFSR. In an attempt to gain more power, on 12 June 1990, the Congress of People's Deputies of the RSFSR adopted a declaration of sovereignty. On 12 July 1990, Yeltsin resigned from the CPSU in a dramatic speech before party members at the 28th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, some of whom responded by shouting "Shame!"[100]
1991: presidential election[edit]
Main article: Boris Yeltsin 1991 presidential campaign
Yeltsin on 22 August 1991
During May 1991 Vaclav Havel invited Yeltsin to Prague where the latter unambiguously condemned the Soviet intervention in 1968.[101][102]
On 12 June Yeltsin won 57% of the popular vote in the democratic presidential elections for the Russian republic, defeating Gorbachev's preferred candidate, Nikolai Ryzhkov, who got just 16% of the vote, and four other candidates. In his election campaign, Yeltsin criticized the "dictatorship of the center", but did not suggest the introduction of a market economy. Instead, he said that he would put his head on the railtrack in the event of increased prices. Yeltsin took office on 10 July, and reappointed Ivan Silayev as Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Russian SFSR. On 18 August 1991, a coup against Gorbachev was launched by the government members opposed to perestroika. Gorbachev was held in Crimea while Yeltsin raced to the White House of Russia (residence of the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR) in Moscow to defy the coup, making a memorable speech from atop the turret of a tank onto which he had climbed. The White House was surrounded by the military, but the troops defected in the face of mass popular demonstrations. By 21 August most of the coup leaders had fled Moscow and Gorbachev was "rescued" from Crimea and then returned to Moscow. Yeltsin was subsequently hailed by his supporters around the world for rallying mass opposition to the coup.[citation needed]
Although restored to his position, Gorbachev had been destroyed politically. Neither union nor Russian power structures heeded his commands as support had swung over to Yeltsin. By September, Gorbachev could no longer influence events outside of Moscow. Taking advantage of the situation, Yeltsin began taking over what remained of the Soviet government, ministry by ministry—including the Kremlin. On 6 November 1991, Yeltsin issued a decree banning all Communist Party activities on Russian soil. In early December 1991, Ukraine voted for independence from the Soviet Union. A week later, on 8 December, Yeltsin met Ukrainian president Leonid Kravchuk and the leader of Belarus, Stanislav Shushkevich, in Belovezhskaya Pushcha. In the Belavezha Accords, the three presidents declared that the Soviet Union no longer existed "as a subject of international law and geopolitical reality", and announced the formation of a voluntary Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) in its place.[103][104]
Leaders of the Soviet Republics sign the Belovezha Accords
On 17 December, in a meeting with Yeltsin, Gorbachev accepted the fait accompli and agreed to dissolve the Soviet Union. On 24 December, by mutual agreement of the other CIS states (which by this time included all of the remaining republics except Georgia), the Russian Federation took the Soviet Union's seat in the United Nations. The next day, Gorbachev resigned and handed the functions of his office to Yeltsin.[105] On 26 December, the Council of the Republics, the upper house of the Supreme Soviet, voted the Soviet Union out of existence, thereby ending the world's oldest, largest and most powerful Communist state.[104] Economic relations between the former Soviet republics were severely compromised. Millions of ethnic Russians found themselves in newly formed foreign countries.[106]
Initially, Yeltsin promoted the retention of national borders according to the pre-existing Soviet state borders, although this left ethnic Russians as a majority in parts of northern Kazakhstan, eastern Ukraine, and areas of Estonia and Latvia.[107]
President of the Russian Federation[edit]
Main article: Presidency of Boris Yeltsin
1991–1996: first term[edit]
Radical reforms[edit]
Main article: Yeltsin–Gaidar government reforms
Yeltsin shortly after signing the Belavezha Accords with Leonid Kravchuk and Stanislav Shushkevich, 8 December 1991
Just days after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Yeltsin resolved to embark on a programme of radical economic reform. Surpassing Gorbachev's reforms, which sought to expand democracy in the socialist system, the new regime aimed to completely dismantle socialism and fully implement capitalism, converting the world's largest command economy into a free-market one. During early discussions of this transition, Yeltsin's advisers debated issues of speed and sequencing, with an apparent division between those favoring a rapid approach and those favoring a gradual or slower approach. On 1 January 1992, Yeltsin signed accords with U.S. president George H. W. Bush, declaring the Cold War officially over after nearly 47 years.[citation needed] A visit to Moscow from Havel in April 1992 occasioned the written repudiation of the Soviet intervention and the withdrawal of armed forces from Czechoslovakia.[102] Yeltsin laid a wreath during a November 1992 ceremony in Budapest, apologized for the 1956 Soviet intervention in Hungary and handed over to president Árpád Göncz documents from the Communist Party and KGB archives related to the intervention.[102] A treaty of friendship was signed in May 1992 with Lech Wałęsa's Poland, and then another one in August 1992 with Zhelyu Zhelev's Bulgaria.[102]
Yeltsin with U.S. president George H. W. Bush and First Lady Barbara Bush at the White House, Washington, D.C., 1992
On 2 January 1992, Yeltsin, acting as his own prime minister, began a major economic and administrative reform ordered the liberalization of foreign trade, prices, and currency. At the same time, Yeltsin followed a policy of "macroeconomic stabilization", a harsh austerity regime designed to control inflation. Under Yeltsin's stabilization programme, interest rates were raised to extremely high levels to tighten money and restrict credit. To bring state spending and revenues into balance, Yeltsin raised new taxes heavily, cut back sharply on government subsidies to industry and construction, and made steep cuts to state welfare spending.
In early 1992, prices skyrocketed throughout Russia, and a deep credit crunch shut down many industries and brought about a protracted depression. The reforms devastated the living standards of much of the population, especially the groups dependent on Soviet-era state subsidies and welfare programs.[108] Through the 1990s, Russia's GDP fell by 50%, vast sectors of the economy were wiped out, inequality and unemployment grew dramatically, whilst incomes fell. Hyperinflation, caused by the Central Bank of Russia's loose monetary policy, wiped out many people's personal savings, and tens of millions of Russians were plunged into poverty.[109][110]
Most of Yeltsin's time as president was plagued by economic contraction.
Crude oil prices continued to fall during the 1990s, following the trend during the late 1980s.
Some economists argue that in the 1990s, Russia suffered an economic downturn more severe than the United States or Germany had undergone six decades earlier in the Great Depression.[108] Russian commentators and even some Western economists, such as Marshall Goldman, widely blamed Yeltsin's economic programme for the country's disastrous economic performance in the 1990s. Many politicians began to quickly distance themselves from the programme. In February 1992, Russia's vice president, Alexander Rutskoy denounced the Yeltsin programme as "economic genocide".[111] By 1993, conflict over the reform direction escalated between Yeltsin on the one side, and the opposition to radical economic reform in Russia's parliament on the other.
Reporter Fred Kaplan, who served as the Moscow Bureau chief of the Boston Globe from 1992 to 1995, noted that when he arrived in Moscow and tried to find places where bottom-up democracy was being built, soon discovered that there weren't any: despite press freedoms, Yeltsin's government had remained top-down.[112]
Confrontation with parliament[edit]
Main article: 1993 Russian constitutional crisis
Throughout 1992 Yeltsin wrestled with the Supreme Soviet of Russia and the Congress of People's Deputies for control over government, government policy, government banking, and property. In 1992, the speaker of the Russian Supreme Soviet, Ruslan Khasbulatov, came out in opposition to the reforms, despite claiming to support Yeltsin's overall goals. In December 1992, the 7th Congress of People's Deputies succeeded in turning down the Yeltsin-backed candidacy of Yegor Gaidar for the position of Russian Prime Minister. An agreement was brokered by Valery Zorkin, president of the Constitutional Court, which included the following provisions: a national referendum on the new constitution; parliament and Yeltsin would choose a new head of government, to be confirmed by the Supreme Soviet; and the parliament was to cease making constitutional amendments that change the balance of power between the legislative and executive branches. Eventually, on 14 December, Viktor Chernomyrdin, widely seen as a compromise figure, was confirmed in the office.
The conflict escalated soon, however, with the parliament changing its prior decision to hold a referendum. Yeltsin, in turn, announced in a televised address to the nation on 20 March 1993, that he was going to assume certain "special powers" to implement his programme of reforms. In response, the hastily called 9th Congress of People's Deputies of Russia attempted to remove Yeltsin from the presidency through impeachment on 26 March 1993. Yeltsin's opponents gathered more than 600 votes for impeachment but fell 72 votes short of the required two-thirds majority.[113]
Yeltsin during the signature ceremony of the START II in Moscow, 3 January 1993
During the summer of 1993, a situation of dual power developed in Russia. From July, two separate administrations of the Chelyabinsk Oblast functioned side by side, after Yeltsin refused to accept the newly elected pro-parliament head of the region. The Supreme Soviet pursued its foreign policies, passing a declaration on the status of Sevastopol. In August, a commentator reflected on the situation as follows: "The President issues decrees as if there were no Supreme Soviet, and the Supreme Soviet suspends decrees as if there were no President." (Izvestia, 13 August 1993).[114]
On 21 September 1993, in breach of the constitution, Yeltsin announced in a televised address his decision to disband the Supreme Soviet and Congress of People's Deputies by decree. In his address, Yeltsin declared his intent to rule by decree until the election of the new parliament and a referendum on a new constitution, triggering the constitutional crisis of October 1993. On the night after Yeltsin's televised address, the Supreme Soviet declared Yeltsin removed from the presidency for breaching the constitution, and Vice-president Alexander Rutskoy was sworn in as acting president.[113]
Between 21 and 24 September, Yeltsin was confronted by popular unrest. Demonstrators protested the terrible living conditions under Yeltsin. Since 1989, GDP had declined by half. Corruption was rampant, violent crime was skyrocketing, medical services were collapsing, food and fuel were increasingly scarce and life expectancy was falling for all but a tiny handful of the population; moreover, Yeltsin was increasingly getting the blame. By early October, Yeltsin had secured the support of Russian Armed Forces and Ministry of Internal Affairs. In a massive show of force, Yeltsin called up tanks to shell the Russian White House (parliament building). The attack killed 187 people and wounded almost 500 others.[113]
As the Supreme Soviet was dissolved, elections to the newly established parliament, the State Duma, were held in December 1993. Candidates associated with Yeltsin's economic policies were overwhelmed by a huge anti-Yeltsin vote, the bulk of which was divided between the Communist Party and ultra-nationalists. However, the referendum held at the same time approved the new constitution, which significantly expanded the powers of the president, giving Yeltsin the right to appoint the members of the government, to dismiss the prime minister and, in some cases, to dissolve the Duma.[115] This led to the de facto establishment of a super-presidential system.[116][117][118]
Relations with NATO[edit]
See also: Russia–NATO relations
The U.S. Department of State seemed to confuse Yeltsin over German re-unification and dismemberment of the Helsinki Final Act and ensuing Partnership for Peace (PfP) push for NATO expansion. There is some question as to the involvement of his Minister of Foreign Affairs Andrei Kozyrev, who in August 1993 was painted by Lech Wałęsa as a saboteur of Polish aspirations for NATO membership but was regarded by domestic opponents as suborned by the United States.[102] In Yeltsin's letter to Bill Clinton dated 15 September 1993 he strongly favored "a pan-European security system" instead of NATO and warned:[119]
Not only the opposition, but moderate circles as well [in Russia], would no doubt perceive this as a sort of neo-isolation of our country in diametric opposition to its natural admission into Euro-Atlantic space.
After his August visit to Warsaw, Yeltsin saw the explosion of fright over NATO in the old guard and thereafter the window of détente slammed shut.[102] By December 1994, the month in which the Budapest Memorandum was signed, Clinton began to understand that Russia had concluded he was "subordinating, if not abandoning, integration [of Russia] to NATO expansion". In July 1995, by which time the Russians had signed up to PfP, Yeltsin said to Clinton, "we must stick to our position, which is that there should be no rapid expansion of NATO.. it's important that the OSCE be the principal mechanism for developing a new security order in Europe. NATO is a factor, too, of course, but NATO should evolve into a political[-only] organization."[119]
Chechnya[edit]
Main article: First Chechen War
In December 1994, Yeltsin ordered the military invasion of Chechnya in an attempt to restore Moscow's control over the republic. Nearly two years later, Yeltsin withdrew federal forces from the devastated Chechnya under a 1996 peace agreement brokered by Alexander Lebed, Yeltsin's then-security chief. The peace deal allowed Chechnya greater autonomy but not full independence. The decision to launch the war in Chechnya dismayed many in the West. Time magazine wrote:
Then, what was to be made of Boris Yeltsin? He could no longer be regarded as the democratic hero of Western myth. But had he become an old-style communist boss, turning his back on the democratic reformers he once championed and throwing in his lot with militarists and ultranationalists? Or was he a befuddled, out-of-touch chief being manipulated, knowingly or unwittingly, by—well, by whom exactly? If there were to be a dictatorial coup, would Yeltsin be its victim or its leader?[120]
Norwegian rocket incident[edit]
In 1995, a Black Brant sounding rocket launched from the Andøya Space Center caused a high alert in Russia, known as the Norwegian rocket incident. The Russians were alerted that it might be a nuclear missile launched from an American submarine. The incident occurred in the post-Cold War era, where many Russians were still very suspicious of the United States and NATO.[121] A full alert was passed up through the military chain of command to Yeltsin, who was notified and the "nuclear briefcase" (known in Russia as Cheget) used to authorize nuclear launch was automatically activated. Russian satellites indicated that no massive attack was underway and he agreed with advisors that it was a false alarm.[122]
Privatization and the rise of "the oligarchs"[edit]
Main article: Privatization in Russia
Yeltsin and Bill Clinton share a laugh in October 1995
Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Yeltsin promoted privatization as a way of spreading ownership of shares in former state enterprises as widely as possible to create political support for his economic reforms. In the West, privatization was viewed as the key to the transition from Communism in Eastern Europe, ensuring a quick dismantling of the Soviet-era command economy to make way for "free market reforms". In the early 1990s, Anatoly Chubais, Yeltsin's deputy for economic policy, emerged as a leading advocate of privatization in Russia.
In late 1992, Yeltsin launched a programme of free vouchers as a way to give mass privatization a jump-start. Under the programme, all Russian citizens were issued vouchers, each with a nominal value of around 10,000 rubles, for the purchase of shares of select state enterprises. Although each citizen initially received a voucher of equal face value, within months the majority of them converged in the hands of intermediaries who were ready to buy them for cash right away.[123]
Boris Yeltsin and the country's leadership on the Lenin Mausoleum tribune during the celebration of the 50th anniversary of Victory, 9 May 1995
In 1995, as Yeltsin struggled to finance Russia's growing foreign debt and gain support from the Russian business elite for his bid in the 1996 presidential elections, the Russian president prepared for a new wave of privatization offering stock shares in some of Russia's most valuable state enterprises in exchange for bank loans. The programme was promoted as a way of simultaneously speeding up privatization and ensuring the government a cash infusion to cover its operating needs.[106]
However, the deals were effectively giveaways of valuable state assets to a small group of tycoons in finance, industry, energy, telecommunications, and the media who came to be known as "oligarchs" in the mid-1990s. This was because ordinary people sold their vouchers for cash. The vouchers were bought by a small group of investors. By mid-1996, substantial ownership shares over major firms were acquired at very low prices by a handful of people. Boris Berezovsky, who controlled major stakes in several banks and the national media, emerged as one of Yeltsin's most prominent supporters. Along with Berezovsky, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, Vladimir Potanin, Vladimir Bogdanov, Rem Viakhirev, Vagit Alekperov, Alexander Smolensky, Viktor Vekselberg, Mikhail Fridman and a few years later Roman Abramovich, were habitually mentioned in the media as Russia's oligarchs.[124]
Korean Air Lines Flight 007[edit]
Main article: Korean Air Lines Flight 007
On 5 December 1991, Senator Jesse Helms, ranking member of the Minority on the U.S. Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, wrote to Yeltsin concerning U.S. servicemen who were POWs or MIAs: "The status of thousands and thousands of American servicemen who are held by Soviet and other Communist forces, and who were never repatriated after every major war this century, is of grave concern to the American people."[125]
Yeltsin responded with a statement made on 15 June 1992, whilst being interviewed on board his presidential jet en route to the United States, "Our archives have shown that it is true— some of them were transferred to the territory of the USSR and were kept in labour camps... We can only surmise that some of them may still be alive."[125] On 10 December 1991, five days after Helms had written to Yeltsin regarding American servicemen, he again wrote to Yeltsin, this time concerning Korean Air Lines Flight 007 (KAL 007) requesting information concerning possible survivors, including Georgia Congressman Larry McDonald, and their whereabouts.
One of the greatest tragedies of the Cold War was the shoot-down of the Korean Airlines Flight 007 by the Armed Forces of what was then the Soviet Union on 1 September 1983... The KAL-007 tragedy was one of the most tense incident of the entire Cold War. However, now that relations between our two nations have improved substantially, I believe that it is time to resolve the mysteries surrounding this event. Clearing the air on this issue could help further to improve relations.— Sen. Jesse Helms, writing to Yeltsin, 10 December 1991
In March 1992, Yeltsin handed over KAL 007's black box without its tapes to South Korean President Roh Tae-woo at the end of the plenary session of the South Korean National Assembly, saying "We apologize for the tragedy and are trying to settle some unsolved issues." Yeltsin released the tapes of the KAL 007's black box (its digital flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder) to the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) on 8 January 1993.[126] For years the Soviet authorities had denied possessing these tapes. The openness of Yeltsin about POW/MIA and KAL 007 matters may also have signaled his willingness for more openness to the West. In 1992, which he labeled the "window of opportunity", he was willing to discuss biological weapons with the United States and admitted that the Sverdlovsk anthrax leak of 2 April 1979 (which Yeltsin had originally been involved in concealing) had been caused as the result of a mishap at a military facility.[127][128] The Russian government had maintained that the cause was contaminated meat. The true number of victims in the anthrax outbreak at Sverdlovsk, about 850 miles (1,368 km) east of Moscow, is unknown.
1996 presidential election[edit]
Main articles: 1996 Russian presidential election and Boris Yeltsin 1996 presidential campaign
Yeltsin at an election rally in Belgorod, 1996
In February 1996, Yeltsin announced that he would seek a second term in the 1996 Russian presidential election in the summer. This announcement came after weeks of speculation that Yeltsin's political career was nearing its end because of his health problems and growing unpopularity in Russia. At the time, Yeltsin was recuperating from a series of heart attacks, and both domestic and international observers had noted his occasionally erratic behavior. By the time campaigning began in early 1996, Yeltsin's popularity was close to being non-existent.[129] Meanwhile, the opposition Communist Party had already gained significant ground in the parliamentary elections held on 17 December 1995. Its candidate, Gennady Zyuganov, boasted a strong grassroots organization, especially in the rural areas and small towns, and effectively appealed to nostalgia for the Soviet Union's international prestige and the domestic order under state socialism.[130] At the same time, during and after the elections, the Communist Party secured the stability of Yeltsin and his regime, who relied on anti-communist rhetoric and on the fear of a resurgence of a strong communist party.[95] During the elections, Yeltsin positioned himself as the only credible anti-communist candidate, able to prevent a new revolution and civil war and lead Russia toward stability and peace.[131] The pro-government and pro-Yeltsin forces launched an anti-communist propaganda campaign in the media and established a special anti-communist newspaper Ne Dai Bog [ru] ("God forbid") promoting Yeltsin.[132]
Panic struck the Yeltsin team when opinion polls suggested that the ailing president could not win; some members of his entourage urged him to cancel the presidential elections and effectively rule as a dictator from then on.[133] Instead, Yeltsin changed his campaign team, assigning a key role to his daughter, Tatyana Dyachenko, and appointing Chubais as campaign manager. Chubais, acting as both Yeltsin's campaign manager and adviser on Russia's privatization programme, used his control of the privatization programme as an instrument of Yeltsin's re-election campaign.
The results of the second round of the 1996 elections. Grey highlighted regions where Yeltsin won.
In mid-1996, Chubais and Yeltsin recruited a team of a handful of financial and media oligarchs to bankroll the Yeltsin campaign and guarantee favorable media coverage to the president on national television and in leading newspapers.[134] In return, Chubais allowed well-connected Russian business leaders to acquire majority stakes in some of Russia's most valuable state-owned assets.[135] Led by the efforts of Mikhail Lesin, the media painted a picture of a fateful choice for Russia, between Yeltsin and a "return to totalitarianism". The oligarchs even played up the threat of civil war if a Communist was elected president.[136]
U.S. president Bill Clinton also threw his support behind Yeltsin's campaign.[137] At the White House's direction, American advisors were sent to join the campaign team of the sitting Russian president to teach new electoral techniques. Several European governments also showed their support for Yeltsin. French Prime Minister Alain Juppé visited Moscow on 14 February, the day Yeltsin's candidacy was announced, and said he hoped the election campaign would be "an opportunity to highlight the achievements of President Yeltsin's reform policy". On the same day, German Chancellor Helmut Kohl visited Moscow, describing Yeltsin as "an absolutely reliable partner who has always respected his commitments".[138]
Yeltsin presidential campaign
Yeltsin campaigned energetically, dispelling concerns about his health and maintaining a high media profile. To boost his popularity, Yeltsin promised to abandon some of his more unpopular economic reforms, boost welfare spending, end the war in Chechnya, and pay wage and pension arrears. Yeltsin had benefited from the approval of a US$10.2 billion International Monetary Fund loan to Russia,[139] which helped to keep his government afloat.[140][141]
Zyuganov, who lacked Yeltsin's resources and financial backing, saw his early lead gradually erode. After the first round of voting on 16 June, Yeltsin appointed Alexander Lebed, a popular candidate who had finished in third place in the first round, as secretary of the Security Council of Russia. At Lebed's behest, Yeltsin fired defense minister Pavel Grachev and, on 20 June, sacked a number of his siloviki, one of them being his chief of presidential security Alexander Korzhakov, viewed by many as Yeltsin's éminence grise. In the run-off on 3 July, with a turnout of 68.9%, Yeltsin won 53.8% of the vote and Zyuganov 40.7%, with the rest (5.9%) voting "against all".[142]
1996–1999: Second term[edit]
See also: 1998 Russian financial crisis
Yeltsin (right) meeting with President Bill Clinton (left) and President Martti Ahtisaari (middle) in Helsinki, Finland on 21 March 1997
Yeltsin underwent emergency quintuple heart bypass surgery in November 1996, and remained in the hospital for months. During his presidency, Russia received US$40 billion in funds from the International Monetary Fund and other international lending organizations. However, his opponents allege that most of these funds were stolen by people from Yeltsin's circle and placed into foreign banks.[143][144]
Anti-Yeltsin protests
In 1998, a political and economic crisis emerged when Kiriyenko's government defaulted on its debts, causing financial markets to panic and the ruble to collapse in the 1998 Russian financial crisis. During the 1999 Kosovo War, Yeltsin strongly opposed the NATO military campaign against Yugoslavia,[145] and warned of possible Russian intervention if NATO deployed ground troops to Kosovo. In televised comments, he stated: "I told NATO, the Americans, the Germans: Don't push us towards military action. Otherwise, there will be a European war for sure and possibly a world war."[146][147] Yeltsin said that NATO's bombing of Yugoslavia "trampled upon the foundations of international law and the United Nations charter".[148]
On 9 August 1999, Yeltsin fired his Prime Minister, Sergei Stepashin, and for the fourth time, fired his entire Cabinet. In Stepashin's place, he appointed Vladimir Putin, relatively unknown at that time, and announced his wish to see Putin as his successor. In late 1999, Yeltsin and U.S. President Bill Clinton openly disagreed on the war in Chechnya. At the November meeting of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, Clinton pointed his finger at Yeltsin and demanded he halt bombing attacks that had resulted in many civilian casualties. Yeltsin immediately left the conference.[149]
Yeltsin with Patriarch Alexy II and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
In December, whilst visiting China to seek support on Chechnya, Yeltsin replied to Clinton's criticism of a Russian ultimatum to citizens of Grozny. He bluntly pronounced: "Yesterday, Clinton permitted himself to put pressure on Russia. It seems he has for a minute, for a second, for half a minute, forgotten that Russia has a full arsenal of nuclear weapons. He has forgotten about that." Clinton dismissed Yeltsin's comments stating: "I didn't think he'd forgotten that America was a great power when he disagreed with what I did in Kosovo." It fell to Putin to downplay Yeltsin's comments and present reassurances about U.S. and Russian relations.[150]
Attempted 1999 impeachment[edit]
On 15 May 1999, Yeltsin survived another impeachment attempt, this time by the democratic and communist opposition in the State Duma. He was charged with several unconstitutional activities, including the signing of the Belovezha Accords dissolving the Soviet Union in December 1991, the coup-d'état in October 1993, and initiating the war in Chechnya in 1994. None of these charges received the two-thirds majority of the Duma required to initiate the process of impeachment.[151][152]
Mabetex corruption[edit]
Yeltsin on the day of his resignation, together with Putin and Aleksandr Voloshin
With Pavel Borodin as the Kremlin property manager, Swiss construction firm Mabetex was awarded many important Russian government contracts. They were awarded the contracts to reconstruct, renovate and refurbish the former Russian Federation Parliament, the Russian Opera House, State Duma and the Moscow Kremlin.
In 1998, the prosecutor general of Russia, Yuri Skuratov, opened a bribery investigation against Mabetex, accusing its chief executive officer Behgjet Pacolli of bribing Yeltsin and his family. Swiss authorities issued an international arrest warrant for Pavel Borodin, the official who managed the Kremlin's property empire.[153] Stating that bribery was a common business practice in Russia, Pacolli confirmed in early December 1999 that he had guaranteed five credit cards for Yeltsin's wife, Naina, and two daughters, Tatyana and Yelena.[153] Yeltsin resigned a few weeks later on 31 December 1999, appointing Vladimir Putin as his successor. Putin's first decree as president was lifelong immunity from prosecution for Yeltsin.[154]
Resignation[edit]
Boris Yeltsin's 1999 new year address in which he announced his resignation
On 31 December 1999, during a televised New Year address, Yeltsin issued his resignation[155] on the state-owned ORT channel.[156] In the speech, he praised the advances in cultural, political, and economic freedom that his administration had overseen although apologized to Russia's people for "not making many of your and my dreams come true. What seemed simple to do proved to be excruciatingly difficult."[157][158] Yeltsin additionally announced that Vladimir Putin, by-then the most popular politician in the country, would be serving as acting president for the remaining three months until the next presidential election on 26 March 2000.[159][156]
Yeltsin's approval ratings had been estimated to have been at their lowest by the time he left office, having plummeted to as low as 2–4%.[154][160] Polling also suggests that a majority of the Russian population were pleased by Yeltsin's resignation.[161]
Electoral history[edit]
Main article: Electoral history of Boris Yeltsin
Heart disease and alcoholism[edit]
Yeltsin suffered from heart disease during his first term as President of Russia, probably continuing for the rest of his life. He is known to have suffered heart problems in March 1990, just after being elected as a member of parliament.[162] It was common knowledge that, in early 1996, he was recuperating from a series of heart attacks and, soon after, he spent months in hospital recovering from a quintuple bypass operation (see above).
Boris and Naina Yeltsina with President Vladimir Putin and First Lady Lyudmila on Yeltsin's 71st birthday, 2002
According to numerous reports, Yeltsin was alcohol dependent until 1996, when his worsening health made him give up heavy drinking.[163][164] The topic made headlines abroad during Yeltsin's visit to the U.S. in 1989 for a series of lectures on social and political life in the Soviet Union. A report in the Italian newspaper La Repubblica, reprinted by Pravda, reported that Yeltsin often appeared drunk in public. His alcoholism was also the subject of media discussion following his meeting with U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott following Clinton's inauguration in 1993 and an incident during a flight stop-over at Shannon Airport, Ireland, in September 1994, when the waiting Irish prime minister, Albert Reynolds, was told that Yeltsin was unwell and would not be leaving the aircraft. Speaking to the media in March 2010, Yeltsin's daughter, Tatyana Yumasheva, claimed that her father had suffered a heart attack on the flight from the United States to Moscow and was therefore not in a position to leave the plane.[165]
With Mintimer Shaimiev on 22 June 2006
Yeltsin with tennis player Dmitry Tursunov in 2006
According to former deputy prime minister of Russia Boris Nemtsov, the bizarre behavior of Yeltsin resulted from "strong drugs" given to him by Kremlin doctors, which were incompatible even with a small amount of alcohol. This was discussed by journalist Yelena Tregubova from the Kremlin pool in connection with an episode during Yeltsin's visit to Stockholm in 1997, when Yeltsin suddenly started talking nonsense (he allegedly told his bemused audience that Swedish meatballs reminded him of Björn Borg's face),[166][167] lost his balance, and almost fell down on the podium after drinking a single glass of champagne.[168]
In his memoirs, Yeltsin claimed no recollection of the event but did make a passing reference to the incident when he met Borg a year later at the World Circle Kabaddi Cup in Hamilton, Ontario, where the pair had been invited to present the trophy.[169] He made a hasty withdrawal from the funeral of King Hussein of Jordan in February 1999 to use the facilities.[168]
After Yeltsin's death, Michiel Staal, a Dutch neurosurgeon, said that his team had been secretly flown to Moscow to operate on Yeltsin in 1999. Yeltsin suffered from an unspecified neurological disorder that affected his sense of balance, causing him to wobble as if in a drunken state; the goal of the operation was to reduce the pain.[168]
Former U.S. President Bill Clinton claimed that on a 1995 visit to Washington, Yeltsin was found on Pennsylvania Avenue, drunk, in his underwear and trying to hail a taxi cab to find pizza.[170]
Yeltsin's personal and health problems received a great deal of attention in the global press. As the years went on, he was often viewed as an increasingly drunk and unstable leader, rather than the inspiring figure he was once seen as. The possibility that he might die in office was often discussed. Starting in the last years of his presidential term, Yeltsin's primary residence was the Gorki-9 presidential dacha west of Moscow. He made frequent stays at the nearby government sanatorium in Barvikha.[168] In October 1999, Yeltsin was hospitalized with the flu and a fever, and in the following month, he was hospitalized with pneumonia, just days after receiving treatment for bronchitis.[171]
Life after resignation[edit]
Yeltsin with his wife Naina on his 75th birthday, 2006
Yeltsin maintained a low profile after his resignation, making almost no public statements or appearances. He criticized his successor Putin in December 2000 for supporting the reintroduction of the tune of the Soviet-era national anthem, albeit with different lyrics.[172] In January 2001, he was hospitalized for six weeks with pneumonia resulting from a viral infection.[173] On 13 September 2004, following the Beslan school hostage crisis and nearly concurrent terrorist attacks in Moscow, Putin launched an initiative to replace the election of regional governors with a system whereby they would be directly appointed by the president and approved by regional legislatures. Yeltsin, together with Mikhail Gorbachev, publicly criticized Putin's plan as a step away from democracy in Russia and a return to the centrally-run political apparatus of the Soviet era.[174]
In September 2005, Yeltsin underwent a hip operation in Moscow after breaking his femur in a fall while on holiday in the Italian island of Sardinia.[175] On 1 February 2006, Yeltsin celebrated his 75th birthday.
Death and funeral[edit]
Main article: Death and state funeral of Boris Yeltsin
Yeltsin's funeral
Yeltsin died of congestive heart failure[176][177] on 23 April 2007, aged 76.[178][179] According to experts quoted by Komsomolskaya Pravda, the onset of Yeltsin's condition began during his visit to Jordan between 25 March and 2 April.[176] He is buried in the Novodevichy Cemetery on 25 April 2007,[180] following a period during which his body had lain in repose in the Cathedral of Christ the Saviour in Moscow.[181]
Yeltsin was the first Russian head of state in 113 years to be buried in a church ceremony, after Emperor Alexander III.[182] He was survived by his wife, Naina Iosifovna Yeltsina, whom he married in 1956, and their two daughters Yelena and Tatyana, born in 1957 and 1960, respectively.[113]
Bill Clinton, Vladimir Putin and George H. W. Bush appeared at Yeltsin's funeral.
President Putin declared the day of his funeral a national day of mourning, with the nation's flags flown at half-staff and all entertainment programs suspended for the day.[183] Putin said, upon declaring 25 April 2007 a day of national mourning, that:
Yeltsin's Presidency has inscribed him forever in Russian and in world history. ...
A new democratic Russia was born during his time: a free, open and peaceful country.
A state in which the power truly does belong to the people. ... the first President of Russia’s strength consisted in the mass support of Russian citizens for his ideas and aspirations.
Thanks to the will and direct initiative of President Boris Yeltsin a new constitution, one which declared human rights a supreme value, was adopted.
It gave people the opportunity to freely express their thoughts, to freely choose power in Russia, to realize their creative and entrepreneurial plans.
This Constitution permitted us to begin building a truly effective Federation. ...
We knew him as a brave and a warm-hearted, spiritual person. He was an upstanding and courageous national leader. And he was always very honest and frank while defending his position. ...
[Yeltsin] assumed full responsibility for everything he called for, for everything he aspired to. For everything he tried to do and did do for the sake of Russia, for the sake of millions of Russians. And he invariably took upon himself, let it in his heart, all the trials and tribulations of Russia, peoples' difficulties and problems.[184]
Shortly after the news broke, former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev issued a statement, saying: "I express my profoundest condolences to the family of the deceased, who had major deeds for the good of the country as well as serious mistakes behind him. It was a tragic destiny."[185]
Ideology[edit]
This article is part of a series onLiberalism in Russia
Ideologies
Classical
Economic
Conservative
Liberal socialism
Social democracy
Libertarianism
Neo-
Progressivism
Social
Principles
Anti-communism
Anti-fascism
Civil and political rights
Due process
Environmentalism
Equality before the law
Freedom
Economic
Press
Religion
Speech
Liberal democracy
Popular sovereignty
Rule of law
Social justice
History
Progressive Bloc
White movement (factions)
New Economic Policy
De-Stalinization
Perestroika
Glasnost
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
Decommunization
Shock therapy
2011–2013 protests
2017–2018 protests
2021 protests
People
Azar
Barshchevsky
Chernomyrdin
Chicherin
Chubais
Dolin
Gaidar
Gorbachev
Gudkov
Herzen
Kasparov
Kavelin
Konovalov
Kudrin
Lvov
Maklakov
Milov
Milyukov
Navalny
Nechayev
Nemtsov
Pivovarov
Popov
Prokhorov
Rubanov
Ryzhkov
Sakharov
Shatalin
Shaveddinov
Shenderovich
Sobol
Speransky
Varlamov
Volkov
Yasin
Yavlinsky
Yeltsin
Parties
Civic Platform
Civilian Power
Constitutional Democratic Party
Democratic Party of Russia
Democratic Choice
Democratic Choice of Russia
Forward, Russia!
New People
Our Choice
Our Home – Russia
PARNAS
Party of Democratic Reform
Party of Economic Freedom
Party of Growth
Party of Peaceful Renovation
People's Freedom Party
Progressive Party
Russian People's Democratic Union
Solidarnost
Union of October 17
Union of Right Forces
Yabloko
Media
Novaya Gazeta
Rech
Related topics
Anarchism in Russia
Anti-Putinism
Anti-Sovietism
Conservatism in Russia
Democratic Russia
Feminism in Russia
LGBTQ rights in Russia
Media freedom in Russia
Non-system opposition
Russian Opposition Coordination Council
Vekhovstvo
Liberalism portal
Russia portalvte
During the late Soviet period, Yeltsin's ideological worldview began to shift.[60] Colton argued that populism and "a non-ethnic Russianism" had begun to enter Yeltsin's thinking while he was First Secretary of Sverdlovsk.[186] In the late 1980s, Yeltsin told the Athens daily newspaper Kathimerini that "I regard myself as a social democrat", despite his economic privatisation programs, adding: "Those who still believe in communism are moving in the sphere of fantasy."[187]
Linking Yeltsin with "liberal Russian nationalism",[188] Alfred B. Evans described Yeltsin as having "exerted a crucial influence on the development of Russian nationalism".[189] Yeltsin helped to channel the aspirations of Russian nationalism in ways that did not lead to clashes with the nationalisms of other national groups within the Soviet Union.[189] As head of the Russian SFSR, he stressed the specific interests of the Russian republic within the broader Soviet Union.[190] Evans compared Yeltsin's turn away from the "empire-building" of the Soviet Union to the ideas of the writer and dissident Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, who had called in the 1980s for Russia to extricate itself from the Soviet Union.[191] However, Evans thought that Yeltsin still appeared to believe by 1990 that the Ukrainians and Belarusians, as fellow East Slavic nationalities, would want to remain politically united with Russia in federal form. By 1991, it was obvious that this would not occur as the Ukrainian population favored full independence.[192] Over the course of his presidency, he made increasing concessions to right-wing ethnic Russian nationalism by expressing growing concern over the fate of ethnic Russians in neighboring countries.[193]
Personal life[edit]
Colton described Yeltsin as a man who "teemed with inner complexities",[194] who exhibited both a "mathematical cast of mind" and a "taste for adventure",[195] noting that Yeltsin had "the intuition for grasping a situation holistically".[196] Colton thought Yeltsin could be bullheaded,[197] and restless.[13] Evans noted that in Yeltsin's autobiography, the leader appeared to view himself as more of a Soviet person than a Russian.[191] Throughout his life, Yeltsin sustained a number of health problems which he would usually try to conceal.[198] As a child, he sustained both a broken nose and a maimed hand, physical attributes he remained self-conscious about;[199] in public he would often conceal his left hand under the table or behind his tie.[200] He was also deaf on the right side due to a middle-ear infection.[201] Although his mother was a devout Orthodox Christian, Yeltsin did not grow up as a practitioner, only becoming so in the 1980s and 1990s.[9]
Yeltsin stated that his "style of management" was "tough" and that he "demanded strict discipline and fulfilment of promises".[202] Yeltsin was a workaholic;[203] at UPI university, he developed the habit of sleeping for only four hours at night.[204] He was punctual and very strict regarding the tardiness of his subordinates.[202] He had an excellent memory,[205] and enjoyed reading; by 1985 his family had around 6000 volumes in their possession.[60] At UPI university, he was known for enjoying practical jokes.[206] He enjoyed listening to folk songs and pop tunes,[207] and from youth could play the lozhki spoons.[13] Until poor health stopped him in the 1990s, Yeltsin enjoyed swimming in icy water, and throughout his life started each day with a cold shower.[195] He also loved using the banya steambath.[13] Yeltsin also enjoyed hunting and had his own collection of hunting guns.[208] He liked to give watches and other keepsakes to his employees, often as a means of motivating them to work harder.[209] He disliked people swearing,[210] and when frustrated or angry, he was known to often snap pencils in his hand.[79]
Yeltsin had a high tolerance for alcohol, and by the 1980s he was drinking alcohol at or above the average for the party elite.[211] Yeltsin's favorite writer was Anton Chekhov,[212] although he also enjoyed the work of Sergei Yesenin and Alexander Pushkin.[207] Colton described Yeltsin as having a "husky baritone" voice.[213]
Doder and Branson noted that Yeltsin was "a hero for young Russians, a cult figure to those who were not necessarily anticommunists but who were filled with bitterness and apathy" from the Brezhnev years.[214] They noted he was "ebullient, almost outrageously open",[215] and also "charismatic".[214] They added that Yeltsin presented himself as "a true working-class hero" when challenging the Soviet administration.[216]
Yeltsin had nevertheless always wanted a son.[205]
Yelena briefly married a school friend, Aleksei Fefelov, against her parents' wishes. They had a daughter, Yekaterina, in 1979, before separating.[201] Yelena then married an Aeroflot pilot, Valerii Okulov, with whom she had a second daughter, Mariya, in 1983.[201] Yeltsin's other daughter, Tatyana, married fellow student Vilen Khairullin, an ethnic Tatar, while studying at Moscow State University in 1980. In 1981 they had a son, named Boris after his grandfather, but soon separated.[201] Tatyana then married again, to Leonid Dyachenko, and for a while they lived with Yeltsin at his Moscow apartment during the mid-1980s.[79] Yeltsin was loyal to his friends.[45] As friends, Yeltsin selected individuals he deemed to be professionally competent and morally fastidious.[45] Aron noted that Yeltsin could be "an inexhaustible fount of merriment, exuberance and hospitality" among his friends.[45]
Reception and legacy[edit]
Yeltsin Center with the memorial sculpture
Memorial to Yeltsin in Tallinn, Estonia
Evaluations of Yeltsin are highly polarized. Former United States Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul emphasizes the range pro and con:
Yeltsin certainly deserves credit for monumental achievements. On his watch, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was destroyed, the largest empire on earth was peacefully dismantled, and electoral democracy was introduced into a country with a thousand-year history of autocratic rule....Yeltsin invites and eludes a ringing assessment. Was he a heroic revolutionary, or an erratic reformer? An astute politician and a committed democrat, or a populist improviser with little interest in the hard work of coalition building? Was he a daring economic reformer, or a blundering tool of the oligarchs? ...Does he emerge as a larger-than-life leader who rose to unprecedented challenges, or as a figure overwhelmed by the enormity of change? The answer, not surprisingly, is that Yeltsin was all of the above.[217]
Colton suggested that "Yeltsin leaves nobody indifferent. He needs to be understood if we are to understand the age we inhabit".[218] Aron characterised him as "Russia's first modern leader".[219] Colton understood him as "a hero in history", albeit one who was "enigmatic and flawed".[220] He expressed the view that Yeltsin was part of "the global trend away from authoritarianism and statism" that occurred in the 1990s, comparing him to Nelson Mandela, Lech Wałęsa, Václav Havel and Mikhail Gorbachev.[221]
Observers[who?] have described Russia's government under Yeltsin as a hybrid or illiberal democratic regime,[222][118][223][224] citing his frequent abuses of presidential power which led to hyper-presidentialism in Russia.[225]
In the years following his presidency, there was comparatively little interest among biographers and historians in researching Yeltsin's life.[226]
During his career as a figure in the Soviet Union, Yeltsin received ten medals and awards for his service to the state.[72] In April 2008, a new memorial to Yeltsin was dedicated in Moscow's Novodevichy cemetery, to mixed reactions. At the memorial service, a military chorus performed Russia's national anthem – an anthem that was changed shortly after the end of Yeltsin's term, to follow the music of the old Soviet anthem, with lyrics reflecting Russia's new status.[227][228]
Ryabov, who was formerly a close ally of Yeltsin's, claimed that his actions in the 1990s revealed that he was a turncoat.[229]
In 2013, a memorial sculpture in relief, dedicated to Yeltsin, was erected on Nunne street, at the base of the Patkuli stairs in Tallinn, for his contribution to the peaceful independence of Estonia during 1990–1991.[230]
In 2015, the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Center was opened in Yekaterinburg.[231]
Public opinion in Russia[edit]
Yeltsin's legacy has remained a controversial topic in Russia.[232][233][234]
A VCIOM survey carried out in 2001, over two years after Yeltsin's resignation, showed the public's mostly negative perception of the former president at the time:
Nationwide VCIOM Survey: What is your general attitude to Yeltsin?
Admiration
0%
Respect
7%
Fondness
7%
Indifference
23%
Dislike
38%
Fear
1%
Revulsion
21%
Doesn't know
3%
Date: 20–23 April 2001. Sample size: 1600. Source:[235]
Another VCIOM survey, carried out in 2010, showed the continuing unpopularity of Yeltsin three years after his death:
In historical perspective, do you think the Yeltsin epoch brought more good or more bad to Russia?
More bad
59%
More good
19%
Doesn't know
22%
Date: 17–21 December 2010. Sample size: 1611. Source:[236]
Honors and awards[edit]
Russian and Soviet
Russia: Order "For Merit to the Fatherland", 1st class (12 June 2001) – a particularly outstanding contribution to the establishment and development of the Russian state[237][238]
Soviet Union: Order of Lenin (30 January 1981) – for services to the Communist Party and Soviet state and his fiftieth birthday[239][240]
Soviet Union: Order of the Red Banner of Labour, twice;[238][240]
August 1971 – for services in carrying out a five-year plan
January 1974 – for achievements in the construction of the first stage of cold rolling shop at the Verkh-Isetsky Metallurgical Plant in Sverdlovsk
Soviet Union: Order of the Badge of Honour (1966) – for achievements in implementing the seven-year plan targets for construction[238][240]
Russia: Medal "In Commemoration of the 1000th Anniversary of Kazan" (2006)
Soviet Union: Jubilee Medal "In Commemoration of the 100th Anniversary of the Birth of Vladimir Ilyich Lenin" (November 1969)
Soviet Union: Jubilee Medal "Thirty Years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945" (April 1975)
Soviet Union: Jubilee Medal "60 Years of the Armed Forces of the USSR" (January 1978)
Soviet Union: Gold Medal, Exhibition of Economic Achievements (October 1981)[241]
Russia: Medal – "In memory of the army as a volunteer" (March 2012, posthumous) – for a high contribution to the remembrance of the Great Patriotic War, with respect for the history of the Russian state, and for his contribution to the preservation of names of victims in conflicts in defence of the homeland[242]
Foreign awards
Belarus: Order of Francysk Skaryna (31 December 1999) – for his great personal contribution to the development and strengthening of Belarusian-Russian cooperation[238]
Kazakhstan: Order of the Golden Eagle (1997)
Ukraine: Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise, 1st class (22 January 2000) – for his significant personal contribution to the development of Ukrainian-Russian cooperation
Italy: Knight Grand Cross with collar of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic (1991)
Latvia: Order of the Three Stars, 1st class (2006)
Palestine: Order "Bethlehem 2000" (2000)
France: Knight Grand Cross of the Legion of Honour (France)[243]
South Africa: Order of Good Hope, 1st class (1999)
Lithuania: Medal of 13 January (9 January 1992)
Lithuania: Grand Cross of the Order of the Cross of Vytis (10 June 2011, posthumous)
Mongolia: Order "For Personal Courage" (18 October 2001)
Departmental awards
Russia: Gorchakov Commemorative Medal (Russian Foreign Ministry, 1998)[238]
International Olympic Committee: Golden Olympic Order (International Olympic Committee, 1993)
Religious awards
Russia: Order of Saint Blessed Grand Prince Dmitry Donskoy, 1st class (Russian Orthodox Church, 2006)
Greece: Chevalier of the Order of the Chain of the Holy Sepulchre (Greek Orthodox Church of Jerusalem, 2000)
Titles
Honorary Citizen of
Russia: Sverdlovsk Oblast (2010, posthumous)
Russia: Kazan (2005)
Russia: Samara Oblast (2006)
Armenia: Yerevan (2002)
Turkmenistan: Turkmenistan (1993)[244]
Greece: Corfu (1994)[245]
See also[edit]
Biography portalRussia portalSoviet Union portalCommunism portalSocialism portal
History of Russia (1991–present)#"Shock therapy"
History of the Soviet Union
Shock Doctrine
Someone Still Loves You Boris Yeltsin
Spinning Boris, film based upon the story of American consultants advising the campaign
Notes[edit]
^ Acting by Alexander Rutskoy from 22 September 1993 to 4 October 1993.
^ In this name that follows East Slavic naming customs, the patronymic is
Nikolayevich and the family name is
Yeltsin.
^ Russian: Борис Николаевич Ельцин, IPA: [bɐˈrʲis nʲɪkɐˈlajɪvʲɪtɕ ˈjelʲtsɨn] ⓘ.
References[edit]
^ a b Aron 2000, p. 4; Colton 2008, p. 17.
^ Colton 2008, p. 14.
^ Aron 2000, p. 4; Colton 2008, p. 16.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 35–36.
^ Colton 2008, p. 39.
^ Aron 2000, p. 5; Colton 2008, pp. 14–19.
^ Сивилов, Ал. (2025). Лидери, авторитаризъм и преходи по примери на Русия и Чили [Leaders, Authoritarianism, and Transitions: Examples from Russia and Chile] (in Bulgarian). Книжен плъх ООД. p. 61. ISBN 978-619-92784-5-1.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 19–21.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 35.
^ Colton 2008, p. 18.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 6–7; Colton 2008, p. 38.
^ Aron 2000, p. 5; Colton 2008, pp. 22–23.
^ a b c d e Colton 2008, p. 37.
^ Aron 2000, p. 5; Colton 2008, pp. 23–24, 26.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 25–26.
^ Aron 2000, p. 6; Colton 2008, p. 26.
^ Aron 2000, p. 6; Colton 2008, p. 28.
^ Aron 2000, p. 7; Colton 2008, p. 33.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 8, 9; Colton 2008, pp. 41–42.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 40–41.
^ Colton 2008, p. 40.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 37, 43.
^ Colton 2008, p. 43.
^ Aron 2000, p. 9; Colton 2008, p. 44.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 7–8; Colton 2008, pp. 45–47.
^ Aron 2000, p. 10.
^ Aron 2000, p. 11; Colton 2008, p. 53.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 56.
^ Aron 2000, p. 14.
^ Aron 2000, p. 17; Colton 2008, p. 58.
^ a b Aron 2000, p. 17; Colton 2008, p. 56.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 59.
^ Aron 2000, p. 16; Colton 2008, p. 64.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 15–16; Colton 2008, p. 62.
^ Aron 2000, p. 18; Colton 2008, p. 58.
^ Aron 2000, p. 20; Colton 2008, p. 64.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 21, 23; Colton 2008, p. 65.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 21–22.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 25–26.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 26–27; Colton 2008, p. 65.
^ Aron 2000, p. 24; Colton 2008, p. 66.
^ Aron 2000, p. 25.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 32–33; Colton 2008, p. 66.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 66, 68.
^ a b c d Aron 2000, p. 34.
^ Aron 2000, p. 30; Colton 2008, p. 68.
^ a b c Colton 2008, p. 86.
^ Colton 2008, p. 69.
^ a b c Colton 2008, p. 65.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 65, 70, 71, 72.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 72–73.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 73–74.
^ Colton 2008, p. 75.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 96.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 75–76, 86.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 76–77.
^ Colton 2008, p. 77.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 77–81.
^ Colton 2008, p. 94.
^ a b c Colton 2008, p. 95.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 89–91.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 80.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 84.
^ Colton 2008, p. 87.
^ Colton 2008, p. 89.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 95–96.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 98–99.
^ Colton 2008, p. 100.
^ Colton 2008, p. 101.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 101–103.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 103–104.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 93.
^ Colton 2008, p. 90.
^ Colton 2008, p. 108.
^ a b c Colton 2008, p. 109.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 110, 118.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 111–112.
^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life. HarperCollins, 2000. p. 132. [ISBN missing]
^ a b c Colton 2008, p. 112.
^ a b c Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life. HarperCollins, 2000. p. 739; ISBN 0-00-653041-9.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 112–113.
^ Colton 2008, p. 113.
^ Colton 2008, p. 115.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 116.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 119–120.
^ Colton 2008, p. 118.
^ Colton 2008, p. 119.
^ a b c d Conor O'Clery, Moscow 25 December 1991: The Last Day of the Soviet Union. pp. 71, 74, 81. Transworld Ireland (2011); ISBN 978-1-84827-112-8.
^ Taubman, Philip (13 November 1987). "Gorbachev Accuses Former Ally of Putting Ambition Above Party". The New York Times. Retrieved 11 December 2014.
^ Keller, Bill (1 November 1987). "Critic of Gorbachev Offers to Resign His Moscow Party Post". The New York Times.
^ The Strange Death of the Soviet Empire, p. 86; ISBN 0-8050-4154-0
^ The Strange Death of the Soviet Empire, p. 90; ISBN 0-8050-4154-0
^ Boris Yeltsin Visits Johns Hopkins – 1989. YouTube. 12 January 2011. Archived from the original on 20 December 2021.
^ В России появились запретные темы // Коммерсантъ, No. 186 (409), 29 сентября 1993
^ a b c Archie Brown (25 January 2013). Gorbachev, Yeltsin, and Putin: Political Leadership in Russia's Transition. Brookings Institution Press. p. 57-58, 81. ISBN 9780870033285.
^ "When Boris Yeltsin went grocery shopping in Clear Lake". Houston Chronicle. 31 January 2018. Archived from the original on 30 April 2018. Retrieved 30 April 2018.
^ "Boris Yeltsin, Russia's First Post-Soviet Leader, Is Dead". The New York Times. 23 April 2007. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ Leon Aron, Boris Yeltsin A Revolutionary Life. HarperCollins, 2000. pp. 739–740.
^ Dobbs, Michael (30 May 1990). "Yeltsin Wins Presidency of Russia". The Washington Post. Moscow. Retrieved 31 March 2013.
^ "1990: Yeltsin resignation splits Soviet Communists". BBC. 12 July 1990.
^ Spero, Joshua (1992). "The Budapest-Prague-Warsaw triangle: Central European security after the Visegrad summit". European Security. 1: 58–83. doi:10.1080/09662839208407069.
^ a b c d e f Kozyrev, Andrei (Fall 2016). "Boris Yeltsin, the Soviet Union, the CIS, and Me". The Wilson Quarterly / Wilson Center.
^ Прайс М. Телевидение, телекоммуникации и переходный период: право, общество и национальная идентичность Archived 28 February 2002 at archive.today
^ a b Brzezinski, Zbigniew; Brzezinski, Zbigniew K.; Sullivan, Paige (1997). Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States: Documents, Data, and Analysis. M.E. Sharpe. ISBN 9781563246371.
^ "End of the Soviet Union: Text of Gorbachev's Farewell Address". The New York Times. 26 December 1991. Retrieved 27 December 2019.
^ a b "Исполнитель. Несколько слов о Борисе Ельцине". Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ Evans 1994, pp. 38–39.
^ a b Nolan, Peter (1995). China's Rise, Russia's Fall. London: Macmillan Press. pp. 17–18. ISBN 0-333-62265-0.
^ Daniel Treisman, "Why Yeltsin Won: A Russian Tammany Hall", Foreign Affairs, September/October 1996. "Foreign Affairs – Why Yeltsin Won: A Russian Tammany Hall – Daniel Treisman". Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. Retrieved 2 April 2007.
^ Gerber, Theodore P.; Hout, Michael (1998). "More Shock than Therapy: Market Transition, Employment, and Income in Russia, 1991–1995". American Journal of Sociology. 104 (1): 1–50. doi:10.1086/210001. S2CID 143545643.
^ Bohlen, Celestine (9 February 1992). "Yeltsin Deputy Calls Reforms 'Economic Genocide'". The New York Times.
^ Kaplan, Fred (23 December 2024). "A Newly Declassified Memo Sheds Light on America's Post-Cold War Mistakes". Slate. Archived from the original on 23 December 2024. Retrieved 23 December 2024.
^ a b c d vanden Heuvel, Katrina (2007). "Yeltsin–Father of Democracy?". The Nation. Archived from the original on 27 January 2017. Retrieved 27 January 2017.
^ Executive decree authority, by John M. Carey & Matthew Soberg, p. 76
^ "Russian Constitution Section One Chapter 4". Departments.bucknell.edu. Retrieved 3 November 2010.
^ Fareed Zakaria (1997). "The Rise of Illiberal Democracy" (PDF). Foreign Affairs. 76 (6) (Foreign Affairs ed.): 22–43. doi:10.2307/20048274. JSTOR 20048274. Archived from the original (PDF) on 18 January 2011. Retrieved 26 February 2024.
^ Way, Lucan. “The Evolution of Authoritarian Organization in Russia under Yeltsin and Putin.” (2008).
Kellogg Institute for International Studies https://kellogg.nd.edu/sites/default/files/old_files/documents/352_0.pdf
^ a b Treisman, Daniel (2011). "Presidential Popularity in a Hybrid Regime: Russia under Yeltsin and Putin". American Journal of Political Science. 55 (3): 590–609. doi:10.1111/j.1540-5907.2010.00500.x. ISSN 0092-5853. JSTOR 23024939. Archived from the original on 24 March 2023. Retrieved 3 March 2023.
^ a b "NATO Expansion: What Yeltsin Heard". National Security Archive. George Washington University. 16 March 2018.
^ "Death Trap". Time. 16 January 1995. Archived from the original on 16 October 2007. Retrieved 26 April 2010.
^ Geoffrey Forden, "Reducing a Common Danger." Policy Analysis Paper #399 (2001) online.
^ Forden (2001)
^ "Олег Наумов, Андрей Нечаев: Пройдет время, и в школьных учебниках истории о Борисе Ельцине будет записано, что это президент, заложивший основы новой демократической России". Archived from the original on 9 January 2015. Retrieved 8 January 2016.
^ "Двойник Ельцина выразил соболезнования". Известия. 23 April 2007. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ a b Moscow Bound: Policy, Politics, and the POW/MIA Dilemma, John M. G. Brown, Veteran Press, Eureka Springs, California, US (1993), Chapter 14.
^ ICAO State Letter LE 4/19.4 – 93/68 (Summary of Findings and Conclusions)
^ Michael Evans. "Anthrax at Sverdlovsk, 1979". Gwu.edu. Retrieved 3 November 2010.
^ Knoph, J. T.; Westerdahl, K. S. (2006). "Re-Evaluating Russia's Biological Weapons Policy, as Reflected in the Criminal Code and Official Admissions: Insubordination Leading to a President's Subordination". Critical Reviews in Microbiology. 32 (1): 1–13. doi:10.1080/10408410500496862. PMID 16610333. S2CID 38270334.
^ "Russian presidential candidate profiles, 1996". CNN. Archived from the original on 10 March 2007.
^ "Gennady Zyuganov candidate profile, 1996". CNN. 7 February 1996. Archived from the original on 2 July 2002. Retrieved 3 November 2010.
^ The Rhetorical Rise and Demise of "Democracy" in Russian Political Discourse, Volume 2. Academic Studies Press. 2022. ISBN 9781644696521.
^ McFaul, Michael (1997). Russia's 1996 Presidential Election: The End of Polarized Politics. Hoover Institution Press, Stanford University. pp. 22, 31. ISBN 9780817995034.
^ Россия Ельцина Archived 17 April 2012 at the Wayback Machine // The Wall Street Journal, 24 апреля 2007
^ Daniel Treisman, "Blaming Russia First", Foreign Affairs, November/December 2000. "Foreign Affairs – Blaming Russia First – Daniel Treisman". Archived from the original on 3 August 2004. Retrieved 8 July 2004.
^ See, e.g., Sutela, Pekka (1994). "Insider Privatization in Russia: Speculations on Systemic Changes". Europe-Asia Studies. 46 (3): 420–21. doi:10.1080/09668139408412171.
^ Борис-боец[dead link] // The New York Times, 30 апреля 2007
^ Shimer, David (26 June 2020). "Election meddling in Russia: When Boris Yeltsin asked Bill Clinton for help". The Washington Post. Retrieved 19 February 2025.
^ Richard, Hélène (March 2019). "When the US swung a Russian election". Le Monde Diplomatique.
^ Gordon, Michael R. (23 February 1996). "Russia and I.M.F. Agree On a Loan for $10.2 Billion". The New York Times.
^ "10.2 Billion Loan To Russia Approved". The New York Times. 27 March 1996.
^ CNN Interactive: Pivotal Elections: Russian Elections; Candidates: Boris Yeltsin Archived 10 March 2007 at the Wayback Machine (1996)
^ "Lee Hockstader, Washington Post Foreign Service". The Washington Post. 5 July 1996. Archived from the original on 19 May 2011. Retrieved 3 November 2010.
^ the-spark.net (19 July 2003). "Yeltsin, "The Family" and the Bureaucratic Mafia". Retrieved 17 April 2007.
^ "Checkmate nears for Yeltsin". Asia Times. 10 September 1999. Archived from the original on 25 September 2000. Retrieved 17 April 2007.
^ "Yeltsin: Russia will not use force against Nato". The Guardian. 25 March 1999.
^ "Yeltsin Warns of European War Over Kosovo". Reuters. 9 April 1999.
^ "Yeltsin warns of possible world war over Kosovo". CNN. 9 April 1999. Retrieved 23 April 2007.
^ "Russia Condemns NATO's Airstrikes". Associated Press. 8 June 1999.
^ Charles Babington (19 November 1999). "Clinton Spars With Yeltsin on Chechnya, President Denounces Killing of Civilians". The Washington Post. p. A01.
^ Michael Laris (10 December 1999). "In China, Yeltsin Lashes Out at Clinton Criticisms of Chechen War Are Met With Blunt Reminder of Russian Nuclear Power". The Washington Post. p. A35.
^ "Yeltsin survives impeachment bid". BBC News. Retrieved 1 October 2024.
^ Hoffman, David (15 May 1999). "Bid to Impeach Yeltsin Defeated". Washington Post. Archived from the original on 9 June 2024. Retrieved 1 October 2024.
^ a b Ian Traynor, Peter Capella (February 2000). "Swiss investigators order arrest of top Yeltsin aide". London: guardian.co.uk. Retrieved 1 November 2008.
^ a b "Transcripts of 'Insight' on CNN". CNN. 7 October 2002. Retrieved 17 July 2007.
^ Colton 2008, p. 1.
^ a b "Russia in shock: Yeltsin quits Prime Minister Putin takes over as acting president of Russia". Deseret News. Moscow. Reuters. 31 December 1999. Retrieved 19 February 2025.
^ Colton 2008, p. 2.
^ Sinelschikova, E. (31 December 2019). "How Boris Yeltsin, Russia's first president, resigned". Russia Beyond the Headlines. Retrieved 29 January 2020.
^ "Putin takes over as Yeltsin resigns". BBC. 31 December 1999. Retrieved 19 February 2025.
^ Sinelschikova, Yekaterina (31 December 2019). "How Boris Yeltsin, Russia's first president, resigned". Russia Beyond. Retrieved 19 February 2025.
^ "Public opinion on the Yeltsin years". Russia Votes. 12 August 2015. Retrieved 7 March 2019.
^ "BBC News – Russia crisis – Yeltsin's health record". bbc.co.uk.
^ Colton, ch. 15.
^ Jerrold M. Post, "Boris Yeltsin: against the grain." Problems of Post-Communism 43.1 (1996): 58–62.
^ Mark Franchetti (7 March 2010). "The sober truth behind Boris Yeltsin's drinking problem". The Times. London. Archived from the original on 29 June 2011. Retrieved 7 March 2010.
^ Tom Whipple (25 September 2009). "Understanding the news this week 26 September 2009". The Times. London, UK. Archived from the original on 15 June 2011. Retrieved 26 April 2010.
^ "Office party: The top ten worse for wear politicians". Daily Mirror. UK. Retrieved 3 November 2010.
^ a b c d Yelena Tregubova Tales of a Kremlin Digger (Russian: Елена Трегубова. Байки кремлевского диггера. Москва. Ad Marginem, 2003; ISBN 5-93321-073-0 Full text in Russian. German translation).
^ Boris Yeltsin, Midnight Diaries, New York, p. 344 [ISBN missing]
^ "Secret interviews add insight to Clinton presidency". USA Today. 21 September 2009. Archived from the original on 25 September 2009.
^ "BBC News – Europe – Yeltsin rushed to hospital". bbc.co.uk.
^ "BBC News – Europe – Yeltsin attacks Putin over anthem". bbc.co.uk.
^ "BBC News – Europe – Yeltsin leaves hospital". bbc.co.uk.
^ "Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin Speak out Against Putin's Reforms". MosNews.com. 16 September 2004. Archived from the original on 16 January 2017. Retrieved 17 April 2007.
^ Yulia Osipova (19 September 2005). "Boris Yeltsin Leaves Ward". Kommersant. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. Retrieved 17 April 2007.
^ a b У первого президента не выдержало сердце. Kp.ru (in Russian). Komsomolskaya Pravda. 24 April 2007. Retrieved 24 April 2007.
^ Ельцин умер от остановки сердца (in Russian). Lenta. 23 April 2007. Retrieved 24 April 2007.
^ "Russian ex-president Yeltsin dies". BBC. 23 April 2007.
^ "Former Russian President Yeltsin dies". Sky News. 23 April 2007. Archived from the original on 25 April 2007.
^ "Former Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who helped bring demise of Soviet Union, dead at 76". Fox News Channel. 23 April 2007. Archived from the original on 28 September 2007. Retrieved 24 April 2007.
^ BBC News Yeltsin to lie in state in Moscow; retrieved 24 April 2007.
^ Tony Halpin. "Yeltsin, the man who buried communism" The Times. 24 April 2007
^ "President's decree of mourning day" (in Russian). 23 April 2007. Archived from the original on 28 May 2007. Retrieved 24 April 2007.
^ Vladimir Putin`s Address on the Occasion of Boris Yelstin’s Passing Kremlin, 23 April 2007. Retrieved: 24 April 2007
^ "In quotes: Reactions to Yeltsin death", 23 April 2007.
^ Colton 2008, p. 105.
^ Doder & Branson 1990, p. 390.
^ Evans 1994, p. 42.
^ a b Evans 1994, p. 29.
^ Evans 1994, p. 35.
^ a b Evans 1994, p. 36.
^ Evans 1994, pp. 36–37.
^ Evans 1994, p. 40.
^ Colton 2008, p. 6.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 50.
^ Colton 2008, p. 51.
^ Colton 2008, p. 36.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 91, 92.
^ Colton 2008, p. 48.
^ Aron 2000, p. 8.
^ a b c d Colton 2008, p. 92.
^ a b Aron 2000, p. 31.
^ Colton 2008, p. 91.
^ Aron 2000, p. 17.
^ a b Aron 2000, p. 32.
^ Aron 2000, p. 15; Colton 2008, p. 57.
^ a b Colton 2008, p. 110.
^ Colton 2008, pp. 87–88.
^ Aron 2000, pp. 23–24; Colton 2008, p. 100.
^ Aron 2000, p. 28.
^ Colton 2008, p. 88.
^ Colton 2008, p. 45.
^ Colton 2008, p. 83.
^ a b Doder & Branson 1990, p. 270.
^ Doder & Branson 1990, p. 278.
^ Doder & Branson 1990, p. 380.
^ Michael McFaul, "Yeltsin's Legacy" The Wilson Quarterly 24#2 (2000), pp. 42–58. online
^ Colton 2008, p. 7.
^ Aron 2000, p. xviii.
^ Colton 2008, p. 9.
^ Colton 2008, p. 8.
^ Way, Lucan. “The Evolution of Authoritarian Organization in Russia under Yeltsin and Putin.” (2008).
Kellogg Institute for International Studies
^ Zakaria, Fareed. “The Rise of Illiberal Democracy.” Foreign Affairs 76 (1997): 22.
^ Shevtsova, Liliia & Eckert, Mark. (2000). The Problem of Executive Power in Russia. Journal of Democracy. 11. 32–39. 10.1353/jod.2000.0026.
^ Cindy Skach, Russia's Constitutional Dictatorship: A Brief History, 29 U. MIA Int’l & Comp. L. Rev. 192 (2021)
^ Colton 2008, p. 3.
^ Levy, Clifford J. (5 May 2008). "Reactions to a New Yeltsin Memorial, as to His Legacy, Are Mixed". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 24 July 2016. Retrieved 26 April 2010.
^ Levy, Clifford J. (14 May 2008). "Russia Remembers Yeltsin". The New York Times. Archived from the original on 27 July 2020.
^ Colton 2008, p. 104.
^ "The Yeltsin Monument and National Arrogance". news.err.ee. 24 August 2013.
^ "Ельцин Центр". Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ Åslund, Anders (September–October 1999). "Russia's Collapse". Foreign Affairs. Council on Foreign Relations. Archived from the original on 27 September 2007. Retrieved 17 July 2007.
^ Paul J. Saunders, "U.S. Must Ease Away From Yeltsin" Archived 10 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine, Newsday, 14 May 1999.
^ Johanna Granville, "Dermokratizatsiya and Prikhvatizatsiya: The Russian Kleptocracy and Rise of Organized Crime,"Demokratizatsiya (summer 2003), pp. 448–457.
^ "Nationwide VCIOM Survey: What is your general attitude to Putin, Stalin and Yeltsin?". Russia Votes. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
^ "Nationwide VCIOM Survey: In historical perspective, do you think the Yeltsin epoch brought more good or more bad to Russia?". Russia Votes. Retrieved 5 January 2023.
^ Wines, Michael (13 June 2001). "Europe: Russia: An Honor And A Barb For Yeltsin". The New York Times. Retrieved 24 November 2014.
^ a b c d e "Ельцин, Борис". Lenta.ru.
^ "Указ Президиума Верховного Совета СССР О награждении тов. Ельцина Б. Н. орденом Ленина" (PDF). Vedomosti Verkhovnogo Soveta SSSR (in Russian). No. 5. 4 February 1981.
^ a b c "Какие ордена у Ельцина". Argumenty i Fakty. 23 December 1998. Archived from the original on 12 December 2013. Retrieved 28 July 2013.
^ "Одна из улиц Екатеринбурга названа в честь Бориса Ельцина". РИА Новости. 23 April 2008. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ "ВЗГЛЯД / Уральскому университету присвоено имя Ельцина". 23 April 2008. Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ "Книги, посвященные деятельности Б.Н.Ельцина – Уральский Центр Бориса Николаевича Ельцина". Retrieved 6 May 2016.
^ "Russian President Boris Yeltsin shows a new Turkmen passport given to him after he was named 'honorary citizen of Turkmenistan' by Saparmurad Niyazov, president of this Central Asian state in Turkmenistan 23 December 1993". Getty Images. 23 December 1993. Retrieved 27 January 2017.
^ "Σύνοδο Κορυφής στην Κέρκυρα -Όταν ο Ρώσος πρόεδρος Μπορίς Γιέλτσιν έγινε επίτιμος δημότης Κέρκυρας". YouTube (in Greek). 24 June 1994. Retrieved 3 August 2021.
Sources and further reading[edit]
Aron, Leon (2000). Yeltsin: A Revolutionary Life. New York: St. Martin's Press. ISBN 978-0312251857.
Aslund, Anders. Russia's capitalist revolution: why market reform succeeded and democracy failed (2007) excerpt
Barnes, A. "Property, Power, and the Presidency: Ownership Policy Reform and Russian Executive–Legislative Relations, 1990–1999" Communist and Post-Communist Politics 34#1 (2001): 39–61.
Barylski, Robert V. The Soldier in Russian Politics: Duty, Dictatorship, and Democracy under Gorbachev and Yeltsin (Routledge, 2018).
Bialer, Seweryn. "The Yeltsin Affair: The Dilemma of the Left in Gorbachev's Revolution." Politics, Society, and Nationality Inside Gorbachev's Russia (Routledge, 2019) pp. 91–119.
Biryukov, N., & S. Sergeyev. Russian Politics in Transition: Institutional Conflict in a Nascent Democracy (Ashgate, 1997).
Boltunova, Ekaterina. "The President has entered the building! The Boris Yeltsin Presidential Center and memorial tradition in contemporary Russia." Ab Imperio 2017.3 (2017): 165–193. online
Breslauer, George W. Gorbachev and Yeltsin as leaders (Cambridge UP, 2002).
Breslauer, George W. "Personalism versus proceduralism: Boris Yeltsin and the institutional fragility of the Russian system." Russia in the New Century (Routledge, 2018) pp. 35–58.
Brown, Archie et al. Gorbachev, Yeltsin, and Putin: political leadership in Russia's transition (2002) online
Brown, Archie, and Lilia Shevtsova, eds. Gorbachev, Yeltsin, and Putin: political leadership in Russia's transition (Carnegie Endowment, 2013) excerpt.
Colton, Timothy J. (2008). Yeltsin: A Life. New York: Basic Books. ISBN 978-0-465-01271-8.
Colton, Timothy J. "Boris Yeltsin, Russia's all-thumbs democrat." Patterns in post-Soviet leadership (Routledge, 2019) pp. 49–74.
Depoy, Erik. "Boris Yeltsin and the 1996 Russian presidential election." Presidential Studies Quarterly 26.4 (1996): 1140–1164. online
Doder, Dusko; Branson, Louise (1990). Gorbachev: Heretic in the Kremlin. London: Futura. ISBN 978-0708849408.
Ellison, Herbert J. Boris Yeltsin and Russia's democratic transformation (2006) online
Evans, Alfred B. (1994). "Yel'tsin and Russian Nationalism". The Soviet and Post-Soviet Review. 21 (1): 29–43. doi:10.1163/187633294X00089.
Forden, Geoffrey. "Reducing a Common Danger." Policy Analysis Paper (CATO #399, 2001) online
Gill, Graeme. "The Yeltsin Era." in Routledge Handbook of Russian Politics and Society (Routledge, 2015) pp 3–12.
Goldgeier, James. "Bill and Boris: A Window Into a Most Important Post-Cold War Relationship (August 2018)." Texas National Security Review (2018). online
Jackson, Camille. "Legislation as an Indicator of Free Press in Russia: Patterns of Change from Yeltsin to Putin." Problems of Post-communism 63.5–6 (2016): 354–366. online
Kagarlitsky, Boris. Russia Under Yeltsin and Putin: Neo-Liberal Autocracy (2002)
Kimura, Hiroshi. Japanese-Russian Relations Under Gorbachev and Yeltsin (Routledge, 2016).
Lane, David. "Political elites under Gorbachev and Yeltsin in the early period of transition: a reputational and analytical study." in Patterns in Post-Soviet Leadership (Routledge, 2019) pp. 29–47.
Lynch, Allen C. "The influence of regime type on Russian foreign policy toward “the West,” 1992–2015." Communist and Post-Communist Studies 49.1 (2016): 101–111. online
Malinova, Olga. "Political Uses of the Great Patriotic War in Post-Soviet Russia from Yeltsin to Putin." in War and Memory in Russia, Ukraine and Belarus (Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, 2017) pp. 43–70.
Marples, David R. The collapse of the Soviet Union, 1985–1991 (Routledge, 2016).
Mason, David S., and Svetlana Sidorenko-Stephenson. "Public opinion and the 1996 elections in Russia: Nostalgic and statist, yet pro-market and pro-Yeltsin." Slavic Review 56.4 (1997): 698–717 online.
Medvedev, Toy. Post-Soviet Russia: a journey through the Yeltsin era (Columbia UP, 2000) ISBN 023150263X
Minaev, Boris. Boris Yeltsin: The Decade that Shook the World (2015), detailed popular biography based on numerous interviews excerpt
O'Brien, Thomas A. "The role of the transitional leader: A comparative analysis of Adolfo Suárez and Boris Yeltsin." Leadership 3.4 (2007): 419–432; compares Suárez of Spain.
Ostrovsky, Alexander. Глупость или измена? Расследование гибели СССР. (Stupidity or treason? Investigation of the death of the USSR.) Archived 30 August 2022 at the Wayback Machine М.: Форум, Крымский мост-9Д, 2011. – 864 с. ISBN 978-5-89747-068-6.
Ostrovsky, Alexander. Расстрел «Белого дома». Чёрный октябрь 1993. (The shooting of the "White House". Black October 1993.) Archived 31 May 2021 at the Wayback Machine – М.: «Книжный мир», 2014. – 640 с. ISBN 978-5-8041-0637-0
Rivera, David W., and Sharon Werning Rivera. "Yeltsin, Putin, and Clinton: presidential leadership and Russian democratization in comparative perspective." Perspectives on Politics (2009): 591–610 online Archived 2 May 2021 at the Wayback Machine.
Satter, David. The Less you know, the better you sleep. Russia's road to terror and dictatorship under Yeltsin and Putin (Yale University Press, 2016).
Shevtsova, Lilia. Russia lost in transition: the Yeltsin and Putin legacies (2007) online
Shevtsova, Lilia. Yeltsin's Russia: Myths and Reality. Washington: Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 1999. excerpt Archived 1 November 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Skinner, Kiron, et al. The Strategy of Campaigning: Lessons from Ronald Reagan and Boris Yeltsin (U of Michigan Press, 2010).
Smith, Kathleen E. Mythmaking in the new Russia: politics and memory during the Yeltsin era (2002) online
Spohr, Kristina, and Kaarel Piirimäe. "With or without Russia? The Boris, Bill and Helmut Bromance and the harsh realities of securing Europe in the post-wall world, 1990–1994." Diplomacy & Statecraft 33.1 (2022): 158–193.
Stanger, Allison K. "Courting the Generals: The Impact of Russia's Constitutional Crisis on Yeltsin's Foreign Policy." Russia and Eastern Europe After Communism (Routledge, 2019) pp. 297–313. online
Strickland, David A. "Overriding Democracy: American Intervention in Yeltsin's 1996 Reelection Campaign." Footnotes: A Journal of History 4 (2020): 166–181. online
Talbott, Strobe. "Clinton and Yeltsin." Diplomatic History 42.4 (2018): 568–571.
Yeltsin, Boris. Against the Grain. (London: Jonathan Cape, 1990), a primary source.
Yeltsin, Boris. The Struggle for Russia. (New York: Times Books, 1994), a primary source. online
Zezina, M.R. et al. A Man Of Change – A study of the political life of Boris Yeltsin (2014) online
External links[edit]
Boris Yeltsin's resignation speech on YouTube
CNN Cold War – Profile: Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin
Archival footage of Boris Yeltsin on Net-Film Newsreels and Documentary Films Archive
Yeltsin and Post-Soviet Problems from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives
Appearances on C-SPAN
Government offices
Party political offices
Preceded byYakov Ryabov
First Secretary of the Sverdlovsk Regional Committee of the Communist Party 2 November 1976 – 18 April 1985
Succeeded byYuri Petrov
Preceded byViktor Grishin
First Secretary of the Moscow City Committee of the Communist Party 23 December 1985 – 11 November 1987
Succeeded byLev Zaykov
Political offices
Preceded byVitaly Vorotnikov
Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR 29 May 1990 – 10 July 1991
Succeeded byRuslan KhasbulatovActing
Preceded byHimselfas Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR
President of the Russian SFSR 10 July 1991 – 25 December 1991
Succeeded byHimselfas President of the Russian Federation
Preceded byOleg LobovActingas Chairman of the Council of Ministers – Government of the Russian SFSR
Head of Government of the Russian SFSRas President of the Russian SFSR 6 November 1991 – 25 December 1991
Succeeded byHimselfActingas President of the Russian Federation
Preceded byHimselfas President of the Russian SFSR
President of the Russian Federation 25 December 1991 – 31 December 1999
Succeeded byVladimir Putin
Preceded byHimselfActingas President of the Russian SFSR
Head of Government of the Russian Federationas President of the Russian Federation 25 December 1991 – 15 June 1992
Succeeded byYegor GaidarActingas Prime Minister of the Russian Federation
Government offices
Preceded byKonstantin Kobetz
Minister of Defence of RussiaActing 16 March 1992 – 18 May 1992
Succeeded byPavel Grachev
vteBoris Yeltsin
1st President of Russia (1991–1999)
Life and politics
Birthplace
Moscow City Committee of the CPSU
Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR
28th Congress of the CPSU
1989 visit to the United States
Death and state funeral
Presidency
First inauguration
Second inauguration
Cabinet of Yeltsin–Gaidar
State Committee on the State of Emergency
1991 Soviet coup attempt
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
Belovezha Accords
Demographic crisis
Yeltsin–Gaidar government reforms
1993 Russian constitutional crisis
Constitutional referendum
"Circling over Shannon" diplomatic incident
Elizabeth II visit
Privatization
First Chechen War
Monetary reform (1993)
Monetary reform (1998)
1998 financial crisis (1998 miners' strike)
List of trips
Impeachment attempts
Elections
Electoral history
1991 presidential election
campaign
1996 presidential election
campaign (Vote or lose))
Loans for shares scheme
Seven Bankers
Soskovets campaign strategy
Xerox affair
Commemoration
Boris Yeltsin Presidential Center
Boris Yeltsin Presidential Library
Ural Federal University named after the first President of Russia Boris Yeltsin
Kyrgyz-Russian Slavic University named after Boris Yeltsin
Tennis Academy named after the first President of Russia Boris Yeltsin
Boris Yeltsin Peak
Boris Yeltsin Street (Yekaterinburg)
Monument (Yekaterinburg)
Monument (Cholpon-Ata)
Boris Yeltsin Volleyball Cup
Books
Confession on a Given Theme
Notes of President
Presidential Marathon
Boris Yeltsin: From Dawn to Dusk
Films
Yeltsin: Three Days in August
Three Days in August
Tsar Boris
President of All Russia
B. N.
Boris Yeltsin: Farewell to the Era
Boris Yeltsin: Life and Fate
Boris Yeltsin: The First
Boris Yeltsin: Retreat Is Impossible
Family
Nikolay Yeltsin (father)
Claudia Yeltsina (mother)
Naina Yeltsina (wife)
Tatyana Yumasheva (daughter)
Elena Okulova (daughter)
← Mikhail Gorbachev
Vladimir Putin →
Category:Boris Yeltsin
vtePresidents of the Russian FederationPresidents
Boris Yeltsin (1991–1999)
Vladimir Putin (2000–2008)
Dmitry Medvedev (2008–2012)
Vladimir Putin (since 2012)
Acting Presidents
Alexander Rutskoy (1993, disputed)
Viktor Chernomyrdin (1996)
Vladimir Putin (1999–2000)
vteRevolutions of 1989Internalbackground
Era of Stagnation
Communism
Anti-communism
Criticism of communist party rule
Eastern Bloc
Eastern Bloc politics
Eastern Bloc media and propaganda
Emigration from the Eastern Bloc
KGB
Nomenklatura
Shortage economy
Totalitarianism
Anti-communist insurgencies in Central and Eastern Europe
Internationalbackground
Active measures
Cold War
List of socialist states
People Power Revolution
Predictions of the collapse of the Soviet Union
Reagan Doctrine
Soviet Empire
Terrorism and the Soviet Union
Vatican Opposition
Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
Reforms
Uskorenie
Perestroika
Demokratizatsiya
Khozraschyot
500 Days Program
New political thinking
Sinatra Doctrine
Glasnost
Reform and opening up
Socialism with Chinese characteristics
Đổi Mới
Governmentleaders
Ramiz Alia
Nicolae Ceaușescu
Mikhail Gorbachev
Károly Grósz
Erich Honecker
Miloš Jakeš
Egon Krenz
Wojciech Jaruzelski
Slobodan Milošević
Mathieu Kérékou
Mengistu Haile Mariam
Ne Win
Denis Sassou Nguesso
Heng Samrin
Deng Xiaoping
Zhao Ziyang
Todor Zhivkov
Siad Barre
Oppositionmethods
Civil resistance
Human chains
Magnitizdat
Polish underground press
Political demonstration
Protests
Samizdat
Strike action
Oppositionleaders
Lech Wałęsa
Václav Havel
Alexander Dubček
Ion Iliescu
Liu Gang
Wu'erkaixi
Chai Ling
Wang Dan
Feng Congde
Tank Man
Joachim Gauck
Sali Berisha
Sanjaasürengiin Zorig
Vladimir Bukovsky
Boris Yeltsin
Viacheslav Chornovil
Vytautas Landsbergis
Zianon Pazniak
Zhelyu Zhelev
Aung San Suu Kyi
Meles Zenawi
Isaias Afwerki
Ronald Reagan
George H. W. Bush
Pope John Paul II
Oppositionmovements
Beijing Students' Autonomous Federation
Charter 77
New Forum
Civic Forum
Democratic Party of Albania
Democratic Russia
Initiative for Peace and Human Rights
Sąjūdis
People's Movement of Ukraine
Solidarity
Popular Front of Latvia
Popular Front of Estonia
Public Against Violence
Belarusian Popular Front
Rastokhez
National League for Democracy
National Salvation Front
Union of Democratic Forces
Inter-regional Deputies Group
Alliance of Free Democrats
Hungarian Democratic Forum
Eventsby locationCentral andEastern Europe
Albania
Bulgaria
Czechoslovakia
East Germany
Hungary
Poland
Romania
Soviet Union
Yugoslavia
Soviet Union
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Chechnya
Estonia
Georgia
Latvia
Lithuania
Kazakhstan
Kyrgyzstan
Moldova
Russia
Tajikistan
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
Elsewhere
Afghanistan
Angola
Benin
Burma
Cambodia
China
Congo-Brazzaville
Ethiopia
Mongolia
Mozambique
Somalia
South Yemen
Individualevents
Jeltoqsan
1987–1989 Tibetan unrest
Wars in the Caucasus
1988 Polish strikes
Polish Round Table Agreement
April 9 tragedy
Removal of Hungary's border fence with Austria
Hungarian Round Table Talks
Pan-European Picnic
Baltic Way
Monday Demonstrations
Alexanderplatz demonstration
Fall of the Berlin Wall
Fall of the inner German border
Malta Summit
Black January
1990s post-Soviet aliyah
Helsinki Summit
Revolution on Granite
Reunification of Germany
January Events
The Barricades
Transnistria War
1991 protests in Belgrade
1991 Belarusian strikes
Dissolution of the Warsaw Pact
August Coup
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
Tajikistani Civil War
Dissolution of Czechoslovakia
Later events
Colour revolution
Decommunization
Lustration
Democratization
Economic liberalization
Post-Soviet conflicts
Neo-Sovietism
Neo-Stalinism
Post-communism
Yugoslav Wars
Pink tide
Related
Human rights in the Soviet Union
vteCold War
United States
Soviet Union
NATO
Warsaw Pact
ANZUS
METO
SEATO
NEATO
Rio Pact
Non-Aligned Movement
1940s
Morgenthau Plan
Jamaican political conflict
Dekemvriana
Guerrilla war in the Baltic states
Operation Priboi
Operation Jungle
Occupation of the Baltic states
Cursed soldiers
Operation Unthinkable
Gouzenko Affair
Division of Korea
Chinese Civil War
Chinese Communist Revolution
Indonesian National Revolution
Civil conflicts in Vietnam (1945–1949)
Operation Beleaguer
Operation Blacklist Forty
Iran crisis of 1946
Greek Civil War
Baruch Plan
Corfu Channel incident
Hukbalahap rebellion
Turkish Straits crisis
Restatement of Policy on Germany
First Indochina War
1947 Polish parliamentary election
Truman Doctrine
Asian Relations Conference
May 1947 crises
Partition of India
Indo-Pakistani war of 1947–1948
1947–1949 Palestine war
1947–1948 civil war in Mandatory Palestine
1948 Arab–Israeli War
1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight
Marshall Plan
Comecon
1948 Czechoslovak coup d'état
Incapacitation of the Allied Control Council
Al-Wathbah uprising
Tito–Stalin split
Berlin Blockade
Annexation of Hyderabad
Madiun Affair
Western betrayal
Iron Curtain
Eastern Bloc
Western Bloc
Malayan Emergency
March 1949 Syrian coup d'état
Operation Valuable
1950s
Bamboo curtain
McCarthyism
First Indochina War
Korean War
Arab Cold War (1952–1979)
1952 Egyptian revolution
Iraqi Intifada (1952)
Mau Mau rebellion
East German uprising of 1953
1953 Iranian coup d'état
Pact of Madrid
Bricker Amendment
1954 Syrian coup d'état
Petrov Affair
Domino theory
1954 Geneva Conference
1954 Guatemalan coup d'état
Capture of the Tuapse
First Taiwan Strait Crisis
Jebel Akhdar War
Algerian War
Kashmir Princess
Bandung Conference
Geneva Summit (1955)
Cyprus Emergency
"On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences"
1956 Poznań protests
Hungarian Revolution of 1956
Polish October
Suez Crisis
"We will bury you"
Operation Gladio
Syrian Crisis of 1957
Sputnik crisis
Ifni War
Iraqi 14 July Revolution
1958 Lebanon crisis
Second Taiwan Strait Crisis
1959 Mosul uprising
1959 Tibetan uprising
Kitchen Debate
Cuban Revolution
Consolidation of the Cuban Revolution
Sino-Soviet split
Night Frost Crisis
1960s
Congo Crisis
Laotian Civil War
Vietnam War
Simba rebellion
1960 U-2 incident
John F. Kennedy
Bay of Pigs Invasion
1960 Turkish coup d'état
Albanian–Soviet split
Iraqi–Kurdish conflict
First Iraqi–Kurdish War
Berlin Crisis of 1961
Berlin Wall
Annexation of Goa
Papua conflict
Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation
Sand War
Portuguese Colonial War
Angolan War of Independence
Guinea-Bissau War of Independence
Mozambican War of Independence
Cuban Missile Crisis
El Porteñazo
Sino-Indian War
Communist insurgency in Sarawak
Ramadan Revolution
Eritrean War of Independence
North Yemen civil war
1963 Syrian coup d'état
Assassination of John F. Kennedy
Lyndon B. Johnson
Aden Emergency
Cyprus crisis of 1963–1964
Shifta War
Mexican Dirty War
Tlatelolco massacre
Guatemalan Civil War
Colombian conflict
1964 Brazilian coup d'état
Dominican Civil War
Rhodesian Bush War
Indonesian mass killings of 1965–1966
Transition to the New Order (Indonesia)
ASEAN Declaration
1966 Syrian coup d'état
Cultural Revolution
Cambodian Civil War
Argentine Revolution
South African Border War
Korean DMZ Conflict
12-3 incident
Greek junta
1967 Hong Kong riots
Years of Lead (Italy)
Six-Day War
War of Attrition
Dhofar War
Al-Wadiah War
Nigerian Civil War
Protests of 1968
May 68
Prague Spring
USS Pueblo incident
1968 Polish political crisis
Communist insurgency in Malaysia
Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia
17 July Revolution
1968 Peruvian coup d'état
Revolutionary Government
1969 Sudanese coup d'état
1969 Libyan revolution
Goulash Communism
Sino-Soviet border conflict
New People's Army rebellion
Note Crisis
1970s
Détente
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty
Black September
Alcora Exercise
Corrective Movement (Syria)
Western Sahara conflict
Communist insurgency in Thailand
1970 Polish protests
Koza riot
Realpolitik
Ping-pong diplomacy
1971 JVP insurrection
Corrective revolution (Egypt)
1971 Turkish military memorandum
1971 Sudanese coup d'état
1971 Bolivian coup d'état
Four Power Agreement on Berlin
Bangladesh Liberation War
1972 visit by Richard Nixon to China
North Yemen-South Yemen Border conflict of 1972
First Yemenite War
Munich massacre
1972–1975 Bangladesh insurgency
Eritrean Civil Wars
Paris Peace Accords
1973 Uruguayan coup d'état
1973 Afghan coup d'état
1973 Chilean coup d'état
Yom Kippur War
1973 oil crisis
Carnation Revolution
Ethiopian Civil War
Vietnam War
Spanish transition to democracy
Metapolitefsi
Strategic Arms Limitation Talks
Second Iraqi–Kurdish War
Turkish invasion of Cyprus
15 August 1975 Bangladeshi coup d'état
Siege of Dhaka (1975)
Sipahi-Janata revolution
Angolan Civil War
Indonesian invasion of East Timor
Cambodian genocide
June 1976 protests
Mozambican Civil War
Oromo conflict
Ogaden War
1978 Somali coup attempt
Western Sahara War
Lebanese Civil War
Sino-Albanian split
Third Indochina War
Cambodian–Vietnamese War
Cambodian conflict
Operation Condor
Dirty War (Argentina)
1976 Argentine coup d'état
Egyptian–Libyan War
German Autumn
Korean Air Lines Flight 902
Nicaraguan Revolution
Uganda–Tanzania War
NDF Rebellion
Chadian–Libyan War
Second Yemenite War
Grand Mosque seizure
Iranian revolution
Saur Revolution
Sino-Vietnamese War
New Jewel Movement
1979 Herat uprising
Seven Days to the River Rhine
Struggle against political abuse of psychiatry in the Soviet Union
1980s
Salvadoran Civil War
Soviet–Afghan War
Eritrean Civil Wars
1980 and 1984 Summer Olympics boycotts
Gera Demands
Peruvian Revolution
Gdańsk Agreement
Solidarity
1980 Turkish coup d'état
Ugandan Bush War
Gulf of Sidra incident
Martial law in Poland
Casamance conflict
Falklands War
1982 Ethiopian–Somali Border War
Ndogboyosoi War
United States invasion of Grenada
Able Archer 83
Star Wars
1985 Geneva Summit
Iran–Iraq War
Somali Rebellion
Reykjavík Summit
1986 Black Sea incident
South Yemen civil war
Toyota War
1987 Lieyu massacre
Operation Denver
1987–1989 JVP insurrection
Lord's Resistance Army insurgency
1988 Black Sea bumping incident
8888 Uprising
Solidarity (Soviet reaction)
Contras
Central American crisis
Operation RYAN
Korean Air Lines Flight 007
People Power Revolution
Glasnost
Perestroika
Bougainville conflict
First Nagorno-Karabakh War
Afghan Civil War
United States invasion of Panama
1988 Polish strikes
Polish Round Table Agreement
1989 Tiananmen Square protests and massacre
Revolutions of 1989
Fall of the Berlin Wall
Fall of the inner German border
Velvet Revolution
Romanian Revolution
Peaceful Revolution
1990s
Mongolian Revolution of 1990
Min Ping Yu No. 5540 incident
Gulf War
Min Ping Yu No. 5202
German reunification
Yemeni unification
Fall of communism in Albania
Breakup of Yugoslavia
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
1991 August Coup
Dissolution of Czechoslovakia
Frozen conflicts
Abkhazia
China-Taiwan
Korea
Kosovo
South Ossetia
Transnistria
Sino-Indian border dispute
North Borneo dispute
Foreign policy
Truman Doctrine
Containment
Eisenhower Doctrine
Domino theory
Hallstein Doctrine
Kennedy Doctrine
Peaceful coexistence
Ostpolitik
Johnson Doctrine
Brezhnev Doctrine
Nixon Doctrine
Ulbricht Doctrine
Carter Doctrine
Reagan Doctrine
Paasikivi–Kekkonen doctrine
Rollback
Kinmen Agreement
IdeologiesCapitalism
Liberalism
Chicago school
Conservatism
American conservatism
Keynesianism
Libertarianism
Monetarism
Neoclassical economics
Reaganomics
Supply-side economics
Democratic capitalism
Socialism
Communism
Marxism–Leninism
Castroism
Eurocommunism
Guevarism
Hoxhaism
Juche
Ho Chi Minh Thought
Maoism
Trotskyism
Stalinism
Titoism
Other
Imperialism
Anti-imperialism
Nationalism
Ultranationalism
Chauvinism
Ethnic nationalism
Racism
Zionism
Anti-Zionism
Fascism
Neo-Nazism
Islamism
Totalitarianism
Authoritarianism
Autocracy
Liberal democracy
Illiberal democracy
Guided democracy
Social democracy
Third-worldism
White supremacy
White nationalism
White separatism
Apartheid
Finlandization
Organizations
NATO
SEATO
METO
EEC
Warsaw Pact
Comecon
Non-Aligned Movement
NN States
ASEAN
SAARC
Safari Club
PropagandaPro-communist
Active measures
Izvestia
Neues Deutschland
Pravda
Radio Moscow
Rudé právo
Trybuna Ludu
TASS
Soviet Life
Pro-Western
Amerika
Crusade for Freedom
Paix et Liberté
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty
Red Scare
Voice of America
Technologicalcompetition
Arms race
Nuclear arms race
Space Race
Historians
Gar Alperovitz
Thomas A. Bailey
Michael Beschloss
Archie Brown
Warren H. Carroll
Adrian Cioroianu
John Costello
Michael Cox
Nicholas J. Cull
Norman Davies
Willem Drees
Robert D. English
Herbert Feis
Robert Hugh Ferrell
André Fontaine
Anneli Ute Gabanyi
John Lewis Gaddis
Lloyd Gardner
Timothy Garton Ash
Gabriel Gorodetsky
Fred Halliday
Jussi Hanhimäki
John Earl Haynes
Patrick J. Hearden
Tvrtko Jakovina
Tony Judt
Harvey Klehr
Gabriel Kolko
Walter LaFeber
Walter Laqueur
Melvyn P. Leffler
Geir Lundestad
Vojtech Mastny
Jack F. Matlock Jr.
Thomas J. McCormick
Timothy Naftali
Marius Oprea
David S. Painter
William B. Pickett
Ronald E. Powaski
Yakov M. Rabkin
M. E. Sarotte
Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.
Ellen Schrecker
Giles Scott-Smith
Shen Zhihua
Timothy Snyder
Athan Theoharis
Andrew Thorpe
Vladimir Tismăneanu
Patrick Vaughan
Alex von Tunzelmann
Odd Arne Westad
William Appleman Williams
Jonathan Reed Winkler
Rudolph Winnacker
Ken Young
Espionage andintelligence
List of Eastern Bloc agents in the United States
Soviet espionage in the United States
Russian espionage in the United States
American espionage in the Soviet Union and Russian Federation
CIA and the Cultural Cold War
CIA
MI5
MI6
United States involvement in regime change
Soviet involvement in regime change
MVD
KGB
Stasi
See also
Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
Soviet Union–United States relations
Soviet Union–United States summits
Russia–NATO relations
War on terror
Brinkmanship
Pax Atomica
Second Cold War
Russian Revolution
Category
List of conflicts
Timeline
Articles related to Boris Yeltsin
vteHeads of government of RussiaNote: Acting heads of government shown in italics. Questionable heads of government are written in small type.Russian EmpireCommittee of Ministers
Vorontsov
Rumyantsev
Vyazmitinov
Saltykov
Lopukhin
Kochubey
Novosiltsev
Chernyshyov
Orlov
Bludov
Gagarin
Ignatyev
Valuyev
von Reutern
Bunge
Durnovo
Witte
Council of Ministers
Witte
Goremykin
Stolypin
Kokovtsov
Goremykin
Stürmer
Trepov
Golitsyn
Provisional Government
Lvov
Kerensky
Russian SFSRCouncil of People's Commissars
Lenin
Rykov
Syrtsov
Sulimov
Bulganin
Vakhrushev
Khokhlov
Pamfilov
Kosygin
Council of Ministers
Rodionov
Chernousov
Puzanov
Yasnov
Kozlov
Polyansky
Voronov
Solomentsev
Vorotnikov
Vlasov
Silayev
Lobov
Russian Federation
Yeltsin
Gaidar
Chernomyrdin
Kiriyenko
Chernomyrdin
Primakov
Stepashin
Putin
Kasyanov
Khristenko
Fradkov
Zubkov
Putin
Zubkov
Medvedev
Mishustin
Belousov
Russian Government Cabinets
Premiers of the USSR
vteHeads of state of the Russian SFSRChairmen of the Central Executive Committee of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets
Kamenev (1917)
Sverdlov (1917–1919)
Vladimirsky (1919, acting)
Kalinin (1919–1938)
Chairmen of the Presidium ofthe Supreme Soviet
Badayev (1938–1944)
Vlasov (1943–1944, acting)
Shvernik (1944–1946)
Vlasov (1946–1950)
Tarasov (1950–1959)
Ignatov (1959)
Organov (1959–1962)
Ignatov (1962–1966)
Yasnov (1966–1985)
Orlov (1985–1988)
Vorotnikov (1988–1990)
Chairmen of the Supreme Soviet
Zhdanov (1938)
Yeltsin (1990–1991)
Heads of state of the USSR
vte27th Politburo of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1986–1990)Full members
Heydar Aliyev
Vitaly Vorotnikov
Mikhail Gorbachev
Andrei Gromyko
Lev Zaykov
Dinmukhamed Kunaev
Yegor Ligachyov
Nikolai Ryzhkov
Mikhail Solomentsev
Viktor Chebrikov
Eduard Shevardnadze
Volodymyr Shcherbytsky
Alexander Yakovlev
Viktor Nikonov
Nikolay Slyunkov
Vadim Medvedev
Yuri Maslyukov
Vladimir Kryuchkov
Vladimir Ivashko
Candidate members
Pyotr Demichev
Vladimir Dolgikh
Boris Yeltsin
Nikolay Slyunkov
Sergey Sokolov
Nikolai Talyzin
Yuri Solovyev
Alexander Yakovlev
Dmitry Yazov
Yuri Maslyukov
Georgy Razumovsky
Alexandra Biryukova
Alexander Vlasov
Anatoly Lukyanov
Yevgeny Primakov
Boris Pugo
vte26th Politburo of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (1981–1986)Full members
Yuri Andropov
Leonid Brezhnev
Mikhail Gorbachev
Viktor Grishin
Andrei Gromyko
Andrei Kirilenko
Dinmukhamed Kunaev
Arvīds Pelše
Grigory Romanov
Mikhail Suslov
Nikolai Tikhonov
Dmitry Ustinov
Heydar Aliyev
Konstantin Chernenko
Volodymyr Shcherbytsky
Vitaly Vorotnikov
Mikhail Solomentsev
Viktor Chebrikov
Yegor Ligachyov
Nikolai Ryzhkov
Eduard Shevardnadze
Candidate members
Heydar Aliyev
Pyotr Demichev
Tikhon Kiselyov
Vasili Kuznetsov
Boris Ponomarev
Sharof Rashidov
Mikhail Solomentsev
Eduard Shevardnadze
Vladimir Dolgikh
Vitaly Vorotnikov
Viktor Chebrikov
Sergey Sokolov
Nikolai Talyzin
Boris Yeltsin
vteCandidates in the 1991 Russian presidential electionWinner
Boris Yeltsin / Alexander Rutskoy (Independent) campaign
Other candidates
Nikolai Ryzhkov / Boris Gromov (Communist Party) campaign
Vladimir Zhirinovsky / Andrey Zavidiya (Liberal Democratic Party) campaign
Aman Tuleyev / Viktor Bocharov (Independent)
Albert Makashov / Aleksei Sergeyev (Independent)
Vadim Bakatin / Ramazan Abdulatipov (Independent) campaign
vteCandidates in the 1996 Russian presidential electionWinner
Boris Yeltsin Independent
campaign
Lost in runoff
Gennady Zyuganov Communist Party
campaign
Other candidates
Alexander Lebed KRO (campaign)
Grigory Yavlinsky Yabloko (campaign)
Vladimir Zhirinovsky LDPR (campaign)
Svyatoslav Fyodorov PST
Mikhail Gorbachev Independent (campaign)
Martin Shakkum Independent
Yury Vlasov Independent
Vladimir Bryntsalov Independent
Withdrew
Aman Tuleyev Independent
Viktor Chechevatov Independent
vteChechen–Russian conflict
First Chechen War (1994–1996)
War in Dagestan (1999)
Second Chechen War (1999–2009)
Insurgency in Ingushetia (2007–2015)
Insurgency in the North Caucasus (2009–2017)
First Chechen War
Battle of Dolinskoye
Battle of Khankala
Battle of Grozny (1994–1995)
1995 Shali cluster bomb attack
Samashki massacre
Shatoy ambush
Battle of Grozny (August 1996)
Khasavyurt Accord
Russia–Chechnya Peace Treaty
Second Chechen War
1999 Russian bombing of Chechnya
Battle of Grozny (1999–2000)
Battle for Height 776
Battle of Komsomolskoye
2000 Zhani-Vedeno ambush
2002 Khankala Mi-26 crash
2004 Nazran raid
2004 raid on Grozny
2005 raid on Nalchik
Counter-insurgency operations
Guerrilla phase
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
Major attacks
1995 Budyonnovsk hospital hostage crisis
1996 Black Sea hostage crisis
MV Avrasya hijacking
1996 Kizlyar hostage crisis
1999 Vladikavkaz bombing
1999 Russian apartment bombings
1999 Tukhchar massacre
2002 Moscow theater hostage crisis
2002 Grozny truck bombing
2003 Mozdok bombing
2003 Tushino bombing
2004 Moscow Metro bombing
2004 Russian aircraft bombings
2004 Beslan school siege
2008 Vladikavkaz bombing
2009 Nevsky Express bombing
2010 Moscow Metro bombings
Domodedovo International Airport bombing
2012 Makhachkala attack
2014 Grozny bombing
2017 Saint Petersburg Metro bombing
Crocus City Hall attack
2024 Dagestan attacks
Related topics
Chechen Revolution
Battle of Grozny (November 1994)
Censorship of Chechnya coverage
Crimes and terrorism
Mass graves
Suicide attacks
Assassinations
Casualties
Aircraft losses
International response
First Chechen War
Second Chechen War
Politics of Chechnya
Chechenpress
Kavkaz Center
Chechen genocide
Wars in culture
List of films
Polina Zherebtsova's Journal
War
The 3 Rooms of Melancholia
The Pathologies
Alexandra
Angel of Grozny
Ant in a Glass Jar
The Search
FederalistsCombatants
Russian Federation
Armed Forces
Ground Forces
Ministry of Internal Affairs
OMON
ODON
Internal Troops
Federal Security Service
Main Intelligence Directorate
Special Forces (Spetsnaz)
Republic of Chechnya
Kadyrovites
Leaders
Russian Federation
Boris Yeltsin
Dmitry Medvedev
Vladimir Putin
Alexander Lebed
Pavel Grachev
Gennady Troshev
Chechnya
† Akhmad Kadyrov
Alu Alkhanov
Ramzan Kadyrov
† Dzhabrail Yamadayev
† Ruslan Yamadayev
† Sulim Yamadayev
SeparatistsCombatants
Chechen Republic of Ichkeria
Caucasian Front
Vilayat Dagestan
Vilayat Galgayche
Vilayat Nokhchicho
United Vilayat of Kabarda, Balkaria and Karachay
Vilayat Cherkessia
Vilayat Iriston
Islamic Djamaat of Dagestan
Liberation Army of Dagestan
Alperen Hearths
Grey Wolves
Leaders
† Dzhokhar Dudayev
† Zelimkhan Yandarbiyev
† Aslan Maskhadov
† Abdul-Halim Sadulayev
† Ruslan Gelayev
† Shamil Basayev
† Arbi Barayev
† Salman Raduyev
Akhmed Zakayev
† Turpal-Ali Atgeriyev
† Vakha Arsanov
Ilyas Akhmadov
† Movsar Barayev
† Muslim Atayev
† Rasul Makasharipov
† Ilyas Gorchkhanov
† Rappani Khalilov
MujahideenCombatants
Caucasus Emirate
Mujahideen
Islamic International Brigade
Riyad-us Saliheen
Islamic State – Caucasus Province
Leaders
† Magomed Suleimanov
† Aliaskhab Kebekov
† Dokka Umarov
Aslambek Vadalov
(POW) Ali Taziev
† Anzor Astemirov
† Supyan Abdullayev
† Aslan Byutukayev
Movladi Udugov
† Khuseyn Gakayev
(POW) Tarkhan Gaziyev
† Said Buryatsky
† Magomed Vagabov
† Rustam Asildarov
† Asker Dzhappuyev
† Arthur Getagazhev
† Ibn al-Khattab
† Abu al-Walid
† Abu Hafs al-Urduni
† Muhannad
† Abdulla Kurd
† Zalim Shebzukhov
Bibliographies
Bibliography of Russian history (1991–present)
Bibliography of the history of the Caucasus
vteNagorno-Karabakh conflictBackground
Nagorno-Karabakh
History
Armenian–Azerbaijani war (1918–1920)
Deportation of Azerbaijanis from Armenia
Dissolution of the Soviet Union
Wars in the Caucasus
Karabakh movement
Miatsum
Armenians in Azerbaijan
Armenians in Baku
Azerbaijanis in Armenia
Anti-Armenian sentiment in Azerbaijan
Armenia–Azerbaijan relations
First war (1988–1994)
Çardaqlı clash
Askeran clash
Sumgait pogrom
Gugark pogrom
Zvartnots Airport clash
Shusha and Stepanakert pogroms
Kirovabad pogrom
Il-76 crash near Leninakan (1988)
Baku pogrom
Bağanis Ayrum
1990 Tbilisi–Agdam bus bombing
Operation Ring
Voskepar massacre
Battle of Togh
1991 Azerbaijani Mil Mi-8 shootdown
Law on Abolishment of Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast
Siege of Stepanakert
Operation Dashalty
1992 Azerbaijani Mil Mi-8 shootdown
Capture of Gushchular and Malibeyli
Capture of Garadaghly
Khojaly massacre
Maraga massacre
Capture of Shusha
Capture of Artsvashen
Operation Goranboy
Mardakert and Martuni Offensives
Operation Həsənqaya
Battle of Lachin
Operation Qazançı
1993 Azerbaijani coup d'état
Battle of Kalbajar
Battle of Aghdam
1993 Summer Offensives
Operation Geghamasar
Operation Horadiz
Operation Kalbajar
1994 Baku Metro bombings
1994 Iranian Air Force C-130 shootdown
1994 Bagratashen bombing
Refugees in Azerbaijan
Interwar clashes
2008 Mardakert clashes
January 2009 Agdam military incident
September 2009 Agdam military incident
2010 Nagorno-Karabakh clashes
2010 Mardakert clashes
2012 Armenian–Azerbaijani border clashes
2014 Armenian–Azerbaijani clashes
2014 Armenian Mil Mi-24 shootdown
2016 Odundağ clashes
2016 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict
2017 Nagorno-Karabakh conflict
Shelling of Alxanlı
2018 Armenian–Azerbaijani clashes
2019 clash near Chinari
July 2020 Armenian–Azerbaijani clashes
Incidents
Protests in Azerbaijan
Reactions
Second war (2020)
Timeline
Casualties
International reactions
Allegations of third-party involvement
Madagiz offensive
Aras Valley campaign
Bombardments (Barda, Ganja, Ghazanchetsots Cathedral, Martuni, Stepanakert, Tartar)
Battle of Hadrut
Lachin offensive
Battle of Shusha
Russian Mil Mi-24 shootdown
War crimes
Treatment of Armenian POWs
Post-ceasefire events
2020–2021 Armenian protests
Chaylaggala and Hin Tagher
Border crisis
September 2022 escalation
Susuzluq
Shusha
Farukh
2022 Armenian protests
Blockade of Nagorno-Karabakh
2023 Azerbaijani offensive
Protests in Armenia
Flight of Nagorno-Karabakh Armenians
Berkadzor fuel depot explosion
Peace process
Baker rules
Bishkek Protocol
Tehran Communiqué
Zheleznovodsk Communiqué
OSCE Minsk Group
Prague Process
Madrid Principles
2020 ceasefire agreement
2020–2024 monitoring and peacekeeping
Russia
OSCE
EU
EUMCAP Oct–Dec 2022
EUPAT Dec 2022–Jan 2023
EUMA Feb 2023–present
2023 ceasefire agreement
2025 peace agreement
Zangezur corridor
Main locations
Administrative divisions of the Republic of Artsakh
Stepanakert
Askeran Province
Hadrut Province
Kashatagh Province
Martakert Province
Martuni Province
Shahumyan Province
Shushi Province
Armenian-occupied territories
Aghdam District
Fuzuli District
Jabrayil District
Kalbajar District
Lachin District
Lachin corridor
Qubadli District
Zangilan District
Political leaders
Armenia
Levon Ter-Petrosyan
Robert Kocharyan
Serzh Sargsyan
Nikol Pashinyan
Republic of Artsakh
Artur Mkrtchyan
Robert Kocharyan
Leonard Petrosyan
Arkadi Ghukasyan
Bako Sahakyan
Arayik Harutyunyan
Samvel Shahramanyan
Azerbaijan
Ayaz Mutallibov
Abulfaz Elchibey
Heydar Aliyev
Ilham Aliyev
Azerbaijani Community of Nagorno-Karabakh
Bayram Safarov
Nizami Bahmanov
Tural Ganjaliyev
Russia
Mikhail Gorbachev
Boris Yeltsin
Vladimir Putin
Turkey
Turgut Özal
Recep Tayyip Erdoğan
Military leaders
Armenia
Vazgen Sargsyan
Gurgen Dalibaltayan
Norat Ter-Grigoryants
Jirair Sefilian
Tiran Khachatryan
Seyran Ohanyan
Republic of Artsakh
Samvel Babayan
Kristapor Ivanyan
Arkady Ter-Tadevosyan
Monte Melkonian
Jalal Harutyunyan
Mikael Arzumanyan
Azerbaijan
Isgandar Hamidov
Rahim Gaziyev
Surat Huseynov
Valeh Barshadly
Mais Barkhudarov
Hikmat Mirzayev
Hikmat Hasanov
Russia
Viktor Polyanichko
Pavel Grachev
Rustam Muradov
Chechen Republic of Ichkeria
Shamil Basayev
Afghanistan
Gulbuddin Hekmatyar
International documents
Astrakhan Declaration
Nagorno-Karabakh Declaration
NATO Lisbon Summit Declaration
OIC Resolution 10/11
OIC Resolution 10/37
PACE Resolution 1416
PACE Resolution 2085
UNGA Resolution 48/114
UNGA Resolution 60/285
UNGA Resolution 62/243
UNSC resolutions
822
853
874
884
Boris Yeltsin at Wikipedia's sister projects:Definitions from WiktionaryMedia from CommonsNews from WikinewsQuotations from WikiquoteData from Wikidata
Portals: Biography Politics Russia Soviet Union Europe Asia
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFFASTWorldCatNationalGermanyUnited StatesFranceBnF dataJapanAustraliaCzech RepublicRussiaSpainNetherlandsNorwayLatviaCroatiaKoreaSwedenPolandIsraelFinlandCataloniaBelgiumAcademicsCiNiiPeopleTroveDeutsche BiographieDDBOtherIdRefNARASNACEncyclopedia of Modern UkraineYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Boris_Yeltsin&oldid=1311643488"
Categories: Boris Yeltsin1931 births2007 deaths20th-century presidents in Europe20th-century presidents of Russia20th-century Russian politiciansBurials at Novodevichy CemeteryCandidates in the 1991 Russian presidential electionCandidates in the 1996 Russian presidential electionCandidates of the Politburo of the 26th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet UnionCandidates of the Politburo of the 27th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet UnionConverts to Eastern Orthodoxy from atheism or agnosticismDeaths from congestive heart failureEleventh convocation members of the Soviet of the UnionGrand Cross of the Legion of HonourGrand Crosses of the Order of the Cross of VytisHeads of government of the Russian FederationHeads of government of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist RepublicImpeached presidentsKnights Grand Cross with Collar of the Order of Merit of the Italian RepublicMembers of the Central Committee of the 26th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet UnionMembers of the Central Committee of the 27th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet UnionMembers of the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet UnionMembers of the Secretariat of the 26th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet UnionMembers of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet UnionMinisters of defence of RussiaPeople from Sverdlovsk OblastPeople of the 1991 Soviet coup d'état attemptPeople's commissars and ministers of the Soviet UnionPerestroikaPresidents of RussiaPresidium of the Supreme SovietRecipients of the Order "For Merit to the Fatherland", 1st classRecipients of the Order of Francysk SkarynaRecipients of the Order of LeninRecipients of the Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise, 1st classRecipients of the Order of Saint Righteous Grand Duke Dmitry Donskoy, 1st classRecipients of the Order of the Red Banner of LabourResigned Communist Party of the Soviet Union membersRussian amputeesRussian anti-communistsRussian civil engineersRussian democracy activistsRussian liberalsRussian nationalistsRussian Orthodox Christians from the Soviet UnionSoviet anti-communistsSoviet colonelsSoviet men's volleyball playersSoviet reformersSoviet volleyball coachesTenth convocation members of the Soviet of the UnionHidden categories: Pages using the Phonos extensionArticles containing Russian-language textPages with Russian IPAPages including recorded pronunciationsCS1 Bulgarian-language sources (bg)Pages with missing ISBNsWebarchive template archiveis linksWebarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from April 2016CS1: unfit URLCS1 uses Russian-language script (ru)CS1 Russian-language sources (ru)CS1 Greek-language sources (el)Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from February 2025Articles with hAudio microformatsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2018Articles with unsourced statements from July 2022All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2024People appearing on C-SPANPages using Sister project links with hidden wikidataArticles containing video clips
This page was last edited on 16 September 2025, at 05:48 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Boris Yeltsin
134 languages
Add topic