Andrés Galante on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Andrés Galante
I am Bootstrap's Core Team member, an Eclipse Foundation Committer and I am currently leading the team that works to improve the developer experience at Auth0.
Twitter: @andresgalante
@andresgalante
·
andresgalante.com
Direct link to the article @media
media queries
@media
The CSS @media at-rule lets us target browsers by certain characteristics, features, and user preferences, then apply styles or run other code based on those things.
/* When the browser is at least 600px and above */
@media screen and …
Dec 20, 2024
Direct link to the article max-inline-size
max-inline-size
max-inline-size is a logical property in CSS that defines the maximum width of an element when the writing-mode is horizontal, or the maximum height of the element when the writing-mode is vertical.
.element {
max-inline-size: 500px;
writing-mode: vertical-lr;
}
CodePen…
Jan 27, 2025
Direct link to the article inline-size
inline-size
inline-size is a logical property that defines the width of an element when the writing-mode is horizontal, or the height of the element when the writing-mode is vertical.
.element {
inline-size: 700px;
writing-mode: vertical-lr;
}
As you might have guessed …
Aug 23, 2021
Direct link to the article CSS Media Queries Guide
media queries
CSS Media Queries Guide
Media queries can modify the appearance (and even behavior) of a website or app based on a matched set of conditions about the user's device, browser or system settings.
Dec 19, 2024
Direct link to the article Accessible Font Sizing, Explained
accessibility font-size user agent stylesheets
Accessible Font Sizing, Explained
The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), an organization that defines standards for web content accessibility, does not specify a minimum font size for the web.
But we know there’s such a thing as text that is too small to be …
Apr 23, 2020
Direct link to the article Theming With Variables: Globals and Locals
bem css variables
Theming With Variables: Globals and Locals
Setting CSS variables to theme a design system can be tricky: if they are too scoped, the system will lose consistency. If they are too global, you lose granularity.
Maybe we can fix both issues. I’d like to try to boil design system variables down to two types: Global and Component variables. Global variables will give us consistency across components. Component variables will give us granularity and isolation. Let me show you how to do it by taking a fairly simple component as an example.
Aug 15, 2022
Direct link to the article 5 things CSS developers wish they knew before they started
5 things CSS developers wish they knew before they started
You can learn anything, but you can't learn everything 🙃
So accept that, and focus on what matters to you
— Una Kravets 👩🏻‍💻 (@Una) September 1, 2017
Una Kravets is absolutely right. In modern CSS development, there are so …
Sep 25, 2017
Direct link to the article Mobile, Small, Portrait, Slow, Interlace, Monochrome, Coarse, Non-Hover, First
accessibility media queries mobile
Mobile, Small, Portrait, Slow, Interlace, Monochrome, Coarse, Non-Hover, First
A month ago I explored the importance of relying on Interaction Media Features to identify the user’s ability to hover over elements or to detect the accuracy of their pointing device, meaning a fine pointer like a mouse or a …
May 6, 2017
Direct link to the article Touch Devices Should Not Be Judged By Their Size
media queries touch
Touch Devices Should Not Be Judged By Their Size
Front-end developers and web designers live in an insane multi-device reality.
A few months ago, the Red Hat UXD team discussed how to design enterprise applications for mobile environments. Sarah and Jenn, my talented colleagues, pointed out that touch …
Feb 27, 2017
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top