Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule Recipe
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Pumpkin Spice Bread
Pumpkin Spice Cake
Pumpkin Spice Latte
Pumpkin Espresso Martini
Pumpkin Spice White Russian
Cranberry Moscow Mule
Moscow Mule
Pumpkin Juice
Pumpkin Pie Martinis
Pumpkin Spice Hot Chocolate
Pumpkin Martini
Pumpkin Cream Cold Brew
Mocha Pumpkin Seeds
Gingersnap-Pumpkin Dessert
Spiced Pumpkin Coffee Shakes
9 Riffs on the Classic Recipe for a Moscow Mule
Pumpkin Milk Shakes
Pumpkin Cornbread
Pumpkin Pie Hot Chocolate
Gingerbread Martini
Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule Recipe photo by Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesBeveragesCocktail
Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule
Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule Recipe photo by Sarah Tramonte for Taste of Home
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 10 min. Cook: 10 min. + cooling
By
Susan Bronson
Recipe by Susan Bronson, Rhinelander, Wisconsin
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 11, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
The pumpkin spice Moscow mule is an autumnal twist on the classic, spiked with cinnamon simple syrup and real pumpkin.
Happy PSL season to all who celebrate! I have to admit that I absolutely love when pumpkin spice season rolls around. Now, mind you, I do show some restraint—and by that I mean I let at least two days pass after the annual menu debut before ordering my first pumpkin spice latte.
However, you can find just about any kind of pumpkin spice product these days. Personally, I like pumpkin spice where it makes sense—as opposed to pairing it with anything and everything—and bonus points if real pumpkin is also used in the recipe. With this formula in mind, a pumpkin spice Moscow mule hits all the right marks. If you love the flavors of pumpkin pie, you will love this Moscow mule variation. The zesty ginger and the tart lime are perfect partners for sweet and spicy pumpkin butter and cinnamon simple syrup.
Ingredients for Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule
Vodka: Vodka is the neutral spirit at the base of the classic Moscow mule. It can be distilled from a variety of raw ingredients, but it is most commonly made from fermented grains such as rye, wheat or corn. Potato vodka, which has a slightly sweeter flavor, works well with the warm spices in this pumpkin spice Moscow mule.
Ginger beer: Ginger beer has a much stronger spicy ginger flavor than ginger ale. The zesty flavor of ginger complements the sweet and mild flavor of pumpkin. Use your favorite brand or try one of our Test Kitchen’s picks for the best ginger beers.
Lime juice: Lime juice adds acidity and a slightly sour flavor, which balances the cocktail. Use fresh-squeezed lime juice for the best flavor.
Pumpkin butter: This cooked-down pumpkin spread has concentrated pumpkin flavor, and the added spices make it taste just like pumpkin pie. You should be able to find it in your local grocery store in the same aisle as jams and other fruit butters. Leftover pumpkin butter great for an autumn-inspired breakfast as a tasty spread for buttermilk biscuits or as a mix-in for your overnight oats.
Cinnamon simple syrup: Simple syrup is a common ingredient used to sweeten cocktails. If you know how to make plain simple syrup, all you have to do is pick up some cinnamon sticks to make this spiced version.
Optional garnishes: The pumpkin spice Moscow mule is garnished with a cinnamon stick, a lime wheel and ground nutmeg. For the best flavor, use freshly grated nutmeg.
Directions
Step 1: Make the cinnamon syrup
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of home
Combine the water with the granulated sugar in a large saucepan. Bring it to a boil and stir until the sugar is dissolved, about three to four minutes.
Reduce to a simmer and add the cinnamon sticks. Cover and continue simmering the syrup for five minutes. Then, remove the saucepan from the heat and let the cinnamon steep for at least two hours. Strain and store the syrup in an airtight container in the refrigerator until ready to use.
Step 2: Shake the cocktail
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of home
Fill a cocktail shaker 3/4 full of ice. Add the vodka, cinnamon simple syrup, lime juice and pumpkin butter. Seal the shaker and shake it vigorously to combine.
Step 3: Strain the cocktail
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of home
Strain the cocktail into a copper mug filled with ice.
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of home
Top it off with ginger beer.
Step 4: Garnish the cocktail
Garnish the pumpkin spice Moscow mule with a lime wheel, cinnamon stick and freshly ground nutmeg, if desired.
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of home
Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule Variations
Add some apple: For even more autumnal flavor, use apple cider in place of the lime juice.
Swap the spirit: There are endless variations on Moscow mules, including versions that use a different base liquor. To make a pumpkin spice Mexican mule, use tequila in place of vodka. For a Kentucky mule, use bourbon.
Give it more garnish: Add a sprig of rosemary, sage or thyme for a pop of color and fresh herbal flavor. Instead of fresh ground nutmeg, you could top the cocktail with a sprinkle of pumpkin pie spice or a whole star anise.
How to Store Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mules
This pumpkin spice Moscow mule recipe makes a single cocktail, but you can easily turn it into a batch cocktail if you want to prepare it ahead of time and store it. To make a pitcher with six servings, stir together 12 ounces of vodka, 6 ounces of cinnamon simple syrup, 3 ounces of lime juice and 6 tablespoons of pumpkin butter in a pitcher. Store the mixture in the refrigerator. Once you’re ready to serve the cocktails, top the pitcher off with 24 ounces of ginger beer and pour it into glasses filled with ice.
Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule Tips
Sarah Tramonte for Taste of home
How do you make pumpkin butter from scratch?
Making pumpkin butter from scratch only takes 20 minutes—and it will make your kitchen smell delicious! Basically, you just grab a can of pumpkin, add a few warming spices like cinnamon and nutmeg, and reduce it on the stovetop until it’s nice and thick.
Do you need to serve a Moscow mule in a copper cup?
Moscow mules are traditionally served in a copper mug. The cocktail itself was created in 1941 at a famous Los Angeles Sunset Strip bar called the Cock ‘n Bull as a way to sell vodka and ginger beer. As the story goes, a Russian immigrant named Sophie Berezinski stopped by the bar with the goal of unloading 2000 copper mugs from her father’s copper company that she had stored in her basement. The bar owner thought the mugs would be a distinctive way to sell their new cocktail, and the rest is history.
Due to the metal’s conductive nature, a copper mug cools down quickly and efficiently pulls heat away from your hands and lips, making it seem as if the cocktail were staying colder for longer. If you don’t have copper mugs on hand, you can always serve a Moscow mule in a highball glass. To help the drink stay cold, chill the glass in the freezer for 30 minutes before making the cocktail.
Test Kitchen Approved
Pumpkin Spice Moscow Mule
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:1 cocktail
Prep:10 min
Cook:10 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
4 cinnamon sticks (3 inches each)
cocktail:
Ice cubes
2 ounces vodka
1 ounce cinnamon simple syrup
1/2 ounce lime juice
1 tablespoon pumpkin butter
4 to 6 ounces ginger beer
Cinnamon stick, lime wheel, ground nutmeg, to garnish, optional
Text Ingredients
Directions
To make cinnamon simple syrup, combine sugar and water in a large saucepan. Bring to a boil; stir until sugar is dissolved, 3-4 minutes. Reduce to a simmer; add cinnamon sticks. Cover; simmer 5 minutes. Remove from the heat; let stand 2 hours. Discard cinnamon sticks. Transfer to an airtight container; chill until ready to use.
To make the mule, fill a cocktail shaker 3/4 full with ice. Add vodka, 1 ounce cinnamon simple syrup, lime juice and pumpkin butter; shake vigorously to combine.
Fill a copper mug with ice. Strain mixture into the mug. Top with ginger beer. Garnish with a cinnamon stick, lime wheel and ground nutmeg, if desired.
Nutrition Facts
1 cocktail: 338 calories, 0 fat (0 saturated fat), 0 cholesterol, 37mg sodium, 54g carbohydrate (50g sugars, 0 fiber), 0 protein.
Author
Susan Bronson
With 25 years of food and science writing under her belt, Susan is able to test pretty much any recipe for Taste of Home. She works from her small family farm in northern Wisconsin, where she also runs a food blog that features scratch-made meals. When Susan is not working on recipes or working as a science writer and editor, she's spending time wi...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box