43 of the Best Movies on Netflix You Should Stream Right Now - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
43 of the Best Movies on Netflix You Should Stream Right Now
Don't know what to watch? Dig through these Netflix movie picks that span every genre.
Abrar Al-Heeti Senior Technology Reporter Abrar's interests include phones, streaming, autonomous vehicles, internet trends, entertainment, pop culture and digital accessibility. In addition to her current role, she's worked for CNET's video, culture and news teams. She graduated with bachelor's and master's degrees in journalism from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Though Illinois is home, she now loves San Francisco -- steep inclines and all. Expertise Abrar has spent her career at CNET analyzing tech trends while also writing news, reviews and commentaries across mobile, streaming and online culture. Credentials Named a Tech Media Trailblazer by the Consumer Technology Association in 2019, a winner of SPJ NorCal's Excellence in Journalism Awards in 2022 and has three times been a finalist in the LA Press Club's National Arts & Entertainment Journalism Awards.
See full bio
Liz Kocan
Liz Kocan has spent the last 20 years covering TV, entertainment and working behind the scenes in digital production. While at VH1.com, she won a Webby Award and was nominated for a Shorty Award as a producer. She has also contributed her writing to USA Today, Decider, Vulture, and many other publications, and has seen every episode of 30 Rock more times than her mind grapes can remember.
See full bio
Abrar Al-Heeti
Liz Kocan
Sept. 11, 2025
6:00 a.m. PT 16 min read
Netflix
In the 10 years since releasing its first original film Beasts of No Nation, Netflix has evolved into a power player in the movie scene, earning honors at award shows including the Oscars, Golden Globes and Emmys. The streaming giant won three Oscars in 2025 and several of the platform's original films have been nominated for Emmys this year, including action-thriller Rebel Ridge and road-trip documentary Will & Harper. Popular films like KPop Demon Hunters, which is now the platform's most-watched movie ever, have also helped make it a reliable destination for hits. Whether you love drama, comedy, blockbusters or quiet, independent films, check out what we consider to be the best movies you can watch on Netflix right now. And if a film is leaving soon, we'll let you know so you can watch it before it gets pulled from the platform. For example, you may want to catch The Departed -- the film that finally won Scorsese his Oscar -- or Friday Night Lights before they leave at the end of September.If you'd rather go with a series, peruse our picks for the best TV shows to watch on Netflix.Read more: Where to Watch All the 2024 Oscar WinnersWatch movies at Netflix
Netflix
KPop Demon Hunters (2025)
The Netflix original animated film KPop Demon Hunters premiered in June and has already risen through the ranks to become the platform's most-watched original film of all time. The film, about a KPop group that performs by day and hunts demons in their downtime, features tons of great original music and stars Arden Cho, May Hong and Ji Young Yoo as the titular girl group tasked with fighting off a demonic boy band. (And the recently released theatrical sing-along version is also available to stream, too.)
Netflix
Will & Harper (2024)
Will Ferrell and Harper Steele star in the Netflix original documentary Will & Harper as two longtime friends reconnecting on a road trip as they address Steele's transition to life as a woman. The film doesn't gloss over the hate Steele receives for her appearance and desire to live authentically, and Ferrell tempers his comedic persona to serve as Steeles supportive friend who isn't afraid to ask often uncomfortable questions. The film has won a Peabody Award and is up for an Emmy in 2025.
Universal Pictures/The Weinstein Company
Inglourious Basterds (2009)
One of Quentin Tarantino's best, Inglourious Basterds is an alternate
World War II history that reimagines what would have happened if a group
of American soldiers carried out a plot to assassinate a group of Nazis
in Paris during the war. The film co-stars Brad Pitt, Michael
Fassbender, Melanie Laurent and Diane Kruger, and it won Christoph Waltz
an Oscar for his darkly comedic portrayal of Austrian SS officer Hans
Landa.
Netflix
Rebel Ridge (2024)
Rebel Ridge is another Netflix original film nominated for an Emmy this year; it's up for Best Television Movie. The action film stars Aaron Pierre as an ex-Marine who, in an attempt to post bail for his cousin, has the bail money stolen by corrupt cops, and the ordeal turns into an action-packed, thrilling showdown. Don Johnson has evolved from playing suave cops like Sonny Crockett in Miami Vice to playing morally compromised officers of the law these days, and in Rebel Ridge, he's earned accolades for playing a wickedly corrupt Louisiana police chief at the heart of the film.
Universal Pictures
Jurassic Park (1993)
With this year's release of Jurassic World Rebirth, there's no better time to revisit the original Jurassic Park film directed by Steven Spielberg. The film, which just arrived to Netflix along with The Lost World: Jurassic Park and Jurassic Park III, was an immediate blockbuster when it first came out in 1993 and has become a part of the pop culture lexicon in the years since. (And where would Jeff Goldblum be without it?)
Warner Bros.
The Departed (2006)
It's almost impossible to choose which of Martin Scorsese's films is his best, but The Departed is the only one that (finally) won him an Academy Award for best director. Loosely based on real-life Boston criminals like Whitey Bulger, the film stars Jack Nicholson as Frank Costello, a mob boss who plants an informant within the Massachusetts State Police. Matt Damon, Leonardo DiCaprio, Vera Farmiga and Martin Sheen co-star in the film that will be... departing Nextflix on Sept. 30.
Paramount Pictures
Clueless (1995)
Clueless, which premiered in 1995, is one of the great teen films of all time. The outfits! The music! The endlessly quotable script! The comedy, which stars Alicia Silverstone as the seemingly vapid LA teen Cher Horowitz, is based loosely on Jane Austen's novel Emma and arrived on Netflix on Aug. 1. We're totally buggin'.
Universal Pictures
Jaws (1975)
It's a big year for Jaws; the Steven Spielberg classic is celebrating its 50th anniversary and to commemorate, the film (and its three sequels) arrived on Netflix last month. The film, which starred Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw as three men on the hunt for a killer shark off the beaches of a New England town, has it all: thrills, impeccable performances and a score by John Williams that might be one of cinema's most memorable ever.
Netflix
The Old Guard (2020)
Based on the comic book by Greg Rucka, the action-fantasy The Old Guard stars Charlize Theron as one of a group of immortal mercenaries who are able to regenerate even after being killed. When they're tracked down and hunted by a pharmaceutical company that intends to study them, they fight back in an effort to protect themselves. The first film, released in 2020, was such a success that a sequel, The Old Guard 2, premiered earlier this summer and features Uma Thurman as Theron's newest adversary.
David James/Paramount Pictures
Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation (2015)
Netflix just released the first five movies in the Mission: Impossible franchise and while we really enjoy them all, 2015's Rogue Nation is one of our favorites. Rogue Nation was the first in the franchise directed by Tom Cruise's frequent collaborator Christopher McQuarrie, and it introduced Rebecca Ferguson's ex-MI6 agent Ilsa Faust alongside Cruise's Ethan Hunt. All five M:I films arrived on Netflix this summer, but they've got a short shelf life -- catch them before they leave on Sept. 30.
Universal Pictures
Friday Night Lights (2004)
Peter Berg's 2004 drama Friday Night Lights spawned one of the great shows of the early aughts but the film stands on its own as a sports classic. Billy Bob Thornton stars as Odessa, Texas, football coach Gary Gaines, whose high school team is more than just a sports club; they're the soul of the town. After the team's star player (Derek Luke) is injured, Gaines has to restore morale and spirit not just within his team but in the entire community.The film is leaving on Sept. 30, so check it out while you can.
Sony Pictures
One of Them Days (2025)
One of Them Days is pure comedy gold. It's the perfect (R-rated) film when you're looking for something silly and fun and packed with great jokes and performances. The movie is part of the "desperate best friends embark on a mission with a deadline" genre (see also: Booksmart, Plan B) as best friends Dreux (Kiki Palmer) and Alyssa (SZA in her film debut) try to track down the rent money that was stolen by Alyssa's boyfriend before the end of the day. When they realize the money is gone, they desperately try to make all the money they need in one day, leading them to sell a pair of stolen Jordans and stage an art show to sell some of Alyssa's paintings. The film, which arrived on Netflix in March, features hilarious cameos from Katt Williams, Janelle James and Lil Rel Howery. Rumor has it a sequel is in the works.
ESPN
30 for 30: June 17, 1994 (2010)
30 for 30, the great ESPN documentary franchise, has put out dozens of great movies that cover some of the most incredible stories in sports, some of them overlooked and others focused on specific, infamous moments in history. One of the best films to come out of the series is the 2010 documentary June 17, 1994, a date that is remembered by many as the day of O.J. Simpson's police chase in a white Ford Bronco. The televised chase would have been notorious enough but what the doc points out is that that date was a huge moment across several sports. Many of those moments, including Game 5 of that year's NBA Finals, Arnold Palmer's final appearance on the PGA tour and Ken Griffey Jr. tying Babe Ruth's home run record were interrupted by one of the most famous live news broadcasts in history.
A24
Past Lives (2023)
Past Lives is the directorial debut from Celine Song, who also wrote the film. Greta Lee and Teo Yoo star as friends Nora and Hae Sung who met as children in South Korea but lost touch after Nora's family relocated to Canada. After reconnecting, the two friends explore their friendship and wonder what might have been had Nora never left. The film was nominated for best picture at the 2024 Oscars.
DreamWorks Animation
The Croods (2013)
Modern animated classics are a thing and The Croods is one of those DreamWorks movies that hits you with laughs, emotions and subtle contemplation. Teenage Eep is tired of her dad's (Grug) strict rules and sneaking out exposes her to someone new. New is an overall theme here in a story about the cave-dwelling Croods when they encounter disaster and are forced to find a new place to live. Grug doesn't always welcome learning new things from a human and Eep's curious, sometimes rebellious ways also contribute to family disagreements. If you like animated comedies with a touch of family sentimentality, stream The Croods and then the spinoff series, Dawn of the Croods.
Yoo Eun Mi/Netflix
Ballerina (2023)
Netflix's K-drama collection has a few hidden gems, including Ballerina, a 2023 revenge story about a former bodyguard seeking justice for her friend. Jang Ok-ju stops at nothing to make the offenders pay in this action-packed thriller. (Just don't get this Ballerina confused with the recent release of the same name starring Ana de Armas, which is also an action-packed revenge story -- that one's not on Netflix, at least not yet.)
Lewis Jacobs/Netflix
Rez Ball (2024)
A powerful story about a high school basketball team in New Mexico, Rez Ball takes viewers on a journey with the Chuska Warriors. When a tragic event strikes the team, it faces challenges on and off the court -- but still aims for a championship title. Co-written by Sydney Freeland and Sterlin Harjo (co-creator of Reservation Dogs), the movie is based on the novel Canyon Dreams: A Basketball Season on the Navajo Nation.
Neon
Parasite (2019)
Director Bong Joon-ho's dark, psychological thriller Parasite won the Oscar for best picture in 2019 (along with the awards for best director, best original screenplay and best international feature). The film, about a poor family who infiltrates the home and lives of a wealthy family, was recently named the best film of the 21st century in a New York Times poll of filmmakers and actors.
Netflix
Hit Man (2024)
The 2024 action comedy was one of several movies starring Glen Powell that helped cement his leading-man status. The film, co-written by Powell and director Richard Linklater, stars Powell as a nerdy professor drawn into an undercover investigation. Disguising himself as a hitman, he adopts a new persona for each client -- until he falls for a woman (Adria Arjona) who hires him to kill her abusive husband.
Netflix
My Octopus Teacher (2020)
2020's My Octopus Teacher won an Oscar for best documentary feature for telling a personal and poignant story of the friendship between a man and an octopus he meets while diving. Filmed over the course of a year, Craig Foster documented the kinship he formed with the octopus who would repeatedly and playfully approach him. The film explores the often unseen personality of a creature found in the wild who ends up giving Foster insight into nature and his own relationships. If you're inspired by the natural world, the film's director Pippa Ehrlich's follow-up feature, Pangolin: Kulu's Journey, is on Netflix now, too.
Netflix
Carry-On (2024)
In Carry-On, which arrived on Netflix in December, Taron Egerton plays Ethan Kopek, a TSA agent who is being blackmailed by a mysterious traveler (played by Jason Bateman) into allowing a dangerous package through security and onto a flight on Christmas Eve, endangering everyone aboard. The film is a thrilling game of cat-and-mouse and has proven so popular that it's currently Netflix's third most popular original movie of all time.
Netflix
Martha (2024)
Martha Stewart is somehow simultaneously elusive and completely accessible in her Netflix documentary Martha. Although she's spent much of her life -- a highly curated, seemingly perfect one -- in the spotlight, Stewart opens up about her most intimate and sometimes controversial moments, from a marital affair to her imprisonment for insider trading. Yet, she always manages to come out on top.
Netflix
Wallace & Gromit: Vengeance Most Fowl (2024)
Wallace & Gromit: Vengeance Most Fowl is the latest film from Aardman animation studio, starring the beloved dog and his hapless, cheese-loving master. The Netflix original film about a robotic garden gnome that wreaks havoc on the man and his best friend arrived to the platform recently and received an Oscar nomination this year for best animated feature.Watch Wallace & Gromit: Vengeance Most Fowl on Netflix
Netflix
The Only Girl In The Orchestra (2024)
The Only Girl in the Orchestra won an Oscar this year for best documentary short and you can catch the 35-minute film exclusively on Netflix. The film is the story of Orin O'Brien, the first woman hired to perform in the New York Philharmonic (by Leonard Bernstein, no less). Often ogled for her looks and singled out for attention because of her gender, she rose above it all, staying true to her creative principles to become one of the orchestra's most renowned musicians for decades.Watch The Only Girl in the Orchestra on Netflix
Netflix
1917 (2019)
1917, the critically lauded, Oscar-winning film directed by Sam Mendes about World War I was remarkable for the fact that it was filmed with the intent of making it appear as though the entire movie was shot as two long, continuous takes. The movie stars George MacKay and Dean-Charles Chapman as British soldiers traveling across a dangerous battle zone rigged by Germans in an effort to deliver a message to their superiors, warning them of an impending attack. The film's stellar supporting cast includes Andrew Scott, Benedict Cumberbatch, Mark Strong and Richard Madden.
Netflix
Ma Rainey's Black Bottom (2020)
Ma Rainey's Black Bottom is dedicated to the memory of Chadwick Boseman, who made his final screen appearance in the film before his death in 2020. The film stars Boseman as Levee Green, a member of blues singer Ma Rainey's band (Viola Davis), and takes place amid one of the band's conflict-ridden and turbulent recording sessions in 1920s Chicago. Taylour Paige, Colman Domingo and Glynn Turman co-star in the film that was adapted from August Wilson's 1982 play.Watch Ma Rainey's Black Bottom on Netflix
Netflix
His Three Daughters (2024)
Genre: DramaRating: RIn His Three Daughters, Carrie Coon, Natasha Lyonne and Elizabeth Olsen star as three estranged sisters who come together in their dying father's small New York apartment to care for him in his last days. Writer-director Azazel Jacobs coaxes some incredible performances out of each actress for this intimate, emotional and often funny study of family dynamics. Watch His Three Daughters on Netflix
Netflix
Rustin (2023)
Colman Domingo earned an Oscar nomination for his portrayal of civil rights activist Bayard Rustin in this film about a man whose legacy has often been overlooked in civil rights history. Bayard Rustin fought alongside Martin Luther King Jr. and helped organize the 1963 March on Washington and the Freedom Rides, among other major historic events. Rustin's outspoken activism and homosexuality made him a target -- not just for political adversaries but sometimes even among his allies. The film explores the life of a man whose legacy has long been overlooked.Watch Rustin on Netflix
Netflix
Always Be My Maybe (2019)
Always Be My Maybe stars Ali Wong and Randall Park as Sasha and Marcus, childhood best friends who grew up next door to one another in San Francisco. The two fall out after attempting the whole "friends with benefits" thing as teens but 15 years later they reunite -- uncomfortably -- when Sasha returns to her hometown for work. As Marcus struggles with his feelings for Sasha, she goes off and dates Keanu Reeves (playing a hilariously over-the-top version of himself), as she tries to figure out how she feels about her old friend. Charming and sweet, the film is a rom-com that's reliably funny thanks to its leads and excellent supporting performances from Michelle Buteau, Vivian Bang and Reeves.Watch Always Be My Maybe on Netflix
Netflix
Maestro (2023)
This biographical film nabbed seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Original Screenplay, Best Cinematography and Best Picture. Maestro tells the story of conductor Leonard Bernstein (Bradley Cooper) and his relationship with actor Felicia Montealegre (Carey Mulligan). In addition to starring in the romance drama, Cooper also directed and co-wrote the film and produced it alongside Hollywood legends Martin Scorsese and Steven Spielberg.Watch Maestro on Netflix
Toho
Godzilla Minus One (2023)
Godzilla Minus One is an Academy Award-winning Japanese-language movie written and directed by Takashi Yamazaki. Set in 1945, the story centers around Kōichi Shikishima, a young pilot dealing with PTSD in a post-World War II era. After surviving an encounter with Godzilla, he and others realize the kaiju is gearing up to attack Tokyo. The Sony film is available to stream on Netflix now.Watch Godzilla Minus One on Netflix
Netflix
The Lost Daughter (2021)
Based on the novel by Elena Ferrante, The Lost Daughter stars Olivia Colman as a woman traveling alone to a seaside resort where she observes a mother and daughter. They send her into a bit of a spiral, recalling her own experiences as a young mother. The screenplay was adapted and directed by Maggie Gyllenhaal in her directorial debut.Watch The Lost Daughter on Netflix
Netflix
Society of the Snow (2023)
The award-winning film, Society of the Snow, is based on true events and adapted from the book of the same name. In 1972, a rugby team from Uruguay boarded a plane to Chile for a game. The plane crashed in the Andes mountains, leaving survivors to contend with injuries, illness, cold temperatures and death. Not everyone makes it and those facing death make agonizing choices to live.Watch Society of the Snow on Netflix
Netflix
The Greatest Night in Pop (2024)
If you weren't around at the time, it's hard to explain just how huge We
Are the World was. Recorded by a supergroup of popular
musicians -- assembled on the fly on the night of the 1985 American Music
Awards -- the charity single benefiting Ethiopian famine victims sold more than
20 million copies and featured the likes of Michael Jackson, Lionel Richie, Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen and Diana Ross. (It feels impossible to imagine so many mega-stars assembling in one room for something like this today.) Luckily for us, there were
cameras rolling the entire time as dozens of the world's most famous
musicians pulled the epic all-night recording session. The recently
departed Quincy Jones proves to be the night's true star, wrangling a studio
full of nerves, egos and a little too much wine to produce something
genuinely special.Watch The Greatest Night in Pop on Netflix
Netflix
Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery (2022)
A standalone sequel to 2019's hit film Knives Out, Glass Onion follows detective Benoit Blanc's (Daniel Craig) mission to uncover a mysterious death, after tech billionaire Miles Bron (Edward Norton) invites friends to his private Greek island. The film features fun plot twists and is broken up by lighthearted humor and aloof characters played by an all-star cast. The third Knives Out film, Wake Up Dead Man, is arriving to the streamer on Dec. 12.Watch Glass Onion on Netflix
Netflix
Leave the World Behind (2023)
An absorbingly unsettling psychological thriller, Leave the World Behind chronicles the strange events that arise during a family's getaway at an opulent rental home. A blackout renders their phones, TVs and other electronics useless and two strangers show up at the door. TikTok has been flooded with clips and analyses of this apocalypse movie, with people reflecting on potential "hidden messages" and real-life parallels. Check it out and see what you make of it.Watch Leave the World Behind on Netflix
Netflix
Emilia Pérez (2024)
Selena Gomez, Zoe Saldaña and Karla Sofía Gascón star in Emilia Pérez, a film that earned a whopping 10 Golden Globe nominations this year and picked up four awards, including Best Picture Musical or Comedy and the Best Supporting Actress trophy for Saldaña. In the film, Gascón stars as Mexican cartel leader Emilia who hires a lawyer
(Saldaña) to help fake
her death so that Emilia can finally live authentically as her true
self. The crime-comedy-musical that defies all labels was also named one of the 10 best films of 2024 by the American Film Institute.Watch Emilia Pérez on Netflix
Netflix
Nimona (2023)
This animated drama, based on the graphic novel of the same name, is set in a futuristic medieval world, in which a knight (Riz Ahmed) is framed for a crime. A shapeshifting teenager named Nimona (Chloë Grace Moretz) -- whom he's been trained to destroy -- may be his only hope for proving his innocence.Watch Nimona on Netflix
Netflix
The Swimmers (2022)
This biographical film tells the story of two sisters, Yusra (Nathalie Issa) and Sarah Mardini (Manal Issa), who escape war-torn Syria. Amid all the strife and upheaval, Yusra works toward her dream of swimming in the Olympics. It's a touching narrative of hope and survival.Watch The Swimmers on Netflix
Netflix
All Quiet on the Western Front (2022)
A World War I drama based on the classic novel of the same name, this epic depicts the horrors of war through the eyes of 17-year-old German soldier Paul Bäumer (Felix Kammerer). At first enthused about joining the army, in spite of his parents' wishes, Bäumer gets a violent wake-up call. All Quiet on the Western Front was a dominating force at the 95th Annual Academy Awards, as it was nominated for nine Oscars and ultimately walked away with four, including best international feature film.Watch All Quiet on the Western Front on Netflix
Netflix
Nyad (2023)
Annette Bening and Jodie Foster both scored Oscar nominations (for best actress and best supporting actress) for their roles in Nyad, the Netflix original film about marathon swimmer Diana Nyad and her devoted coach Bonnie Stoll. The remarkable true story is not a full biopic but a chapter of Nyad's accomplished life when, at the age of 60, Nyad
became obsessed with completing the arduous, near-impossible 110-mile swim from Cuba to Florida. Determined to become the first person to finish the
swim without a shark cage, the film is a story of Nyad's determination, ushered along by the support of those closest to her.Watch Nyad on Netflix
Photo by Carlos Somonte
Roma (2018)
Alfonso Cuarón's Roma nabbed him the best director Oscar in 2018 (the film earned two other Oscars that year, too), a first for a foreign-language film. Its inclusion in the award show marked the first time a film distributed by a streaming platform was eligible for major awards. The film, set in the early 1970s, stars Yalitza Aparicio as the live-in housekeeper for a wealthy Mexico City family as she deals with her own pregnancy, the troubles within the family she works for and the escalating political turmoil in the city around her.Watch Roma on Netflix
Netflix
Untold: Crime & Penalties (2021)
Untold is Netflix's answer to ESPN's 30 for 30 and the documentary series features dozens of fascinating behind-the-scenes stories from the world of sports. One of the very best is the 2021 documentary called Crime & Penalties. It's about a minor league hockey team that an alleged mob boss bought as a gift for his teenage son, who turned out to be a pretty good team manager. Even if some of the movie's main players might be criminals, the story behind this ragtag team of brawling bros proves truth is often stranger than fiction.Watch Untold: Crime & Penalties on Netflix
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.