Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid Mattress Review - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid Mattress Review Wondering if the Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid is the right fit for your bedroom? Here are our thoughts on this affordable and comfortable hybrid mattress.
Written by
Owen Poole
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Apr 27, 2025
Owen Poole Senior Video Producer Owen Poole, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been producing sleep video content in the wellness space for over three years. After earning his certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, he has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest. Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, Owen has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. Before he was writing about sleep, he graduated as a Digital Communication Arts major from Oregon State University. The current mattress Owen sleeps on is the Casper Nova Hybrid since it helps keep his spine in a comfortable, neutral position. When Owen isn't reviewing products, he loves to run, cycle and cook healthy food. Pizza is his kryptonite.
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1,332 at Brooklyn Bedding
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1332
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$1,332 at Brooklyn Bedding
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on April 27, 2025 at 6:02 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Owen Poole
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Owen Poole Senior Video Producer Owen Poole, a Certified Sleep Science Coach and proclaimed mattress expert, has been producing sleep video content in the wellness space for over three years. After earning his certification from the Spencer Institute and dedicating hundreds of hours to sleep research, he has extensive knowledge on the topic and how to improve your quality of rest. Having more experience with lying on mattresses than most, Owen has reviewed over 150 beds and a variety of different sleep products including pillows, mattress toppers and sheets. Before he was writing about sleep, he graduated as a Digital Communication Arts major from Oregon State University. The current mattress Owen sleeps on is the Casper Nova Hybrid since it helps keep his spine in a comfortable, neutral position. When Owen isn't reviewing products, he loves to run, cycle and cook healthy food. Pizza is his kryptonite.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 8.5 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Back sleeper
Combo sleeper
Side sleeper
Stomach sleeper
Score Breakdown
Performance
8
/10
Policies
7
/10
Durability
8
/10
Features
9
/10
Pros and Cons
Pros
Great for all body types
3 firmness levels to accommodate all sleeping positions
Comfortable neutral and responsive feel
Great value for what it offers
Cons
May not be affordable enough for ultrabudget shoppers
Table of Contents
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid Mattress Review
First impressions of the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress
Video: Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress review
Is the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress right for you?
Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress firmness and feel
Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress construction
Brooklyn Bedding Signature performance
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid mattress pricing
Brooklyn Bedding mattress policies
How does the Brooklyn Bedding Signature compare to similar mattresses?
Final thoughts on the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress
Other mattresses from Brooklyn Bedding
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid FAQs
2024
If you ask me for one mattress that definitely offers good value for money, I'd pick the Brooklyn Bedding Signature . I've been a fan of this bed since I first started testing Brooklyn Bedding's mattresses (and the many other online mattress brands whose products have made it to CNET's warehouse).The mattress has a durable coil design, responsive, comfortable foams and a choice of three different firmness styles. The Signature is also affordable, and it outperforms a lot of other basic mattresses on the market right now. I frequently recommend this bed to people in my personal life, and I think you'll like it, too.Brooklyn Bedding offers a wide selection of mattresses, and you're likely to find one that fits your needs in the brand's lineup. It makes these mattresses at its massive factory in Phoenix, Arizona, which I was lucky enough to tour and see how its beds get made. So, if you're like one of the 46% of US adults interviewed in a CNET study who are willing to invest in a better mattress, you may want to consider the Signature.First impressions of the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress
Dillon Lopez/CNETSeveral versions of the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress come through the CNET team's office, and the mattress' look has never changed. While it isn't the most luxurious-looking mattress I've ever seen, its comfort is apparent the moment I lay down on it. The soft, responsive top layers of foams combined with the coils provide gentle bounce with plenty of pressure relief and give the Brooklyn Bedding Signature an almost universally comfortable feel. I was even more impressed after initially testing the Brooklyn Bedding Signature after learning that it comes in three different firmness options. Its low price hasn't increased much over the years, as I've seen with other mattress brands.Video: Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress reviewWatch me review the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress.Is the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress right for you?For anyone looking for an affordable, comfy hybrid bed, the Brooklyn Bedding Signature is hard to beat. It competes on price with beds made entirely of foam, and most of the time, beds that use coils are more expensive than beds that use foam for support.
Dillon Lopez/CNETAlso beds that are this affordable rarely offer multiple firmness options which is a compromise that people often have to make with lower-cost mattresses. I recommend the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress to people in my personal life on a regular basis because it is very challenging to find a better value anywhere else.Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress firmness and feelBrooklyn Bedding Signature feelThe Brooklyn Bedding Signature has an accommodating, neutral hybrid feel. Think of mattress feel as a spectrum with two poles: At one end is a super responsive, buoyant and bouncy sensation, and at the other end is a dense, slow-to-respond, sink-in type of sensation, with lots of room in between.
Jon Gomez/CNETA bed like this sits right in the middle, with a nice balance that shouldn't be off-putting to anyone. That's why it's so accommodating and why everyone will likely find it comfortable. There are plenty of people who prefer a more distinct type of feel -- like a dense memory foam, which this isn't. But pretty much everyone agrees that the Signature mattress is comfortable.Brooklyn Bedding Signature firmness and sleeper typesOne of the best features of the Signature mattress is that it comes in three different firmness options, which is a rarity for beds this affordable. Normally, brands will offer a few different beds with varying firmnesses. The more affordable options are typically the firmest and the most expensive is usually the softest -- this isn't the case with the Signature.
Dillon Lopez/CNETIt comes in a soft, a medium and a firm and in our testing, we found the reported firmness from the brand to be accurate. The soft model sits at a medium-soft, or roughly a 3 out of 10, which is great for side sleepers looking for a plush mattress that provides a lot of pressure relief for your hips and shoulders. The medium model is a flat medium, and our new Mattress Smasher 9000 firmness testing device rated it at a 4.3 out of 10 which is on the low end of the medium range which means it should work fairly well for all sleeping positions, including side sleepers. The firm model is a medium-firm, or roughly a 7 out of 10. That's ideal for back and stomach sleepers and less ideal for side sleepers. So, no matter your preferred sleeping position, one of the three options for the Signature mattress should work for you.Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress constructionThe construction of the Signature mattress begins with a super thin layer of dense support foam, which is only there to give the 8-inch layer of pocketed coils a stable foundation. Pocketed coils are a bit different from traditional innersprings and have almost completely replaced innersprings in mattress design. They provide the same level of bounce and support as innersprings but behave independently and do a much better job at absorbing cross-mattress motion.
Dillon Lopez/CNETAbove the coils is a one-inch-thick layer of "VariFlex" transition foam to provide a buffer between the coils and the one-and-a-half-inch-thick layer of comfort foam above. This foam used to be called "Copperflex," which is soft but also responsive and moves with you. At the very top is a one-and-a-half-inch-thick quilted cover with additional foam. Cooling, cloud pillow-topIf you choose, you can spend up to get a pillow-top to get an additional two inches of quilting on top to make the mattress even more plush. When you get this add-on it also makes the cover cool to the touch with "GlacioTex" material. This cooling factor is noticeable and it competes with the Brooklyn Bedding Aurora Luxe in the temperature regulation category. Brooklyn Bedding Signature performanceEdge supportEdge support refers to how well the edge of the mattress holds up under pressure. Beds with poor edge support make you feel like you're going to roll off the mattress near the outer edge, and it is easy to sleep near the perimeter of the edge if you're sharing a bed with a partner or pets.
Dillon Lopez/CNETThe Signature mattress has solid edge support, and we noticed little compression on the edge. As far as I can tell, there is no construction element designed to make the edges extra supportive, but the coils do a good enough job, and I don't see a roll-off sensation being an issue for couples sharing this mattress. Motion isolationMotion isolation refers to how well the bed deadens the impact of movement on the mattress -- if you're a light sleeper who shares a mattress with someone who tosses and turns a lot, having good motion isolation is especially important. This is only average to slightly above average on the Signature. Coil beds generally perform worse in this category when compared to foam mattresses, and since the foams that this bed uses are designed to move with you while you sleep, it doesn't absorb cross-mattress motion as much as a memory foam hybrid would. This could potentially be an issue for light sleepers who wake up easily from their partner tossing and turning, but it probably isn't a dealbreaker for most people.Temperature regulationThe Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress should sleep temperature neutral which means you shouldn't be sleeping warm at night because of the mattress. If you do sleep hot, it is likely due to other environmental factors.If you are a hot sleeper who wants temperature regulation advantages then I think the optional cooling cloud pillow-top is a worthy upgrade because it really does have a strong cooling factor.Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid mattress pricing
Size Measurements (inches)PriceTwin 38 x 75 inches$665Twin XL 38 x 80 inches$832Split CA King 36 x 84 inches$832Full 54 x 74 inches$999Short Full 48 x 74 inches$999Queen 60 x 80 inches$1,332Short Queen 60 x 74 inches$1,332Olympic Queen 66 x 80 inches$1,460King 76 x 80 inches$1,599Short King 72 x 75 inches$1,599Cal king 72 x 84 inches$1,599RV king 70 x 74 inches$1,599RV king 70 x 80 inches$1,599RV king 72 x 80 inches$1,599
The Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress is one of the most affordable coil mattresses on the market and with its set of features, comfort and performance it is also one of the best values. Brooklyn Bedding is always running some sort of discount year-round and you can expect to pay somewhere around $1,000 for a queen-size Signature mattress, or even less depending on the time of year.
Dillon Lopez/CNETThis price is similar to foam beds like the Nolah Original 10, Leesa Original and Puffy Cloud, and it is more affordable than competing hybrids like the Casper Dream Hybrid and Leesa Sapira Hybrid. Prices do often fluctuate for online mattresses but I haven't seen the Brooklyn Bedding Signature increase in price in a significant way since I started testing beds over six years ago. Be sure to check out our mattress deals page for the latest discounts on Brooklyn Bedding or any other mattress you may be interested in.Brooklyn Bedding mattress policiesFree shippingLike most online mattresses, this will ship right to your door at no extra cost inside of a large box (as long as you live in the contiguous United States). If you live in Canada, you can still get it shipped to you, but there will be an additional cost involved depending on where you live. Unboxing a mattress usually only takes a few minutes, and we recommend unboxing it with a friend to make the process go more smoothly.I have unboxed many beds by myself, and while it's doable, it's much more difficult.120-night trial All Brooklyn Bedding mattresses come with a slightly longer than average trial period of 120 nights in comparison to the usual standard of 100 nights. So you have roughly four months to sleep on it at home to determine if you like the mattress and if it suits your needs.Keep in mind that it can take a month or longer for your body to adjust to a new mattress, no matter how well-suited it is to your sleeping preferences. The trial period begins the day the mattress is delivered, not when you actually start sleeping on it.Return policyWithin the 120-night trial period, you can return the Signature mattress and get a refund. There is no upfront fee to initiate a return, but Brooklyn Bedding will deduct $99 from your refund, which helps facilitate the mattress pickup process. Like most brands, Brooklyn Bedding will ask you to sleep on the bed for at least 30 nights before initiating a return because no matter how nice and well-suited your new mattress is to your sleep type, your body needs a bit of time to adjust to it.WarrantyAll Brooklyn Bedding mattresses are backed by a standard 10-year warranty. This is the minimum duration of warranty you should expect for almost every mattress. How does the Brooklyn Bedding Signature compare to similar mattresses?Brooklyn Bedding Signature vs. Casper Dream HybridThe Casper Dream Hybrid is the base model coil mattress available from Casper. It has a similar style of feel when compared to the Signature, which means everyone should find it comfortable. The Dream Hybrid is more expensive, by about $300 after discount -- but it also features a zoned support design that is slightly firmer in the center third of the mattress to provide more targeted support where your body needs it most. The Dream is only available in one firmness option which is a flat medium.Casper Dream Hybrid
$1,895 at Casper
Brooklyn Bedding Signature vs. Leesa Sapira HybridThe Leesa Sapira Hybrid is another accommodating hybrid mattress with near universal comfort and a slightly firmer than a medium profile that should work well for the majority of sleepers. The top layer of foam is perforated, which helps improve the airflow. The Sapira Hybrid is quite a bit more expensive than the Signature, by about $400 after discount and it only comes in one firmness option but it has superior edge support and more coils in general so it might be a bit more durable over the long term.Leesa Sapira Hybrid
$1,999 at Leesa
Final thoughts on the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattressEver since I started testing mattresses, my opinion that the Signature is one of the best values in online mattresses hasn't changed, even though more and more mattresses get updated and new ones get released every year. It is just hard to beat a mattress that comes in around $1,000 for a queen-size after discount, with multiple firmness options, near universal comfort and an optional cooling cover. There are beds that might be nicer in some respects, but they usually cost more or require some other compromise like not having firmness options, or not having coils.
Jon Gomez/CNETIf you have a budget or around $1,000 for your next mattress then I think the Brooklyn Bedding Signature should be a strong consideration for you which is why this is one of our CNET Editor's Choice picks.You might like the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress if:You want a neutral feelYou to pick and choose your firmness profileYou are shopping on a tight budgetYou want a coil mattressYou might not like the Brooklyn Bedding Signature mattress if:You prefer a foam mattressYou strongly prefer a memory foam feel Other mattresses from Brooklyn BeddingBrooklyn Bedding Aurora Luxe: This mattress is very similar to the Signature because it comes in the same firmness options. It uses the same types of foams, so it has the same type of feel and it also has an optional "Cloud Pillow-top." The Aurora Luxe does include extra foam material underneath the cover, and the cover is cooling by default and has a stronger cooling factor than the Signature, even with the optional cooling cover. This is consistently our top pick for hot sleepers looking for the best cooling mattress. Brooklyn Bedding Sedona Elite: This is Brooklyn Bedding's most high-end and luxurious mattress, and it has a unique construction element called micro coils. These tiny coils provide extra support and bounce but also are body-conforming. Our team has observed micro coils giving off a memory foam-type of feel that conforms to your body. But without the slow-to-respond quality memory foam usually has. Brooklyn Bedding Signature Hybrid FAQs
Is the Signature mattress safe?
All of the foams used in this bed are Certa-PUR US certified which means it's free of ozone-depleting chemicals and other chemicals like formaldehyde, so it is safe.
Show more
Does the Signature have a return fee?
Yes, if you decide to return the Signature mattress within the 120-night trial period, $99 will be deducted from your refund.
Show more
Does the Signature sleep hot?
This mattress sleeps temperature neutral, but there is an optional cooling cover for hot sleepers.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.