Amazon CEO Andy Jassy Is Fighting Against Bureaucracy | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
Amazon's CEO Wants His 1.5 Million Person Company to 'Operate Like the World's Largest Startup.' Here's How He Plans to Do It.
Amazon CEO Andy Jassy says the company will be able to innovate faster without layers of middle management.
By
Sherin Shibu
Edited by
Melissa Malamut
Sep 17, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Amazon CEO Andy Jassy said earlier this week that he wanted to eliminate bureaucracy to help Amazon grow.
Amazon has been cracking down on bureaucracy for the past year, implementing a "Bureaucracy Mailbox" so employees can email in examples of unwanted rules.
Jassy says the mailbox has received 1,500 emails so far that have resulted in changes to 455 processes.
Andy Jassy is trying to reset Amazon's culture by getting rid of excess layers of middle management.The Amazon CEO stated on Tuesday at the company's annual conference for third-party sellers that he wanted to eliminate bureaucracy to help Amazon grow and innovate more quickly. Bureaucracy is not compatible with "startups" and "entrepreneurial organizations," but it is "really easy to accumulate," according to Jassy."I would say bureaucracy is really anathema to startups and to entrepreneurial organizations," Jassy said at the event. "As you get larger, it's really easy to accumulate bureaucracy, a lot of bureaucracy that you may not see."
Related: Amazon Tells Thousands of Employees to Relocate or ResignJassy wrote in his latest annual shareholder letter in April that Amazon must "strive to operate like the world's largest startup" by solving real customer problems, working quickly, reducing bureaucracy and being willing to take risks.
Jassy's latest remarks on Tuesday follow Amazon's attempts across the past year to flatten its organization and eliminate excess layers.In September 2024, Jassy asked each team within the company to reduce the number of managers by at least 15%. A leaked guidelines document in January showed that Amazon accomplished this without layoffs by asking managers to increase their number of direct reports, pause hiring new managers, and demote some employees down a level to non-managerial positions.Managers are now required to have at least eight team members as direct reports, an increase from the six that Amazon founder Jeff Bezos mandated in 2017, according to the document.Jassy also introduced a "Bureaucracy Mailbox" last year to allow employees to email him examples of unwanted processes or rules that could be changed to help the company run more efficiently. Within a year, the mailbox received 1,500 emails, resulting in changes to 455 processes, Jassy said at Tuesday's event.
Amazon CEO Andy Jassy on July 8, 2025. Photographer: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty ImagesAt a November all-hands meeting, Jassy reiterated that he wanted to make changes to middle management to keep the company competitive."The reality is that the [senior leadership team] and I hate bureaucracy," Jassy said at the meeting. "One of the reasons I'm still at this company is because it's not a political or bureaucratic place."Related: Here's Why Companies Shouldn't Replace Entry-Level Workers With AI, According to the CEO of Amazon Web Services
Jassy took over as Amazon CEO in 2021, following Bezos. Under his leadership, Amazon laid off 27,000 corporate employees and mandated that employees return to the office five days a week.Despite complaints from employees and an initial shortage of desks, the return-to-office mandate took effect on Jan. 2.Amazon states on its sustainability page that it employs 1.5 million people worldwide at the time of writing, making it the second-largest employer in the world.
Andy Jassy is trying to reset Amazon's culture by getting rid of excess layers of middle management.The Amazon CEO stated on Tuesday at the company's annual conference for third-party sellers that he wanted to eliminate bureaucracy to help Amazon grow and innovate more quickly. Bureaucracy is not compatible with "startups" and "entrepreneurial organizations," but it is "really easy to accumulate," according to Jassy."I would say bureaucracy is really anathema to startups and to entrepreneurial organizations," Jassy said at the event. "As you get larger, it's really easy to accumulate bureaucracy, a lot of bureaucracy that you may not see."
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Sherin Shibu
Entrepreneur Staff
News Reporter
Sherin Shibu is a business news reporter at Entrepreneur.com. She previously worked for PCMag, Business Insider, The Messenger, and ZDNET as a reporter and copyeditor. Her areas of coverage encompass tech, business, strategy, finance, and even space. She is a Columbia University graduate.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
Taylor Swift and Amazon Share This 'Destructive' Superpower That Drives Serious Success, Says Former Harvard Business School Strategist
'Most Powerful Yet': Apple Just Revealed the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and AirPods With Live Translation. Here's What to Know.
I Own a Professional Rugby Team — Here Are the 5 Biggest Lessons It's Taught Me About Business Leadership
This Mom's Garage Side Hustle for Kids Became a Business With $1 Billion Revenue
Franchisors Have a Secret Weapon Against Rising Costs. Here's How It Works.
This 29-Year-Old's Business Helps Young People Without Work Experience Earn Tens of Thousands and Launch Their Careers: 'You're Not Just Your Major'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Buying / Investing in Business
Big Investors Are Betting on This 'Unlisted' Stock
You can join them as an early-stage investor as this company disrupts a $1.3T market.
By
StackCommerce
Buying / Investing in Business
From a $120M Acquisition to a $1.3T Market
Co-ownership is creating big opportunities for entrepreneurs.
By
StackCommerce
Business News
The Federal Reserve Cut Interest Rates For the First Time This Year. Here's What It Means For Credit Cards and Mortgage Rates.
Officials indicated there could be two more cuts before the end of the year.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Business Plans
How to Create a 1-Word Business Plan That Cuts Through Complexity and Drives Results
Entrepreneurs can replace complexity with a one-word business plan — a simple, powerful theme that aligns their vision, motivates their team and drives results all year long.
By
Nicholas Leighton
Side Hustle
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
Seth Goldstein, 29, and his friend Steven Rofrano got their business idea after a snack break in Miami.
By
Amanda Breen
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC