Author and press guidelines - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Guidelines for authors and press officers
Guidelines for authors
EmbargoesEmbargo policy: PLOS articles are embargoed until 11:00 a.m. Pacific Standard Time, 2:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on the date of publication.We do not discuss any manuscript with the media until it has been accepted for publication and assigned a publication date. Unless otherwise noted, all information provided by PLOS journals is subject to a press embargo whose date and time will be clearly stated.Read more about our embargo policy
Why embargo articles? Our embargoes enable authors to achieve accurate, high-quality media coverage which disseminates their peer-reviewed research to non-expert readers. They ensure that peer-reviewed published articles are accessible to everyone when first reported in the mediaTalking about research under embargo: We wish to encourage communication between scientists. For that reason, authors may communicate research for scientific purposes prior to publication – when an embargo will apply. This includes talking about your research at conferences, on social media, and on preprint servers.Once your research has been accepted and assigned a publication date, it is subject to embargo. You may discuss your research under embargo with journalists and other members of the media, and you should inform journalists of the embargo in all your communications. We discourage actively seeking publicity for your research before that point. If you do choose to discuss your research at the preprint stage, you should stress that your work is still undergoing peer review and you may not disclose the journal where the work is under consideration.Social media embargoes: We recognize that blogging, and many social media sites are powerful tools in information dissemination. If you choose to blog about or promote your accepted manuscript via social media, please wait until the embargo lifts and include a link to your article. If you choose to discuss research at the preprint stage, you should stress that your work is still undergoing peer review and you may not disclose the journal where the work is under consideration.
Communicating your research
Media toolkit for PLOS authorsTo help you navigate the media process, we’ve developed a free media toolkit for your use. The toolkit has information on promoting your research and speaking to the media, as well as further press and media resources.Speaking to the mediaIf you agree to be the contact for journalists, please note that you could be contacted by reporters from around the world. It is important that you respond to their queries in a timely manner as journalists work under tight deadlines. Failure to respond to them could result in a story being published without your input and might end up containing inaccurate information.Before giving an interview, please ensure that the journalist will agree to abide by the embargo. Please also inform the journalist of the name of the journal in which your work is publishing and share the link to your online article so that the journalist may include it in their story. Please note that PLOS does not grant exclusives to journalists or news outlets, and neither may authors or press officers unilaterally grant exclusives.Promoting your research with social mediaWe encourage you to promote your accepted manuscript via social media, but please wait until the embargo lifts and include a link to your article.Additional resourcesAn Introduction to Social Media for Scientists, PLOS BiologyHow social network “roots” help scientists communicate their research, EveryOne BlogCommunication between scientistsWe wish to encourage communication between scientists. For that reason, authors may communicate research for scientific purposes prior to publication. This includes talking about your research at conferences, on social media, and on preprint servers
Guidelines for press officers
Contacting PLOS
If your institution is planning to promote research publishing in any PLOS journals, contact the appropriate journal as soon as possible after the research is accepted. Please copy the corresponding author on all press-related communication.
Writing Press Releases
In your press release, be sure to abide by the following:
1. Journal name
Refer to the appropriate journal as follows:
PLOS Biology PLOS ClimatePLOS Complex SystemsPLOS Computational BiologyPLOS Digital HealthPLOS Genetics PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS MedicinePLOS Mental HealthPLOS Neglected Tropical DiseasesPLOS One PLOS Pathogens PLOS Sustainability and TransformationPLOS Water
2. Organization nameThe organization’s name is written as PLOS and pronounced to rhyme with “boss”.3. Article URLInclude a link to the article in the press release.4. Embargo InformationInclude the correct embargo information-2pm Eastern Time on the date of publication.
Journal contacts
PLOS Biologybiologypress@plos.orgPLOS Climatemjpress@plos.orgPLOS Complex Systemscjpress@plos.orgPLOS Computational Biologycjpress@plos.orgPLOS Digital Healthcjpress@plos.orgPLOS Geneticscjpress@plos.orgPLOS Global Public Healthmjpress@plos.org
PLOS Medicinemedicinepress@plos.orgPLOS Mental Healthmjpress@plos.orgPLOS Neglected Tropical Diseasescjpress@plos.org PLOS Oneonepress@plos.orgPLOS Pathogenscjpress@plos.orgPLOS Sustainability and Transformationcjpress@plos.orgPLOS Watermjpress@plos.org
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top