Need a cheap and reliable switch? This 8-port one from Netgear is now just $17
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Need a cheap and reliable switch? This 8-port one from Netgear is now just $17
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 8, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
NETGEAR 8-Port Gigabit Ethernet Unmanaged Essentials Switch (GS308)
$16
$28
Save $12
An 8-port Gigabit Ethernet switch that's reliable and cheap. Grab it now for just $17 from Amazon thanks to a steep 39% discount.
$16 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
When you think about networks, going wireless is the obvious and convenient choice for most households and offices. Of course, wired connections have an important role to play too, which is why adding a switch to your current network setup may be something worth exploring. And sure, you can always go with something pricey that supports PoE, but if you're just looking to experiment for now, this one from Netgear that's discounted to $16 is going to be a fantastic choice.
Wired connections are good to have
There's no doubt about it, wireless connections are an absolute lifesaver when you're looking to connect on the fly. You just pop in the Wi-Fi password and away you go. And while we love wired connections here at XDA, it's not always the most convenient way to connect. But, as we stated before, wired connections do have a place in your current setup, especially if your device has the means to connect using a physical cable. And this can be for any number of products, like TVs, media boxes, game consoles, smart displays, and more. If they're all in the same general area, that makes it even better and easier to connect them all to one switch. Not only are you going to get a more reliable connection using a wire, but the speed of the connection could be faster too. This is especially important if you have a home filled with smart devices, which is where a PoE switch can become extremely handy to have. Again, this isn't completely necessary, but for certain devices, it can be a game-changer. And perhaps the best reason to invest in a switch is because it isn't all that expensive. This one from Netgear is just $16, which makes it perfect to have a few around the house. If you're not quite sure why you need to add a switch to your current setup, we recommend taking a look at some of our top reasons.
Networking
netgear
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
This Windows 11 repair trick fixes nearly every Windows problem
Sep 9, 2025
Apple proves that thin phone enthusiasts don't have to sacrifice durability for their devices
Sep 9, 2025
6 lightweight tools I install before anything else on a new PC
Sep 9, 2025
Avoid these 6 common Linux mistakes that beginners often make
Today's best deals
The Lenovo laptop we can't stop talking about is now $450 less
10 hours ago
This mini PC with an AMD Ryzen 7 and 32GB of DDR5 RAM is an absolute powerhouse, and it's now $220 off
13 hours ago
This highly stylised RPG with 94% positive reviews is down to its lowest price ever on Steam
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I transformed our LAN gaming setup with a mini PC and free software
Black Ops 7 needs to be harsher against cheating with Call of Duty multiplayer so I can enjoy playing it
I tried this open-source platform to self-host LLMs, and it’s faster than I expected
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.