From a $120M Acquisition to a $1.3T Market | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Money & Finance
Breadcrumb Arrow
Buying / Investing in Business
From a $120M Acquisition to a $1.3T Market
Co-ownership is creating big opportunities for entrepreneurs.
By
StackCommerce
Edited by
Jason Fell
Jul 8, 2025
Share
Copy
Disclosure: Our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. If you purchase them, Entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners.
Pacaso
Auston Allison
The wealthiest companies tend to target the biggest markets. For example, NVIDIA skyrocketed nearly 200% higher last year with the $214B AI market's tailwind.That's why investors like Maveron are so excited about Pacaso.Created by the man who sold his last real estate venture for $120M, Pacaso's digital marketplace offers easy purchase, ownership, and enjoyment of luxury vacation homes. And their target market is worth a whopping $1.3T.
Here's how they're redefining this enormous real estate opportunity and how you can share in their potential growth before this opportunity ends on Sept. 18.:Next-generation co-ownershipPacaso's game-changing co-ownership model is powered by proprietary tech and an innovative structure that eliminates the headaches of traditional vacation home ownership. Here's how it works:
Seamless transactions: Clients easily buy, finance, and resell, shares of luxury homes through Pacaso's intuitive platform.Turnkey ownership: Pacaso handles maintenance, scheduling, and furnishing; owners simply enjoy their vacation homes.Maximized value: Homes that once sat empty 90% of the year now stay occupied nearly year-round, benefiting owners and local economies.And the demand for their services and expertise is real. Co-ownership is growing 21% annually in the US, and Pacaso homes have appreciated nearly 10% since 2021 – roughly double the growth of the broader luxury market.Dominating a $1.3 trillion marketPacaso is leading the charge in the $1.3 trillion U.S. vacation home market, combining real estate innovation with tech-driven efficiency to generate multiple revenue streams. These include transaction service fees on every sale, recurring property management fees, and exclusive financing options tailored to co-owners.The platform's global reach is growing quickly, with recent market expansions in Paris and London. In fact, Pacaso's first Paris property sold out so fast that they purchased a second – on the same street. Now, as they scale, Pacaso's unique model is poised to dominate the vacation home segment.Meanwhile, in 2024, Pacaso also reduced its total real estate holdings by more than 30%, a strategic move to reduce burn and drive leaner, more capital-efficient growth. These operational improvements set the stage for long-term scalability and stronger margins as the company expands.
The opportunity to invest ends on 9/18There are many reasons top firms like Greycroft and Maveron have already backed Pacaso, including:Proven leadership: Pacaso's founder previously sold a real estate tech venture for $120M.Strong growth metrics: More than $1B in transactions and more than $110M in gross profit to date – with a 21% YoY increase in gross real estate volume and a 24% improvement in adjusted EBITDA in 2024, the company says.Surging demand: Forty percent of Americans want to buy a vacation home in the next year (Coldwell Banker), and co-ownership is growing 21% annually in the United States.On the back of continued international expansion, Pacaso is hitting its stride.After impressive full-year earnings showed gross profits grew 41%, they're turning their focus to continued growth and expansion. They even reserved the Nasdaq ticker PCSO.You can share in this growth potential by claiming your stake in Pacaso today for just $2.90/share. But the deadline to invest is Sept. 18.Invest in Pacaso by Sept. 18.This is a paid advertisement for Pacaso's Regulation A offering. Please read the offering circular at invest.pacaso.com.
The wealthiest companies tend to target the biggest markets. For example, NVIDIA skyrocketed nearly 200% higher last year with the $214B AI market's tailwind.That's why investors like Maveron are so excited about Pacaso.Created by the man who sold his last real estate venture for $120M, Pacaso's digital marketplace offers easy purchase, ownership, and enjoyment of luxury vacation homes. And their target market is worth a whopping $1.3T.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
StackCommerce
Account Manager
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
Taylor Swift and Amazon Share This 'Destructive' Superpower That Drives Serious Success, Says Former Harvard Business School Strategist
'Most Powerful Yet': Apple Just Revealed the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and AirPods With Live Translation. Here's What to Know.
I Own a Professional Rugby Team — Here Are the 5 Biggest Lessons It's Taught Me About Business Leadership
This Mom's Garage Side Hustle for Kids Became a Business With $1 Billion Revenue
Franchisors Have a Secret Weapon Against Rising Costs. Here's How It Works.
This 29-Year-Old's Business Helps Young People Without Work Experience Earn Tens of Thousands and Launch Their Careers: 'You're Not Just Your Major'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Side Hustle
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
Seth Goldstein, 29, and his friend Steven Rofrano got their business idea after a snack break in Miami.
By
Amanda Breen
Growing a Business
5 Principles for Building a Business That Thrives When the Economy Doesn't
These five principles helped me grow my business during one of the worst recessions in our lifetimes.
By
Mike Feazel
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Franchise
These Are the Top 10 Children's Franchises in 2025
Discover the family-focused franchises that earned top spots on Entrepreneur's 2025 Franchise 500 list.
By
Carl Stoffers
Business Solutions
One Platform, Every AI Tool You Need for Life
Own lifetime access to the top models for $99.99.
By
Entrepreneur Store
Business News
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
OpenAI released a new study about how people are using ChatGPT, based on more than one million messages sent to the chatbot.
By
Sherin Shibu
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC