Sony unveils first-ever wireless desktop speakers for PC gamers with planar magnetic drivers — sleek design features microphone and battery, also work with Mac and PS5 | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Handheld Gaming
Best PC Gaming Handhelds 2025: Windows and Steam Decks
Gaming Headsets
Best Gaming Headsets 2025
Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Keyboards 2025: Full-size, TKL, Mini, and More
Gaming Chairs
Best Gaming Chair in 2025
Keyboards
Best Wireless Keyboards 2025
Gaming PCs
Best Gaming PCs of 2025
Gaming Monitors
Best Gaming Monitors 2025: Budget, Curved, G-Sync and More
Gaming Headsets
Best Wireless Gaming Headsets 2025: Bluetooth, Budget, and More
Gaming Headsets
One of SteelSeries' best gaming headsets is 50% off right now — save big on the quick-swap battery tech I use every day
Peripherals
Back-to-school PC peripherals you didn't know you needed — hot deals on headsets, mice, keyboards, speakers, and more
Gaming Monitors
Best Monitors for PS5, Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S in 2025
PC Gaming
Microsoft announces super wideband stereo mode for Bluetooth LE devices
PC Components
We loved the SteelSeries Arctis Nova 1 in our review, now you can buy one for less than $40
Tech Industry
Best of IFA 2025: New laptops, monitors, gaming handhelds, and more
Gift Guides and Seasonal Sales
Best Amazon Prime Day Deals Live
Speakers
Sony unveils first-ever wireless desktop speakers for PC gamers with planar magnetic drivers — sleek design features microphone and battery, also work with Mac and PS5
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
25 September 2025
PlayStation Link wireless connectivity promises lossless audio with ultra-low latency.
Comments (4)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Sony)
Sony took the wraps off its Pulse Elevate wireless speakers during its State of Play event a few hours ago. With this 2.0 speaker system, the firm says it will be introducing its “first wireless speakers for desktop gaming.” Obviously, Sony has a long legacy of wired speakers for PCs, dating back to its VAIO multimedia PC days.The new PC, Mac, and PS5-compatible Sony Pulse Elevate speakers use PlayStation Link wireless connectivity, which promises lossless audio with ultra-low latency. Other key features are the inclusion of a microphone with AI noise cancellation, an easy-access volume knob, and battery power for portability.
PULSE Elevate Wireless Speakers - Features Trailer | PlayStation - YouTube
Watch On
This launch will expand the Pulse audio family, which Sony already established with the Pulse Elite wireless headset and Pulse Explore wireless earbuds.
You may like
Best Gaming Headsets 2025
Best Wireless Gaming Headsets 2025: Bluetooth, Budget, and More
One of SteelSeries' best gaming headsets is 50% off right now — save big on the quick-swap battery tech I use every day
In terms of audio performance, a technology highlight of the Pulse Elevate speakers is the use of Planar magnetic speaker drivers. In each speaker, these are situated above woofers, which extend the bass response so you can “feel every impact” when gaming.
(Image credit: Sony)Different platforms, different speaker featuresTempest 3D AudioTech is supported on the PS5 platform, in compatible titles, for positioning audio. Both PS5 and PC have software controls that allow for adjustments of the speaker EQ, sidetone volume, and mic mute settings. It seems like Mac users will miss out on this extra configurability.The speakers are easy to position and detach from their charging docks, upon which they sit on your desk. The PlayStation Link USB-C wireless dongle and associated software are also said to make it easy to switch input sources. That may be welcome if you have multiple systems sharing a desk space, for example.We also note that the Pulse Elevate works with the PlayStation Portal Remote Player, if you are one of the ~2 million people who own one of these handhelds. The design offers “simultaneous Bluetooth and PlayStation Link connectivity.” And thanks to Bluetooth, you will also be able to pair them with your smartphone.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
(Image credit: Sony)Wait until next year for availability and pricingSony says the speakers “will launch in 2026” and be available in black or white colors. The moderately distant launch date seems to have made it too early for a pricing reveal – a very important factor in whether these will be popular. The PC market is particularly price sensitive, as we are spoiled for choice with many great audio products to choose from.Check out our Best PC Speakers 2025 feature, covering budget and audiophile categories, and everything in between, for an overview of the state of the market. Will the Sony Pulse Elevate speakers be able to earn a place in our Best 2.0 Gaming category?Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See more Speakers News
TOPICS
Sony
PlayStation 5
See all comments (4)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
Best Gaming Headsets 2025
Best Wireless Gaming Headsets 2025: Bluetooth, Budget, and More
One of SteelSeries' best gaming headsets is 50% off right now — save big on the quick-swap battery tech I use every day
Back-to-school PC peripherals you didn't know you needed — hot deals on headsets, mice, keyboards, speakers, and more
Best Monitors for PS5, Xbox Series X and Xbox Series S in 2025
Microsoft announces super wideband stereo mode for Bluetooth LE devices
Latest in Speakers
Amazon says bug caused select Echo Show devices to use tons of data
[Updated] Amazon Echo is reportedly an internet vampire that uses gigabytes of data per day despite being unused, says owner
OXS Thunder Pro+ Review: An interesting answer to surround sound
The ultimate 5.1 surround sound SteelSeries Arena 9 gaming speaker system gets a big $130 discount
Onkyo Creator Series GX-10DB, GX-30ARC speakers review: Pretty connectivity
The minimalistic Creative Pebble Pro stereo speakers marked down to just $49
Latest in News
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
SlimeMoldCrypt relies on gloopy living organism’s ever-changing network of tendrils for its dynamic, biological, encryption engine
Sony unveils first-ever wireless desktop speakers for PC gamers with planar magnetic drivers
Intel reportedly raising prices on ever-popular Raptor Lake chips
4 Comments
Comment from the forums
Dr3ams
Maybe for a laptop, but I wouldn't add these things to my rig.
Reply
snemarch
We also note that the Pulse Elevate works with the PlayStation Portal Remote Player, if you own one of the ~2 million people who own one of these handhelds.Is that legal in 2025? ;-)
Reply
dalek1234
2.0 for gaming? 1080's called; they want their speakers back.
So I'm playing an FPS game, for example, and somebody is sneaking up behind my character. With 2.0 speaker set up, I hear that "someone" in-front of me instead of behind me. That's just great. No, thank you. I'll stick to my wired 7.1.
Reply
salgado18
dalek1234 said:2.0 for gaming? 1080's called; they want their speakers back.
So I'm playing an FPS game, for example, and somebody is sneaking up behind my character. With 2.0 speaker set up, I hear that "someone" in-front of me instead of behind me. That's just great. No, thank you. I'll stick to my wired 7.1.I've seen some games emulate back sound quite well on dual speakers/headphones. Obviously "quite well" doesn't nearly mean "perfect", but it's different enough from frontal sounds that it can be distinguished.
Reply
View All 4 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.