iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis, Part Battery King - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Phones
I Tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max. It's Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
Review: Apple's bold redesign begs you to look its way -- especially in orange -- but the best-in-class battery and superb cameras are the real reasons to go Pro.
Article updated on September 17, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Patrick Holland
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr. Expertise Apple | iPhone | iOS | Android | Samsung | Sony | Google | Motorola | Interviews | Coffee equipment | Cats Credentials Patrick's play The Cowboy is included in the Best American Short Plays 2011-12 anthology. He co-wrote and starred in the short film Baden Krunk that won the Best Wisconsin Short Film award at the Milwaukee Short Film Festival.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
9.2/ 10
SCORE iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max
$1,099 at Apple
Pros
The 17 Pro Max's incredible battery life
The brighter screen looks fantastic
Center Stage camera with the ability to take landscape selfies vertically is sweet
Cons
Wished Dual Capture had a 50/50 split
Live Translation's Siri voice can overlap with speakers'
iPhone 17 Pro battery life is on par with the iPhone 16 Pro
Table of Contents
I Tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max. It's Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
Who should buy the iPhone 17 Pro?
The iPhone 17 Pro Max's battery keeps going and going
Patrick's iPhone 17 Pro Max battery diary
iPhone 17 Pro Max design: Orange you glad Apple added colors?
The 17 Pro Max's new camera makes it a selfie machine
iOS 26 is the iPhone 17 Pro Max's soul
iPhone 17 Pro Max final thoughts
iPhone 17's specs vs. iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro, iPhone 17 Pro Max
How we test phones
From the first moment I picked up the new iPhone 17 Pro Max, I was beguiled by its bold, bright redesign. It's a complete turnaround from the years of Apple's subdued titanium motif. The square camera bump of previous Pro models is now a body-wide bar that Apple calls the "camera plateau." The 17 Pro and Pro Max now come in actual colors -- you won't find one in black or space gray. This phone, especially in cosmic orange, wants you to look at it. It's as if the iPhone 17 Pro Max is flexing its new muscular aluminum unibody and begging, "Please notice my camera plateau." Is the iPhone having a midlife crisis? Like a true midlife crisis, you need to look beyond the trendy clothes and whitened teeth to what's going on underneath. And that's where you'll find the iPhone 17 Pro Max's most monumental feature: its battery. Some of those wild outer changes allow more space for a bigger battery on the inside. The result? The iPhone 17 Pro Max has the best battery life of any phone that CNET has ever tested.
The iPhone 17 Pro Max comes in a bright, bold orange color. Abrar Al-Heeti/CNETI've been reviewing the iPhone 17 Pro Max on loan from Apple for the past week, and I was consistently impressed: Even after a full day of heavy use, the battery still had 22% or more left. It also topped both of our battery benchmark tests.Notice I haven't mentioned AI. While competing phone-makers such as Samsung and Google want you to see their phones as containers for AI, LLMs and generative tricks, Apple wants you to notice that it can design one hell of a phone that just happens to have AI woven into it.I can't help but contrast the iPhone 17 Pro models to Apple's newest phone. The iPhone Air is thin, light, quiet and graceful -- with a single rear camera and shorter battery life. The 17 Pro Max is bold, loud, aggressive and powerful, and its daring design appeals to me. But features such as its amazing battery life, brighter screen, new selfie camera and iOS 26 are the real reasons to get it.
Watch this: The iPhone 17 Pro Max Has Incredible Battery Life
12:10
Who should buy the iPhone 17 Pro?You can preorder the iPhone 17 Pro for $1,099 (£1,099, AU$1,999) or the iPhone 17 Pro Max for $1,199; both come with 256GB of storage, and you can pay more for additional storage tiers, including a 2TB option available only to the Pro Max. Preorders are open, and the first phones will begin to arrive Friday, Sept. 19. But should you upgrade?The iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max would be an excellent upgrade for someone coming from an iPhone 14 Pro or older. You get a bigger battery, a better screen, faster charging, newer cameras and a speedier processor that can handle graphics-intensive games and Apple Intelligence.If you have an iPhone 15 Pro or Pro Max, you don't need these new phones unless that battery capacity on your current phone is low -- and even then, it'd be cheaper to simply have your battery swapped out. And unless you have a gracious disposable income, iPhone 16 Pro and Pro Max owners can sit this one out.The iPhone 17 Pro Max's battery keeps going and going
The iPhone 17 Pro Max runs on Apple's new A19 Pro chip which, combined with a vapor cooling chamber, helps keep the phone from getting hot. Celso Bulgatti/CNETDuring my review, the iPhone 17 Pro Max has been my primary phone and its battery life has been wonderful. I started each day with a full charge and always ended with plenty of battery left -- even after shooting photos and videos or keeping the screen at full brightness while filming the review video.Patrick's iPhone 17 Pro Max battery diary
Day6 a.m.12 p.m.5 p.m.10 p.m. Thursday 100%72%48%25%Friday 100%83%56%36%Saturday 100%83%62%26%Sunday 100%78%42%22%Monday 100%85%57%34%
In CNET's 3-hour video streaming test with the screen at max brightness, the 17 Pro Max lost just 9% -- the less percent lost, the better. The iPhone 17 Pro Max ties the Motorola Razr (2024) for the best score we've seen on that test. Compare that to the iPhone 16 Pro Max and regular iPhone 17 Pro, both of which lost more during the test.
Higher percentages are better. The iPhone 17 Pro Max is an absolute unit when it comes to battery life. Tharon Green/CNETIn CNET's 45-minute endurance battery test (where we make a video call, play video games, scroll social media and news feeds with the battery starting at 100%), the iPhone 17 Pro Max lost only 1%, which is incredible. That is the best result we've ever gotten for that test. Are you noticing a theme? The regular 17 Pro lost only 2%.
Higher percentages are better. If you're looking for outstanding battery life, you need to check out the 17 Pro Max. Tharon Green/CNETEven more impressive is that these results were obtained without using the new Adaptive Power feature, which takes about a week before it starts to improve battery life.Apple's new A19 Pro chip helps boost power efficiency, while also making the 17 Pro Max feel fast and responsive. I played a number of games on the 17 Pro Max, including Destiny: Rising, which looked gorgeous on the display. Even after an hour of gameplay, the phone was barely warm.I bring this up because the 17 Pro and Pro Max are the first iPhones with a vapor cooling chamber that channels heat more efficiently. I can definitely say that the 17 Pro Max gets nowhere as hot as the iPhone 16 Pro Max. However, the 17 Pro did get borderline hot when I used a magnetic battery pack to recharge it on a hot day. I was unable to run performance benchmark tests for this review, but will update this story when I have results.iPhone 17 Pro Max design: Orange you glad Apple added colors?
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max in cosmic orange and noticed how close the color was to other orange items, like pumpkins. Patrick Holland/CNETThe Pro and Pro Max have a new aluminum chassis which, despite being heavier than last year's titanium-framed Pro models, feels much better to hold without a case. That's partly thanks to the sturdy unibody design and partly to the curved edges, a hybrid of the iPhone 11's rounded sides and the flat edges we've seen since the iPhone 12. On the back there is a rectangular cutout where Apple is using Ceramic Shield instead of glass. Ceramic Shield consists of nano ceramic crystals embedded in a glass matrix, which Apple says is four times more resistant to cracks than the iPhone 16 Pro's back glass. It also gives the phone a pseudo two-tone look.The new rectangular camera bump -- sorry, plateau -- not only adds to the 17 Pro Max's aggressive styling, it actually houses most of the major components of the phone, allowing more space for the battery.The iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max come in cosmic orange. It's a color that, to quote Brian Setzer, just rocks a bit harder. This bold, bright orange has drawn more "Is that the new iPhone?" questions from passersby during my testing than any other phone I've reviewed. To show you just how orange the iPhone 17 Pro Max is, I snapped a picture of it next to as many orange things as I could find.
How would you describe the 17 Pro Max's orange color? Jesse Orrall/CNET
The cosmic orange iPhone 17 Pro Max is not quite Cheeto-orange. Jesse Orrall/CNET
This anthology of short plays, including one by yours truly, is the closest orange to the iPhone 17 Pro Max's cosmic orange. Patrick Holland/CNET
Depending on the light, the Ceramic Shield cutout can sometimes look lighter than the rest of the 17 Pro Max's body. Celso Bulgatti/CNETThe 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max also come in dark blue and silver.Moving on to the front, the 17 Pro has a 6.3-inch screen and the 17 Pro Max a 6.9-inch display. Both screens can now reach a peak brightness of 3,000 nits outdoors, which in my testing looks great. There's even a coating over the display that helps reduce reflections.
The increased brightness outdoors and the reduced reflections really make these displays feel immersive. Celso Bulgatti/CNETThe display is covered in Ceramic Shield 2, which Apple says has three times better scratch-resistance than the 16 Pro and Pro Max. If that's not enough, you can always put a case and a screen protector on it.The 17 Pro Max's new camera makes it a selfie machine
All three rear cameras have a 48-megapixel sensor. Celso Bulgatti/CNETThe 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max have the exact same rear cameras, all with 48-megapixel sensors. Or you can choose between the trio of lenses (wide-angle, ultrawide and telephoto) to capture photos at 12-megapixel, 24-megapixel or 48-megapixel resolutions.Here are some of my favorite photos from the 17 Pro Max.
Enlarge Image
I snagged this shot of the Golden Gate Bridge with the iPhone 17 Pro Max's telephoto camera at 8x magnification. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
In this image from the 17 Pro Max's main camera, CNET's Jesse Orrall is filming video footage of the new iPhone Air. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
I grabbed this image of the front of a Zoox taxi with the 17 Pro Max's 4x telephoto camera. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
The 17 Pro Max's macro mode caught all the crumbs and textures from this avocado toast. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
The Roxie Theater in San Francisco and its neon sign, as captured at 2x magnification in night mode. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
Just three cool guys. I took this selfie with the new Center Stage camera that allows me to hold the 17 Pro Max vertically and still take a horizontal photo. Patrick Holland/CNETTelephoto cameras are the most challenging for phone-makers to get right because of how little room a phone has to spare for the required lens components. But seeing how much Apple improved the one on the 17 Pro and Pro Max is impressive. The telephoto camera has gone from the 16 Pro's 12-megapixel sensor with a 5x lens to a 48-megapixel sensor that's 56% larger with a new 4x telephoto lens.
Enlarge Image
Both of these images of Dolores Park were taken at 4x magnification. The one on the left is from the iPhone 17 Pro Max and the other is from the iPhone 16 Pro. Patrick Holland/CNETYou read that right: The new Pro has a shorter optical zoom than its predecessor. I thought I'd notice the difference between 4x and 5x, but unless I had the phones side-by-side, I was unaware. The 17 Pro Max's telephoto images are brighter and have better details and resolution than ones from the 16 Pro, which is likely the result of the larger sensor.
Enlarge Image
Here is a photo of the Palace of Fine Arts taken at 1x with the 17 Pro Max's main camera. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
And here is a 4x zoom photo taken from the same spot as above. Patrick Holland/CNETAnd similar to the wizardry Apple uses to make 2x photos look good, the telephoto camera is able to achieve 8x images. Telephoto images at 4x taken under good lighting (like a nice sunny day) can stand toe-to-toe with images from the main camera. But when I took telephoto images in less than ideal lighting, the 4x images held up OK, whereas the 8x images had more noise and softness.
Enlarge Image
On the left is a 4x image from the iPhone 17 Pro Max and on the right, an 8x photo. Patrick Holland/CNETThere's a new selfie camera on both Pro phones that Apple calls Center Stage. It not only takes 18-megapixel selfies, up from 12 megapixels on the 16 Pro, but you can hold the 17 Pro vertically and take a horizontal selfie thanks to a new square image sensor. You can press an onscreen button to change the orientation, and there are even settings that will auto-rotate and auto-zoom out for group shots. Those automatic settings are hit or miss in practice and remind me of the auto-zoom feature on the Galaxy Z Flip 6 that worked but often had a seconds-long lag before zooming.
Enlarge Image
It's just CNET's Abrar Al-Heeti and me taking some casual selfies with the new Center Stage camera. Patrick Holland/CNETThere's also a new mode called Dual-capture, which allows you to record with the front and a back cameras at the same time. The selfie video shows up as a tiny picture-in-picture box, which you can move around the corners of the screen during the recording. The final video has the PIP window (and any movements) burnt into the file.
Enlarge Image
Here is a still from a Dual Capture video I shot on the iPhone 17 Pro Max while enjoying some breakfast. Patrick Holland/CNETIt's a nifty addition and I can see how-to TikTok creators embracing it. I just wish I could switch which camera was in the PIP between the selfie camera and a rear camera. I'd also like to see a 50/50 onscreen option, like the one found on the Galaxy S21 series and newer.iOS 26 is the iPhone 17 Pro Max's soul
The iPhone 17 Pro Max and iOS 26 are like peanut butter and jelly. One of my favorite things is being able to add a background image to group threads in Messages. Patrick Holland/CNETApple's iOS 26 animations have seemingly comic book character abilities. Every time I unlock my phone, the apps delightfully assemble on the home screen like the five lion robots uniting together to become Voltron. The lock screen clock extends around my chosen photo like Mr. Fantastic. The control center pulls down as if I were stretching a piece of taffy.The unified look of the Liquid Glass interface across apps, the Home Screen and lock screen give the iPhone a contemporary, slick and shiny, plastic candy feel. For all the beauty Liquid Glass adds, though, some of the warmth of previous iOS versions is gone.There are small but significant gems buried in iOS 26's design, including the ability to add a background image to group chats in Messages or use the new Hold Assist tool for phone calls.
Visual Intelligence now lets you use a screenshot for a Google Images search or prompt for ChatGPT. Patrick Holland/CNETVisual Intelligence for screenshots is a killer feature. I can easily search or use the image for a prompt in ChatGPT. Being able to scribble over just a portion of an image is handy for narrowing what Google searches for or what ChatGPT sees. Having to take a screenshot of what's on the display feels like an extra step versus just being able to long press a button and circle what you want to search, though.
Live Translation is a nice addition, especially since it works for text messages, phone calls and FaceTime calls. Celso Bulgatti/CNETThere are new Live Translations for messages, phone calls and FaceTime calls. Translations were accurate for Spanish but did have some issues with Portuguese. The couple of times I tried it, the person on the other end would be thrown off by the translation voice, which would sometimes overlap with what I or they were saying.In FaceTime calls, having the translated live captions helped keep the call feeling natural since there wasn't a "third" voice making the translations. Instead, the translation would show up as captions as if I was watching a movie with closed captioning.iPhone 17 Pro Max final thoughts
Look at the shadow cast from the 17 Pro Max's camera plateau. Patrick Holland/CNETOne thing that I appreciate is that Apple gave the iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max personality. Gone is the minimal design for the sake of being simple. Now, we have an old punk rocker who put on a black leather jacket for the first time in years.This redesign will not appeal to everyone. But ultimately, whether you upgrade to the iPhone 17 Pro or Pro Max comes down to many of the similar considerations of prior Pro models. Is your current phone on its last legs? Can you get a great deal on the new Pro iPhones? And will the battery get through a day for you? Even if you don't choose a 17 Pro in the highly visible orange option, getting a phone that solves those problems is punk, too.iPhone 17's specs vs. iPhone Air, iPhone 17 Pro, iPhone 17 Pro Max
Apple iPhone 17Apple iPhone AirApple iPhone 17 ProApple iPhone 17 Pro Max Display size, tech, resolution, refresh rate 6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.5-inch OLED; 2,736 x 1,260 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,622 x 1,206 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh rate6.9-inch OLED; 2,868 x 1,320 pixel resolution; 1-120Hz variable refresh ratePixel density 460ppi460ppi460ppi460ppiDimensions (inches) 5.89 x 2.81 x 0.31 in6.15 x 2.94 x 0.22 in5.91 x 2.83 x 0.34 in6.43 x 3.07 x 0.34 inDimensions (millimeters) 149.6 x 71.5 x 7.95 mm156.2 x 74.7 x 5.64 mm150.0 x 71.9 x 8.75 mm163.4 x 78.0 x 8.75 mmWeight (grams, ounces) 177 g (6.24 oz)165 g (5.82 oz)206 g (7.27 oz)233 g (8.22 oz)Mobile software iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26iOS 26Camera 48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide) 48-megapixel (ultrawide) 48-megapixel (4x, 8x telephoto)Front-facing camera 18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixel18-megapixelVideo capture 4K4K4K4KProcessor Apple A19Apple A19 ProApple A19 ProApple A19 ProRAM + storage RAM N/A + 256GB, 512GBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TBRAM N/A + 256GB, 512GB, 1TB, 2TBExpandable storage NoneNoneNoneNoneBattery Up to 30 hours video playback; up to 27 hours video playback (streamed).Up to 27 hours video playback; up to 22 hours video playback (streamed).
Up to 40 hours video playback, up to 35 hours video playback (streamed) with iPhone Air MagSafe Battery.Up to 33 hours video playback; up to 30 hours video playback (streamed).Up to 39 hours video playback; up to 35 hours video playback (streamed).Fingerprint sensor None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)Connector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoneNoneNoneNoneSpecial features Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, mist blue, sage, lavender. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Apple C1X cellular modem. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: space black, cloud white, light gold, sky blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 20W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.Apple N1 wireless networking chip (Wi-Fi 7 (802.11be) with 2x2 MIMO), Bluetooth 6, Thread. Action button. Camera Control button. Dynamic Island. Apple Intelligence. Visual Intelligence. Dual eSIM. ProRes Raw video recording. Genlock video support. 1 to 3,000 nits brightness display range. IP68 resistance. Colors: silver, cosmic orange, deep blue. Fast charge up to 50% in 20 minutes using 40W adapter or higher via charging cable. Fast charge up to 50% in 30 minutes using 30W adapter or higher via MagSafe Charger.US price starts at $829 (256GB)$999 (256GB)$1,099 (256GB)$1,199 (256GB)
How we test phonesEvery phone CNET's reviews team tests is used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions, from bright sunlight to dark indoor enviornments. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode, and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily, as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether the phone, whatever price it is, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
PATRICK HOLLAND
Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.