Chicken Pasta Casserole Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Chicken Casserole
Hearty Chicken Spaghetti Casserole
Cheesy Chicken Parmigiana
Cheesy Zucchini Casserole
Cheesy Chicken & Broccoli Orzo
Cheesy Corn Casserole
Cheesy Chicken and Rice
Cheesy Lasagna
Cheesy Zucchini Rice Casserole
Chicken Pasta Casserole
Macaroni Chicken Casserole
Cheesy Pasta Casserole
Chicken Macaroni Casserole
Cheesy Chicken Broccoli Casserole
Cheesy Chicken Spaghetti
Hearty Chicken Casserole
Tasty Chicken Noodle Casserole
Hearty Pasta Casserole
Cheesy Chicken Pasta Casserole Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Dishes & BeveragesPasta DishesBaked Pasta
Chicken Pasta Casserole
Cheesy Chicken Pasta Casserole Recipe photo by Taste of Home
4.7 | 135 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 35 min. Bake: 45 min.
By
Lindsay D. Mattison
Recipe by Carmen Vanosch, Vernon, British Columbia
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Jul. 29, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
This is my family’s favorite every week or two and we never tire of it. I like that I can put it together and relax while it bakes. —Carmen Vanosch, Vernon, British Columbia
Baked casseroles like chicken pasta casserole are the unsung heroes of weeknight dinners. The best chicken casserole recipes contain everything you need for a filling meal, all baked together in a single dish. And, if the dish can be made ahead of time, even better. This baked chicken penne casserole accomplishes all that and then some.
In this dish, chicken thighs take on the bold flavor of a homemade tomato sauce made with aromatic vegetables and Italian-inspired seasonings. The saucy chicken meets tender penne pasta and layers of mozzarella and Romano cheese for a hearty dish that’s full of flavor and color.
Ingredients for Chicken Pasta Casserole
Penne pasta: The tomato sauce slings to the ridges of penne pasta, ensuring you get saucy goodness in every bite.
Chicken thighs: Dark meat holds up better in baked dishes than chicken breasts, but you can substitute in boneless skinless chicken breasts if you prefer white meat.
Vegetables: Onion, green pepper and sweet red pepper add color and texture to this baked chicken penne dish. Fresh vegetables are best, but you can swap in a frozen pepper-and-onion blend if you need to cut down on prep time.
Seasonings: The combination of basil, oregano, parsley flakes, crushed red pepper flakes and garlic adds an Italian-inspired flavor profile to this casserole.
Tomato sauce: A tomato sauce comes together with undrained diced tomatoes, tomato paste and chicken broth. It’s easy to make and tastes better than jarred pasta sauce.
Cheese: Layers of mozzarella cheese and Romano cheese add a melty, ooey-gooey element to baked casseroles. If you don’t have Romano cheese, you can use Parmesan instead.
Directions
Step 1: Cook the pasta
Preheat oven to 350°F. Cook the pasta according to package directions.
Editor’s Tip: When the pasta finishes cooking, drain the noodles but do not rinse them. Rinsing removes the starchy outer coating that helps the sauce cling to the pasta. If needed, you can toss the cooked noodles with a bit of olive oil or butter to keep them from sticking together.
Step 2: Brown the chicken
While the pasta is cooking, heat the oil in a large saucepan over medium heat. Add the chicken, onion, green pepper, red pepper, basil, oregano, parsley flakes, salt and crushed red pepper flakes. Saute until the chicken is no longer pink. Add the garlic, and cook for one minute longer.
Step 3: Blend the tomatoes
In a blender, pulse the diced tomatoes and tomato paste, covered, until blended.
Editor’s Tip: Blending the diced tomatoes makes the sauce smooth, but you can skip this step if you prefer a chunky tomato sauce.
Step 4: Simmer the chicken and sauce
Add the blended tomatoes to the chicken mixture. Stir in the broth, and bring the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat. Cover and simmer until the sauce is slightly thickened, 10 to 15 minutes.
Step 5: Layer the casserole
Drain the pasta, and toss it with the chicken mixture. Spoon half of the mixture into a greased 2-quart baking dish. Sprinkle with half of the mozzarella and Romano cheeses. Repeat the layers.
Step 6: Bake the chicken pasta casserole
Taste of Home
Cover the baking dish, and bake for 30 minutes. Uncover, and bake until heated through, 15 to 20 minutes longer. If desired, garnish the casserole with parsley.
Recipe Variations
Change the pasta: Feel free to substitute another pasta shape, like spiral pasta, rigatoni or elbow macaroni.
Swap in provolone: To give the cheesy layer a sharper, more complex flavor, use shredded provolone instead of mozzarella.
Use a different protein: This baked chicken penne dish is pretty versatile, and it would taste great with ground beef or sausage.
Add vegetables: Mix in vegetables like spinach, broccoli, mushrooms, eggplant or zucchini. You can even make the casserole with all vegetables for a vegetarian pasta casserole.
Can you make chicken pasta casserole ahead of time?
To prepare this casserole ahead of time, assemble the dish but do not bake it. Cover the baking dish, and store it in the refrigerator overnight. The next day, remove the dish from the refrigerator 30 minutes before baking. Bake as directed, adjusting the cooking time as needed for the casserole to heat through.
You can also freeze unbaked chicken pasta casserole. Freeze the covered casserole for up to three months. To use the frozen casserole, let it thaw in the refrigerator overnight. Remove the dish from the refrigerator 30 minutes before baking. Then bake, covered, in a 350° oven for 50 to 60 minutes.
How to Store Chicken Pasta Casserole
Store the leftovers in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to four days. Reheat the casserole in the microwave or a 350° oven until warmed through.
Chicken Pasta Casserole Tips
Taste of Home
Can you make chicken pasta casserole with rotisserie chicken?
If you have leftover or rotisserie chicken on hand, feel free to use it in this chicken pasta casserole recipe. You can replace 1 pound raw chicken with 2-1/2 to 3 cups cooked chicken. Add the cooked chicken to the sauce when you add the drained pasta.
Should you cook pasta before baking chicken penne baked pasta?
It’s best to cook the pasta before you bake this casserole. This recipe doesn’t contain enough liquid to cook the noodles while the casserole bakes, so the pasta would taste raw and hard. It’s also important not to overcook the pasta before adding it to the casserole, or it will have a mushy texture. Cook the pasta according to the package directions for al dente.
Can you add raw chicken to a baked chicken penne casserole?
We recommend cooking chicken before adding it to baked casseroles. Raw or undercooked chicken can contain harmful bacteria, so browning the chicken beforehand ensures the chicken’s internal temperature will reach 165°. Plus, cooking the chicken and vegetables with the sauce helps to develop layers of flavor that add to this casserole’s incredible taste.
Watch How to Make Cheesy Chicken Pasta Casserole
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Cheesy Chicken Pasta Casserole
Contest Winner
4.7 | 135 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:4 servings
Prep:35 min
Cook:45 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1-1/2 cups uncooked penne pasta
1 tablespoon canola oil
1 pound boneless skinless chicken thighs, cut into 1-inch pieces
1/2 cup chopped onion
1/2 cup chopped green pepper
1/2 cup chopped sweet red pepper
1 teaspoon dried basil
1 teaspoon dried oregano
1 teaspoon dried parsley flakes
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon crushed red pepper flakes
3 garlic cloves, minced
1 can (14-1/2 ounces) diced tomatoes, undrained
3 tablespoons tomato paste
3/4 cup chicken broth
2 cups shredded part-skim mozzarella cheese
1/2 cup grated Romano cheese
Minced fresh parsley, optional
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat oven to 350°. Cook pasta according to package directions. Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, heat oil over medium heat. Add the chicken, onion, peppers and seasonings; saute until chicken is no longer pink. Add garlic; cook 1 minute longer.
In a blender, pulse diced tomatoes and tomato paste, covered, until blended. Add to chicken mixture. Stir in broth; bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce heat; cover and simmer until slightly thickened, 10-15 minutes.
Drain pasta; toss with chicken mixture. Spoon half the mixture into a greased 2-qt. baking dish. Sprinkle with half the cheeses. Repeat layers.
Cover and bake 30 minutes. Uncover; bake until heated through, 15-20 minutes longer. If desired, garnish with parsley.
Nutrition Facts
1-1/2 cups: 579 calories, 28g fat (12g saturated fat), 128mg cholesterol, 1357mg sodium, 36g carbohydrate (9g sugars, 4g fiber), 47g protein.
Author
Lindsay D. Mattison
Lindsay has been a food writer, recipe developer and product tester for seven years. She’s a culinary school graduate who specializes in sustainable food and seasonal ingredients. She draws on her professional chef background to develop recipes and help home cooks gain confidence in the kitchen. When Lindsay isn’t writing, you’ll find her coo...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This is my family’s favorite every week or two and we never tire of it. I like that I can put it together and relax while it bakes. —Carmen Vanosch, Vernon, British Columbia
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box