Best early Amazon Prime Day EcoFlow deals 2025: My 7 favorites sales ahead of October | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Energy
Power banks and batteries
Best early Amazon Prime Day EcoFlow deals 2025: I'm tracking my favorite power station discounts
Prime Day is still a couple of weeks away, but here are some of the best early deals I've found on top-quality portable power stations from EcoFlow.
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 7:18 a.m. PT
EcoFlow River 2 Pro | for $359 (save $170)
EcoFlow River 2 Pro
for $359 (save $170)
View now View at Amazon EcoFlow Delta 3 Plus | for $699 (save $200)
EcoFlow Delta 3 Plus
for $699 (save $200)
View now View at Amazon EcoFlow River 2 Max | for $283 (save $166)
EcoFlow River 2 Max
for $283 (save $166)
View now View at Amazon EcoFlow Delta Pro | for $1,399 (save $1,400)
EcoFlow Delta Pro
for $1,399 (save $1,400)
View now View at Amazon
Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale, otherwise known as October Prime Day, is coming up soon -- less than two weeks to go. This year, it runs October 7-8, and you can once again expect to find some great deals on everything from smartphones and laptops to home goods. There will be some welcomed deals on power stations, too. And if you look closely, these deals are already deals trickling in. One company that's offering some good deals ahead of Prime Day is EcoFlow.  Also: The best portable power stations to last through power outagesI don't just test power stations -- I've already tested several dozen this year, small and large -- I use them myself. A lot. At home for harvesting solar power to save a few bucks and to sail through the occasional power outage, and when I'm out and about off-grid. I always have one in the car or truck. They're a core part of my kit. These are my favorite EcoFlow deals so far.Find Prime Day deals Best early Prime Day EcoFlow power station deals
EcoFlow River 2 Pro for $359 (save $170)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Current price: $359 (32% off)Original price: $529I love this power station! The River 2 Pro has 768Wh of power stored in a bank of long-life LiFePO4 cells with a 3,000 recharge cycle lifespan (good for a decade of heavy use) that can be fast-charged in 70 minutes. The power capacity is enough to run a small kitchen appliance for an hour, a 50W electric blanket for 12 hours, or charging my smartphone several dozen times over.  Review: I test power stations for a living, but this is the one in the back of my car right now
Show more
View now at Amazon
EcoFlow Delta 3 Plus for $699 (save $200)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Current price: $699 (22% off)Original price: $899This is a big upgrade on its predecessor. It's built tough, has improved cooling so it can be pushed harder yet runs super quiet. Also, when it comes to outdoor use, I was pleased to find out that the Delta 3 Plus features a 1,024Wh battery pack that's IP65 rated for dust and water-resistance. This increases the life of the unit and dramatically decreases the risk of fires and short circuits. Review: I found a compact power station with solar charging, and it's a new off-grid essential
Show more
View now at Amazon
EcoFlow River 2 Max for $283 (save $166)
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET
Current price: $283 (37% off)Original price: $449This is one of those Goldilocks power stations -- not too big, but also not too small. It builds on the River 2, taking things to the next level. Its capacity is doubled to 512Wh, its weight is bumped up to 13.4 pounds, and it is capable of a sustained AC output of 500W (1,000W max). While 13.4 pounds is hefty, it's 22% lighter than previous-generation EcoFlow units of comparable specs.Review: I found a great portable power station for off-grid adventures
Show more
View now at Amazon
EcoFlow Delta Pro for $1,399 (save $1,400)
EcoFlow
Current price: $1,399 (50% off)Original price: $2,700This is a big unit, capable of easily powering a home for a day, and now available at a massively discounted price. This is a perfect power station for those wanting to put together a home system as this will hook up to both your solar panels and the grid, giving you flexibility on how to charge the system.
Show more
View now at Amazon
More early October Prime Day EcoFlow power station deals EcoFlow Delta Pro 3 with 400W Portable Solar Panel: $2,999 (save $1,899): Everything you need to start harvesting solar energy and freeing yourself from the power company!EcoFlow Delta 2: $429 (save $270): The perfect low-cost unit for the home, workshop, or RV.EcoFlow Delta Pro with Extra Battery: $1,399 (save $600): This is a "go big, or go home" setup, with enough power output and capacity to run 99.99% of heavy-duty devices at home, outdoors, or at work.FAQs
When is October Prime Day 2025?  Amazon's Prime Big Deal Days sale, otherwise known as October Prime Day, runs Oct. 7 and 8, back to the usual two-day sale extravaganza, and not the four days that we saw back in July.
Are power stations really cheaper on Prime Day?  I watch prices closely, and yes, I can say with absolute certainty that you can find lots of great deals during the Amazon Prime Day sales. In fact, I've found some absolute killer deals to share with you. It's also a good time to get a good deal on combos that come with the power station and an expansion battery and/or solar panels.
How did we choose these October Prime Day deals? Here at ZDNET, I only write about deals that interest me -- the devices and gear I desire, need, or would recommend. I look for the best possible deal and seek out those things that are only occasionally on sale. I use established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops.  I also pay attention to customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals I'm recommending. I'm one person testing one thing, so it's useful to get a broader sampling. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter.
Show more
What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget dealsOur top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Don't buy a Bluetti before you see the $400 extras you can get for free
My new favorite portable power station has an ingenious storage feature that's spoiled me
Unplugging these 7 household devices saved me $200 a year in electricity
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use