Top 20 Best PS5 Games - July 2025 | CNET - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechGaming PlayStation
The 20 Best PS5 Games Right Now
CNET gaming experts have listed the top 20 PlayStation 5 games you can play right now, like Astro Bot, God of War: Ragnarok and Helldivers 2.
David Lumb Senior Reporter David Lumb is a senior reporter covering mobile and gaming spaces. Over the last decade, he's reviewed phones for TechRadar as well as covered tech, gaming, and culture for Engadget, Popular Mechanics, NBC Asian America, Increment, Fast Company and others. As a true Californian, he lives for coffee, beaches and burritos. Expertise Smartphones | Gaming | Telecom industry | Mobile semiconductors | Mobile gaming
See full bio
Tyler Graham Writer Tyler is a writer under CNET's home energy and utilities category. He came to CNET straight out of college, where he graduated from Seton Hall with a bachelor's degree in journalism. For the past seven months, Tyler has attended a White House press conference, participated in energy product testing at CNET's testing labs in Louisville, Kentucky, and written one of CNET Energy's top-performing news articles, on federal solar policy. Not bad for a newbie.
When Tyler's not asking questions or doing research for his next assignment, you can find him in his home state of New Jersey, kicking back with a bagel and watching an action flick or playing a new video game.
You can reach him at tgraham@cnet.com. Expertise Community solar, state solar policy, solar cost and accessibility, renewable energy, electric vehicles, video games, home internet for gaming.
See full bio
Adam Benjamin Managing Editor Adam Benjamin has helped people navigate complex problems for the past decade. The former digital services editor for Reviews.com, Adam now leads CNET's services and software team and contributes to its game coverage. Expertise Operating Systems | Streaming Services | Mobile Apps | First-Person Shooters Credentials Adam has been covering streaming services since 2013 and wants to help people navigate the subscription creep in their lives.
See full bio
David Lumb
Tyler Graham
,
Adam Benjamin
July 23, 2025
11:53 a.m. PT 20 min read
Sony
Over four years after its release, Sony's PlayStation 5 has bested Microsoft's Xbox to dominate this console generation. If you want a plug-and-play experience with the latest games, PS5 is a fantastic choice.The PS5 introduced several tech advancements over its predecessor, from the extra functionality you get from the DualSense controller's advanced haptics and triggers to instant load times with its solid-state storage, as well as the PSVR 2 headset. But the PS5's biggest appeal, building on all the best PS4 games it's backward-compatible with, is its lengthy catalog of exclusive and cross-platform games spanning multiple genres. Sony has leveraged its intellectual property to create everything from the gritty narratives of God of War: Ragnarok and The Last of Us Part II to the colorful, nostalgic platforming of Astro Bot -- there's something for everyone on the PS5.We've curated this list of the best Sony PlayStation 5 games you can buy right now, including some stellar titles that showed up on CNET's 2024 Game of the Year list.Best PS5 Games - July 2025
Sony
Astro Bot
Astro Bot is one of the best PlayStation games in years like concentrated joy coming back from a simpler time in gaming's past. It's a whimsical tour de force of unfettered creativity, essentially Sony's equivalent of iconic Nintendo 3D platformers like Super Mario 64 or Galaxy. Astro Bot is a love letter to every Sony game, with references and cameos to PlayStation games and hardware stretching back to before some gamers (including this writer) were born.Astro Bot isn't just a nostalgic cash grab dropping dozens of member berries and phoning it in. It's a game where every level is a mechanical and visual triumph, with power-ups that allow players to float like a balloon, bullet dash, spring punch, climb like a monkey, blast like a rocket, stop time and shrink down to the size of a mouse, each one changing how you engage with the collectible bots and puzzle pieces.This game also makes full use of the DualSense controllers -- different levels take advantage of the gyro capabilities and even have you blowing into the controller to spin pinwheels to create gusts of wind. When you succeed in your task and make it to the end of the level? You best believe you're going to be serenaded with hundreds of acorns, gold coins, snowballs or whatever bauble fits the level's theme, just because the game wants to remind you that it can handle dropping all those beautiful physics objects in front of you at once.Astro Bot is a unique and laudable PlayStation experience, made possible only through a combination of Sony's cultural currency and the PlayStation 5's hardware. It's a must-have game for the console.Release date: Sept. 6, 2024Genre: 3D platformerDeveloper: Team Asobi- Tyler Graham, writer
$48 at Amazon
$60 at Target
Hazelight Studios
Split Fiction
A fun, lighthearted two-player-only adventure.
Split Fiction is the latest two-players-only game coming from Hazelight Studios, which has built a reputation of similarly novel couch or online co-op titles, like the award-winning It Takes Two. The new game is a cavalcade of fun action and puzzle sequences that don't overstay their welcome, switching up mechanics and set pieces to keep the game flowing.Players control either Mio or Zoe, two fiction writers lured to an evil corporation attempting to steal all their ideas, which they must play through to escape. The game alternates between these, throwing players from a cyberpunk science fiction story to a cozy fantasy and back again every hour or so, with enough whimsical side stories to break up the flow and ensure there's always something new around the corner. With a light story in the background, and as Mio and Zoe go from strangers to friends in a tightly-tuned cooperative gameplay, Split Fiction is a great pick for pals or partners looking for a polished game they can play together -- so long as the occasionally difficult bits don't wear you down.Read our Split Fiction review.Release date: March 6, 2025Genre: Co-op action platformerDeveloper: Hazelight Studios-- David Lumb, Senior Mobile Reporter
$40 at Amazon
$50 at Best Buy
$40 at Target
Capcom
Monster Hunter Wilds
Hunt big monsters yourself or with friends across deserts, forests and more.
Capcom's celebrated Monster Hunter series blew into the mainstream with 2018's Monster Hunter: World, and the newest version brings a great mix of old and new. Monster Hunter Wilds starts out feeling like an expansion to its predecessor, but it's quickly apparent how much the game has been improved for the PS5: open world between camps and hunting areas, instant load times, herd behaviors, monster-on-monster clashes and the sharpest graphics yet.The story starts with the titular Monster Hunter, the player, accompanying a hunter's guild expedition to a far-off land thought uninhabitable to people -- but with a former native in tow, looking to connect with the tribes who live there. Of course, they'll need to fight their way through plenty of monsters and other beasts to do so, bringing the game's 14 weapons to bear -- all of which get new movesets and mechanics in the game. A big game with plenty of brawls with new and unique beasts, Monster Hunter Wilds is the best of the series.Read our starter guide 7 Tips When Starting Monster Hunter Wilds.Release date: February 28, 2025Genre: Boss battle fantasy actionDeveloper: Capcom-- David Lumb
$77 at Amazon
$56 at Walmart
$75 at Best Buy
Sony
God of War: Ragnarök
Santa Monica Studios' God of War: Ragnarök, released in November 2022, continues the titular god Kratos' epic dad adventure through lands inspired by Norse mythology -- and clashing with the Nordic gods themselves -- while raising his son Atreus. The sequel to the 2018 God of War, which served as a soft reboot of the classic series, has been lauded for its voice acting, lush graphics and tight combat, but it's the narrative that sets the game apart from other AAA action games.Ragnarök picks up where God of War left off as Kratos' killing of the Aesir god Baldur triggers the leadup to the mythical realms-wide, age-ending titular battle. With more weapons, enemies, bosses and gameplay featuring slices playing as Atreus, Ragnarök improves on everything from the first game. There's even a free DLC, Valhalla, serving as a narrative epilogue to the Norse chapter in the war god's story. For a cinematic adventure of epic scale, God of War: Ragnarök is hard to top.Read our God of War: Ragnarök review.Release date: Nov. 9, 2022Genre: Narrative-driven hack and slash adventureDeveloper: Santa Monica Studio- David Lumb
$43 at Amazon
Guerrilla Games
Horizon Forbidden West
Another great sequel of a fan-favorite game, Horizon Forbidden West is Guerrilla Games' sequel to the 2017 smash hit Horizon Zero Dawn. Forbidden West, which came out in February 2022, follows Aloy's quest to find a cure for a plague in a post-post-apocalyptic world, where sentient beast-like machines roam the land while tribes of surviving humans unravel the mysteries of fallen civilizations.As an open-world game, Forbidden West builds on its predecessor with more areas to explore, underwater sections to investigate, weapons to find and skills to master. Guerrilla Games expanded production of the sequel with more emphasis on story cinematics, with a star-studded cast led by Ashly Burch and the dearly missed Lance Reddick, as well as the talents of Angela Bassett and Carrie-Anne Moss in new roles. The sprawling game is further expanded in the DLC, Burning Shores, that explores even more of what happened in the past -- and the course of the world's future. For a big adventure promising dozens of hours of gameplay in an open world, Horizon Forbidden West is a great choice.Read our Horizon Forbidden West review.Release date: Feb. 18, 2022Genre: Post-post-apocalyptic open world action-adventureDeveloper: Guerrilla Games- David Lumb
$57 at Best Buy
$54 at Target
$54 at Amazon
Housemarque/Screenshot by CNET
Returnal
Returnal is one of the most narratively rewarding roguelike adventures on the market. Like Hades, the story only truly progresses when you've struggled your way across the finish line multiple times.Unlike Hades, Returnal is a buttery smooth third-person shooter and a nightmarish bullet hell. Astronaut Selene Vallos crash lands on Atropos, an alien planet full of hostile xenobiology, and she doesn't start out with the combat experience to navigate the challenges laid at her feet. A time loop brings Selene back to the beginning of her journey any time the planet's inhabitants tear her asunder, which marks a brilliant convergence of gameplay and narrative: Selene is learning how to fight right alongside the player in a sort of Edge of Tomorrow-like scenario.While combat might feel futile at first, repetition makes it easier to dodge the geometric fields of plasma and fireballs that enemies will be fielding at you. Players can unlock high-tech weaponry during each run, ranging from standard sci-fi carbines to pylon launchers that chain electricity between fired projectiles. Later in the game, Selene unlocks a grappling hook that lets her zip around arenas -- these upgrades will eventually lead you to feel like a hunter rather than the prey.You no longer have to take on the Herculean task of making it off-world alone. Returnal's Ascension update added two player co-op, so you can battle through the ever-shifting time loop with a friend. This update also added the Tower of Sisyphus, a challenging endless mode designed with the most skilled Returnal players in mind.Release Date: April 30, 2021Genre: Sci-fi roguelike third-person shooter and bullet hellDeveloper: Housemarque- Tyler Graham
$45 at Amazon
Naughty Dog
The Last of Us 2: Remastered
The Last of Us 2, the long-awaited sequel to the post-apocalyptic zombie game from Naughty Dog, first came out in 2020 on last-gen consoles to enormous critical and cultural acclaim (if eerie timing during a pandemic). Only a few years later, the studio released a remastered version for PS5 in January 2024. The graphical gains aren't significant, but having a definitive edition for current-gen consoles is helpful for players to pick up and experience, and there are several extras like No Return (a roguelike zombie survival mode) and the unfinished Lost Levels not found in the original game.Where the original The Last of Us was a story about grief and the (very bloody) lengths taken to start anew after the apocalypse, The Last of Us 2 is a story of consequence and the (very bloody) lengths taken for revenge. As you'd expect of developer Naughty Dog, this is a beautiful, laboriously crafted story unlike pretty much anything else in gaming, and The Last of Us 2 Remastered is the best way to play it. Worth a place on anyone's shelf, but don't expect to come out of it unscathed.Read our The Last of Us 2 review.Release date: Jan. 19, 2024Genre: Narrative-driven post-apocalyptic third-person shooterDeveloper: Naughty Dog- David Lumb
$45 at Amazon
Screenshot by Gael Fashingbauer Cooper/CNET
Fortnite
A couple of years ago, I would have described the free-to-play shooter Fortnite as the premier battle royale game, but that's no longer a sufficient description. Fortnite is like the final boss of live-service games because it isn't simply a game anymore: It's a platform for what feels like seemingly endless games.Hey, maybe you enjoy the fast-paced, zany battle royale experience that normal Fortnite offers you, but you don't like building? Fortnite: Zero Build remedies that, allowing me to drop into a more traditional battle royale experience. There are even more "out there" game modes. Are you a fan of Guitar Hero? Fortnite Festival wants to help you get your rhythm fix, allowing players to jam out to a constantly updating library of music. Do you enjoy building, but you're not so big on battle royales? Lego Fortnite offers an entire blocky open world to gallivant across.Even if you prefer classic battle royale, there are always new events to shake it up: One day a sandstorm is reshaping the entire island, and the next Marvel's Dr. Doom is building his empire within the playable arena. New player skins of fictional characters and real celebrities are added all the time. This is a game that both shapes and is shaped by popular culture, and you get to be in the middle of it all.Release date: July 21, 2017Genre: Battle royale, rhythm, survival builder and moreDeveloper: Epic Games- Tyler Graham
See at Store.playstation
Sucker Punch Productions
Ghost of Tsushima
Games make the most of a revenge narrative, which is why it's so enthralling to step into Jin Sakai's shoes as he becomes "the Ghost" of Tsushima, enacting his vengeance with sword in shadow.The game, which was rereleased in a Director's Cut version for PS5 in August 2021, tells a story about a hero -- and a legend -- that emerged during the first Mongol invasion of Japan. You're forced to walk in two worlds as you alternate between stealthy takedowns and intense sword fights, including epic samurai duels.All that violence occurs in a beautiful game: There are peaceful, reflective moments too, ones where you'll recite haikus in the hot springs or ride your horse through fields surrounded by beautiful white plum blossom trees. It's no surprise the game has a built-in photo mode and the option to turn off the HUD altogether.No matter how you slice it, the conflict between the enemy-stalking Ghost and honorable Jin Sakai is an example of Sony's commitment to premium storytelling, and Ghost of Tsushima is one of the most cinematic games under the PlayStation banner.Read our Ghost of Tsushima review.Release date: July 17, 2020Genre: Stealthy open world action-adventureDeveloper: Sucker Punch Productions- Tyler Graham
See at Playstation
Square Enix
Final Fantasy VII: Rebirth
Among my group of friends, I'm the notorious side-quest hater. I almost never do them because they feel like tedious busy work that slows down the game for minimal reward. Let me tell you, when I got to the first open area of Final Fantasy VII Rebirth when it was released in February 2024, I finished every single quest in that area. The game just felt immediately inviting.
Rebirth takes everything about the first remake installment and expands it -- more characters, more quests, more freedom, more minigames (hello, Queen's Blood obsession). There's a freedom and fluidity in the game that I never quite felt with the previous installment, Final Fantasy VII Remake nor the Intergrade DLC, including upgrades to combat such as synergy skills and abilities, which make the fights feel even more dynamic by allowing you greater creativity. I expected to enjoy the next chapter in the Final Fantasy VII remake trilogy, but even I wasn't prepared for a game that felt so thorough, fun and welcoming.Read our Final Fantasy VII: Rebirth review.Release date: Feb. 29, 2024Genre: Tactical JRPG action-adventureDeveloper: Square Enix- Adam Benjamin, managing editor
$34 at Amazon
$50 at Best Buy
$50 at Target
Bend Studio/Screenshot by CNET
Days Gone Remastered
If your idea of a good time is riding motorcycles and toting around a big old boomstick while a horde of zombies bears down on you, then Days Gone Remastered is for you.Bend Studio's take on the post-apocalypse isn't exactly revolutionary, but fighting the game's "freakers" in the sparsely populated Oregonian backwoods can make you feel like a regular Daryl Dixon. That's partially by design -- main character Deacon St. John is an outlaw with a heart of gold, drifting from place to place.When Deacon finds out his wife may have actually survived the initial fall of civilization, he starts uncovering a conspiracy that brings him into conflict with the living as well as the dead. With scavenged bike and weapon parts and righteous determination, Deacon begins cleaning up the freakers and the government agents standing between him and the truth -- and making the world safer for nearby communities.Days Gone Remastered adds several new features, including photo capture tools, a speedrunning mode and a permadeath difficulty option. It also adds Horde Assault, transforming the most memorable feature from the core game -- massive packs of roaming freakers -- into a tsunami of the undead that players will have to survive.Release Date: April 25, 2025Genre: Open world zombie survival in backwoods OregonDeveloper: Bend Studio- Tyler Graham
See at PlayStation
Larian Studios
Baldur's Gate 3
I love Baldur's Gate 3 so much, I have multiple save files because I keep dragging friends into it. It was an easy sell for me, a D&D player who grew up with BioWare RPGs, but I'm still impressed by how much Larian Studios managed to do with this game -- it's stunning in its visuals, storytelling and customization. On the PS5 version, which came out in September 2023, it's easy to start a game with a friend or three, letting you explore the realm together, while still allowing each person a degree of freedom in how they want to do that.
Play as one of the Origin characters or create your own custom character, whether that's a tough dragonborn monk or a cotton-candy-haired elf sorcerer. Make choices that affect the story, roll for outcomes, use inspiration to reroll bad outcomes and eventually load a previous save when you continue to roll poorly. In all seriousness, part of the fun of the game is discovering what mechanics you enjoy -- whether that's speaking, sneaking or summoning -- and building out your character to be progressively better at those things as the game goes on. You can save villages, loot dungeons and face off against champions of the gods... or you can destroy villages, plunder cities and threaten people into worshipping you. Baldur's Gate 3 is one of the best games, full stop, and it's essential for any PS5 collection.Read our Baldur's Gate 3 review.Release date: Aug. 3, 2023Genre: Dungeons & Dragons isometric RPGDeveloper: Larian Studios- Adam Benjamin
See at Sony
Insomniac
Spider-Man 2
Insomniac's first go at Marvel's iconic webhead in 2018 was a solid outing, with an enthralling story pulled together by Peter Parker's personal ties to villains Mr. Negative and Otto Octavius, who challenge both the hero and the human. Spider-Man 2, which came out in October 2023, featured iconic foe Kraven the Hunter who raised the stakes and proved truly dangerous as he hunted down other characters from the Spider-Man mythos, but the story takes a backseat to the gameplay this time around.Most of the new fun comes from the combat. Everyone knows Spider-Man pulls his punches; with great power comes great responsibility, after all. That's why it's a real treat to unlock more heavy-hitting moves as the Venom symbiote corrupts Peter over the course of the game. Combining familiar fighting moves with tendril attacks and a "rage mode" was a natural iteration that makes tangling with enemies more engaging. There are even tag team battles where Miles Morales or Peter Parker (depending on which Spider-Man you're currently playing) will randomly swing in to help lock down a fight.This might be the same New York City as the setting of the first game, but this time around it truly feels alive. There are new collectables to find, new crimes to stamp out and new ways to beat down the bad guys. When I'm swinging around as the most prolific superhero of all time, that's all I can possibly ask for.Release date: Oct. 20, 2023Genre: Open world action-adventureDeveloper: Insomniac Games- Tyler Graham
$52 at Amazon
$70 at Target
Bluepoint Games
Demon's Souls
While there's seemingly always been a cultish fervor surrounding FromSoftware's Souls series, Elden Ring truly went mainstream, making these ARPGs more approachable to a wider audience. Now, many gamers have started to turn toward FromSoftware's previous titles to get their next hit of dark fantasy. Certain recommendations I'd love to make (looking at you, Bloodborne) are trapped on older consoles. PS5 owners are lucky enough to have a chance to play Bluepoint Games' remake of the first ever Souls game that started the so-called Soulsborne game type: Demon's Souls.It was one of the launch titles for the PS5 when it was released in November 2020, but Demon's Souls remains visually stunning: This version of the game imbues iconic fights with new life, such as the desperate slugfest to take down the massive, gleaming Tower Knight. Fights don't move as quickly as they do in FromSoftware's more contemporary games, but it feels more rewarding to find and exploit a boss' true weakness. It's also worth playing the remake to experience old mechanics that never made a return -- such as world tendency, a karmic system creating a more dynamic world that reveals different items and NPCs.If Elden Ring sunk its hooks into you, and you wouldn't mind playing a slower, more tactical-feeling Souls game, the Demon's Souls remake is a must-play on the PS5.Release date: Nov. 12, 2020Genre: Brutally difficult ARPGDeveloper: Bluepoint Games- Tyler Graham
$39 at Amazon
$25 at Walmart
$70 at Best Buy
Screenshot by CNET
Helldivers 2
Now this is a game that goes down like a warm cup of liber-tea. Helldivers 2, released in February 2024, somehow fluctuates between being one of the greatest power fantasies I've ever played and making me feel like absolutely hopeless cannon fodder. One second I'll feel like an invincible super soldier (Master Chief has nothing on me) and the next I'm a puddle of viscera being chowed down on by some really big bugs.Yet Helldivers 2 always feels like a wholly cohesive experience, because as soon as I drop back into the thick of the fight in another hellpod, I'm riding the high of tearing through dozens of knockoff Terminators or killer space bugs all over again. It feels even better to drop into battle with a squad of friends, working in lockstep to secure objectives by calling down tactical airstrikes, heavy weapons, minefields and more -- until everyone gets blown up at the same time because your friend drops a 500-kilogram bomb at your feet.This game has the highest highs, but it also makes the lows feel like highs too. I'm either mowing down hundreds of Super Earth's enemies in glorious combat or getting turned into mincemeat by slapstick accidents with high-powered munitions. Either way, I'm always having a blast.Release date: Feb. 8, 2024Genre: Objective-based third-person horde shooterDeveloper: Arrowhead Game Studios- Tyler Graham
$36 at Amazon
$36 at Target
Sony/Polyphony Digital
Gran Turismo 7
After a long absence for the racing series, Gran Turismo 7 burst on the scene in March 2022 with the franchise's signature mix of realism and style. The first Gran Turismo on PS5 takes advantage of the console's high performance for quick loading via solid state drive, gorgeous graphics with ray tracing and haptic feedback in the DualSense controller.GT 7 leans into time and weather's effects on track conditions, rewarding players who tweak their car performance to account for rain, wind and other effects. The game features several racing modes, Championships and tracks returning from former games. For PS5 owners itching to get behind the wheel, Gran Turismo 7 is a great pick.Read our Gran Turismo 7 review.Release date: March 4, 2022Genre: Realistic racing game with arcade elementsDeveloper: Polyphony Digital- David Lumb
$52 at Amazon
Kojima Productions/Screenshot by CNET
Death Stranding Director's Cut
Gaming auteur Hideo Kojima's premier strand-type game (which focuses on social cooperation over combat to solve problems) is an odd duck. In theory, a game that has you trekking through the wilderness for hours with a comically large stack of deliverables has the same appeal as American Truck Simulator.In practice, however, navigating Death Stranding's world is a puzzle of finding proper footholds on uneven terrain while avoiding natural disasters. Supernatural monsters known as BTs patrol the world, calling down dangerous timefall rain -- and human bandits also pose a significant threat to the player character. The only way to make it to your destinations unscathed is to rely on the kindness of other players, as they leave behind advantages you can utilize through asynchronous online multiplayer -- gifts that bind strangers in the wilderness, which might be the only tethers to civilization in the game's setting of a near-future broken-down America.As you continue delivering packages, the world evolves around you. Isolated communities grow increasingly connected through the expansion of the wireless Chiral Network -- mimicking how players bridge the gaps for each other on their own Death Stranding adventures. The Director's Cut edition adds even more narrative events into the game, as players can undertake new missions as they traverse the open world.If you can't get enough of Death Stranding's harsh post-post-apocalyptic environmental vibes, you'll be happy to hear that Death Stranding 2: On the Beach is releasing on June 26.Release Date: Nov. 8, 2019Genre: Open world delivery game with asynchronous social multiplayer elementsDeveloper: Kojima Productions- Tyler Graham
$50 at Amazon
Bandai Namco
Elden Ring: Shadow of the Erdtree
Elden Ring was a colossal success when it was released in February 2022, expanding the exacting and difficult combat of FromSoftware's Souls games to open-world gameplay. Players used hundreds of weapons against dozens of bosses across colossal continents that house many secret areas. If you wanted a big game that could take you hundreds of hours to experience everything, Elden Ring was it.FromSoftware released the Shadows of the Erdtree DLC in June 2024, adding a new region, 10 major bosses and over a hundred weapons that can be brought back into the main game. The combination of base game and DLC expand Elden Ring into the preeminent action RPG for players who don't mind a challenge and enjoy cryptic worlds of dark gods with many secrets.Release date: Feb. 25, 2022Genre: High fantasy ARPGDeveloper: FromSoftware- David Lumb
$50 at Amazon
$45 at Walmart
$50 at Best Buy
Remedy Entertainment
Alan Wake 2
Alan Wake 2 arrived in October 2023 with a lot of expectations, following up on the fan-favorite Alan Wake 13 years and two console generations later. Studio Remedy (Control, Quantum Break, Max Payne) produced an all-timer survival horror game that truly feels like a singular experience you won't find anywhere else. Alan Wake 2 appropriately picks up 13 years of in-game time after the original with a story split between two characters: the titular horror writer Alan Wake stuck in the Dark Place and Saga Anderson, FBI agent investigating strange goings-on in the area of Bright Falls. With vibes of Twin Peaks, The X-Files and more dark cult horror, Alan Wake 2 is an incredible game, folding in bits of the so-called "Remedyverse" as Wake's universe absorbs material and characters from Control and other games in the studio's lineup. And if it hasn't been spoiled for you, there's a musical number (seriously) in the game, as has become a tradition with Remedy's oeuvre, that will make you pump your fist in raucous joy. Remedy surprise-released the first DLC expansion, Night Springs, in mid-2024. The second, Lake House, is coming in October 2024. These require the Expansion Pass, which is included in the digital or physical Deluxe Edition -- in short, just upgrade to or buy the Deluxe Edition of Alan Wake 2 to get access to both.Read our Alan Wake 2 review.Release date: Oct. 27, 2023Genre: Mind-bending survival horror third-person shooterDeveloper: Remedy Entertainment- David Lumb
$50 at Amazon
$60 at Target
PlayStation
Ratchet & Clank: Rift Apart
Ratchet & Clank: A Rift Apart, which came out in June 2021, brings back the iconic duo for another adventure with a wild array of guns, collectible bolts, upgrades and gadgets. In this game, Ratchet discovers he's not the only Lombax in the galaxy after meeting the female Rivet (who appropriately has her own robot, Kit). Insomniac Games' A Rift Apart was lauded for its graphics and fun platformer gameplay, but the game particularly wowed players with its titular rifts that players dived through to enter slightly altered or entirely new worlds without loading times, which was made possible by the PS5's solid-state hard drive. Aside from that technological stunt, the game is a fun shooting-oriented platformer suitable for gamers of all ages who want bright, delightful visuals in a fun action game.Release date: June 11, 2021Genre: Third-person platformer with shooting elementsDeveloper: Insomniac Games- David Lumb
$40 at Amazon
$39 at Walmart
$70 at Best Buy
Watch this: My Exclusive PlayStation 5 Pro Demo: What $700 Gets You, and Why It Matters
06:16
Best PS5 game FAQs
What PS5 games are coming out next?
In 2025, the console will be getting Assassin's Creed: Shadows, Metal Gear Solid Delta: Snake Eater, Death Stranding 2: On the Beach, Doom: The Dark Ages, Grand Theft Auto 6 and many more big-name titles.
What is the bestselling PS5 game in 2024?
According to the research group Circana, the bestselling PS5 game in the year to date is EA Sports College Football 25.
What's the bestselling PS5 game of all time?
The bestselling PS5 game over the console's lifetime is Marvel's Spider-Man 2. Since it was released in October 2023, the game has sold more than 11 million copies worldwide.
What's the best PS5 game?
Naming the best PS5 game is subjective and answers will vary according to each gamer's preferences. The three authors of this article, however, voted that Astro Bot was the overall best PS5 game right now. With its joyous platformer gameplay and signature PlayStation character cameos, Astro Bot is a critically acclaimed standout that should please many gamers.
Recent updates to the listMarch 2025: Added Split Fiction, Monster Hunter Wilds.June 2025: Added Days Gone Remastered, Returnal and Death Stranding Director's Cut
How we determined CNET's best PS5 games
When creating this list of best PS5 games, we factored in how unique and enjoyable these games are for most players, from impressive graphics to novel gameplay to compelling narratives. Our picks cover a variety of genres from fantasy to retro platformers to shooters to racing games, and while we favored console-exclusive games you won't find on Xbox, PC or Nintendo Switch, we also included some can't-miss games that appear on multiple platforms. If you're looking for help choosing your next game, CNET's top PS5 list is a good place to start narrowing your choices.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.