How much RAM do you really need in 2025? I broke it down for Mac and Windows users | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Laptops
How much RAM do you really need in 2025? I broke it down for Mac and Windows users
Considering upgrading your slow PC? Wondering how much RAM is enough? Here's what you need to know.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 4:00 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Kyle Kucharski
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysRAM allows computers run fast and optimally.16GB is now the standard for PCs and laptops.Heavy users may need more RAM. Know when to upgrade.I used to struggle when shopping for a new computer. Over time, I learned to narrow things down to what I call the "performance trifecta" -- three main components you should be mindful of when buying a laptop or desktop: processor, storage drive, and RAM. The first two are pretty easy to figure out. A good processor ensures that a computer performs well, and a lot of local storage means you'll have plenty of room for all your files.Also: Why my favorite MacBook Pro alternative is this Windows laptop with a striking designMemory is a component I don't think many people fully understand or pay attention to (I was certainly a part of this group). RAM, or random access memory, is essentially a computer's short-term memory. Instead of saving data directly onto an SSD, the computer stores files temporarily in the RAM for quick access. That way, the device won't need to use its storage to open a document or software resources, ensuring fast performance.
There's a lot of information and differing opinions regarding RAM and how much you need on your computer. Should you opt for the laptop with the 32GB LPDDR5X RAM, or will 16GB be enough? I'm here to cut through all the fog and provide easy-to-understand advice on the amount of memory you should get.
How much RAM do you need in 2025?
Kerry Wan/ZDNETThe short answer: it depends on the operating system. For Windows machines, 16GB of RAM has become the operational minimum on new consumer laptops. Modern workloads have ramped up to such a degree that less RAM on a Windows device is fine, but it will limit you to everyday tasks like writing emails, internet browsing or watching YouTube videos. But let's be real here: the average worker is probably running dozens of tabs in their browser, a handful of apps in the background, and (possibly) generative AI, all of which demand memory power. In that sense, most people using their Windows laptops for work will want at least 16GB (for a value-driven, future-proof option) for a smooth user experience. Also: The MacBook Air is on sale for $799 - Here's why I recommend it for most peopleWhen it comes to MacBooks, things are a little bit different. Because Apple's machines are so optimized to handle daily workflows, 8GB of RAM goes a bit further than a stock laptop running Windows. In fact, it wasn't until only recently that Apple made 16GB the starting point with the new MacBook Air M4. MacBooks with 8GB are still solid machines for daily use, while more powerful models like the MacBook Pro and MacBook Pro Max offer substantial power with 24GB, 36GB, or more, making them some of the most powerful laptops on the market (and some of the priciest).Besides just Windows and Macs, Chromebooks are a third category of consumer laptops that have seen a spike in popularity over the last few years due to their average lower price and lightweight operating system: ChromeOS. Because ChromeOS is so streamlined, Chomebooks can get along just fine with 8GB or even less, making them great machines for handling the basics like working out of the browser and having your Google Suite at your fingertips with snappy performance and a low price. The trade-off, however, is that you'll have less access to apps you'd otherwise find on Windows. Also: Is a refurbished MacBook viable in 2025? I did the math, and here's my expert adviceAll in all, it's true to say that the more memory you have, the better your computer should perform. But having too much RAM can also be a poor return on investment because you end up spending money on a resource that you hardly ever use to its fullest extent. It's like owning a big house but only using a few of the rooms. When buying a new laptop, I just recommend having a clear understanding of what you want to use it for -- that way you can make a realistic expectation about how much RAM you need.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS M4 MacBook Air Apple's M4 MacBook Air raises the bar for ultraportable laptops with more default memory, better external display support, and higher overall performance.
View at Best Buy
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Lenovo Chromebook Plus 14
Lenovo's Chromebook Plus 14 brings an OLED display and marathon battery to the Chromebook line.
View at Best Buy
What does DDR5 mean?
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETSometimes, when shopping for a computer, you'll see the letters "DDR" followed by a number. This is an acronym that stands for "double data rate." Without getting too deep into the weeds, DDR is a type of technology that improves the data transfer speed from RAM to other components, such as the processor. There have been five main DDR generations so far, with the latest and fastest standard being DDR5.
Similar to 16GB of memory, DDR technology has effectively become the new standard for RAM as users demand faster speeds. There are also variations of the technology. A notable version is LPDDR5X, which stands for low-power double data rate 5X, a more energy-efficient version of DDR5 designed specifically for mobile devices.
Don't expect DDR6 RAM to be released for a computer near you anytime soon. We saw the JEDEC (Joint Electron Device Engineering Council) announce the release of LPDDR6 back in early July. The JEDEC is the organization that established DDR as a standard for computers. The technology is available for manufacturers to implement in their devices, but whether or not it'll happen -- or how soon -- is yet to be seen. Want more laptop advice? Add ZDNET as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.
When should you upgrade?
Jason Hiner/ZDNET16GB is fine for most cases, although if you're a gamer or creative professional, you should consider opting for 32GB of RAM. More RAM will ensure that the games you play and the video-editing apps you use for work operate more smoothly. I have that amount for my personal computer, and I'm very happy with that setup because I don't just write.
I also play games on my desktop, edit photographs and videos, and run virtual machines, among other things. It's a heavy workload that requires the correct amount of resources to operate; even then, I am considering upgrading my PC to have more. It's not uncommon for me to see my workload take up over 70% of my computer's total RAM.
Also: The best mini PCs of 2025: Expert recommended from Apple, Intel, and moreI consider anything above 32GB of memory excessive unless you're a specific type of user. If you're editing 8K videos or running heavy apps simultaneously, then you'll probably need 48GB or 64GB of RAM. A good laptop that can deliver would be something like the M4 MacBook Pro or the Dell Premium 16. These are solid, top-of-the-line machines capable of tackling tough workloads.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Dell Premium 16 Built for demanding workloads, the Dell Premium 16 is especially well-suited for creative tasks like graphic design and 3D modeling.
View at Dell
Why should you trust me?
I've been writing about both software and consumer electronics for almost 10 years now, and in that time, I've worked in many different settings, from the traditional office to the home office, and even someone's backyard. The remote experience has made me extremely selective about what I choose to make my main computer, as I want to ensure the devices I use can handle my day-to-day tasks. I'm on my computer all day, practically every day of the week.Also: I tested several AIO computers in 2025, and these are the best for your office setupI'm also at a point where I've tried just about every type of laptop on the market. I know which features and specs you should look out for when purchasing a new computer -- and which ones are not worth your time.The advice I have given is not a set of hard and fast rules. I just aim to provide a foundation of what you should look for in a laptop. What is best for you depends on your unique needs.
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How much RAM does your Linux PC really need in 2025? I did the math so you don't have to
Why I recommend this Windows mini PC to casual users and professionals alike (and it's priced well)
The best laptops you can buy: Expert tested
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use