I Fell for a $1.25 Million Scam — Now MrBeast Is Helping Me Hunt Down the Scammers | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Money & Finance
I Fell for a $1.25 Million Scam — Now MrBeast Is Helping Me Hunt Down the Scammers
I lost $1.25 million in a scam, but what I gained were lessons every entrepreneur can learn from. Learn the pitfalls and takeaways from my million-dollar mistake.
By
Erik Bergman
Edited by
Maria Bailey
Sep 22, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
I got scammed out of $1.25 million in a meticulously orchestrated scheme, and sharing the story was the only way to make sense of it.
The experience taught me hard truths about decision-making, trust and handling mistakes — lessons I’m now sharing so others can avoid the same pitfalls.
Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.
This is hard to admit, but I got scammed out of $1.25 million.The money is gone, and I can't get it back. But instead of hiding, I've decided to share my story. My recent post on X about the $1.25 million scam went viral with more than 4 million views and thousands of reposts and comments.MrBeast even chimed in that he would give a $100,000 reward to anyone who could help track down the scammers.Now that I've had even more time to process the situation, I think it's time to share the lessons I've learned from my $1.25 million mistake.How it beganA few years ago, I donated $1.2 million to MrBeast's #TeamSeas campaign to help clean up the oceans. After the donation, I was invited to spend a few days with Jimmy (MrBeast) and his team.
So, when they reached out to me again for a donation to MrBeast's Team Water campaign, I naturally wanted to help. During the discussion, we even talked about planning another meet-up.A few weeks after I donated $1 million to the project, I was added to what looked like a private group text with other major donors; it didn't feel out of place at all. In fact, it seemed like the natural next step.The group looked legitimate. The names were impressive: Mark Rober, Shopify's Tobi Lütke, Stake's Ed Craven, Adin Ross. There was banter, casual voice notes and even more talk about the donor trip. It all lined up with what I'd been expecting — and I felt like I was in the "cool crowd."Then came the pitch: a crypto investment tied to a major exchange. Everyone in the group "joined." I didn't want to be the outsider. So I wired the money. $1.25 million.
Later, I checked in with the real Jimmy and felt my stomach drop. The group text was fake. My money was gone.Related: The 3 Biggest Mistakes That Made Me a Better EntrepreneurLesson 1: Don't make big decisions when you're distractedWhen the scam was unfolding, I was away at a retreat that I'd been planning all year. This was terrible timing for me, but perfect for the scammers.I was relaxed and in the completely wrong headspace for any major decisions. My guard was down, and I was the perfect target.Having reviewed the texts afterward, I see several red flags that would have given me pause any other day. However, I was distracted and made a rash decision.Tip: Don't make major decisions when you're distracted, traveling or emotionally charged. Give yourself the space and energy to sit with the choices and only make a decision with a clear head.Lesson 2: Listen to reality, not the story you're telling yourselfWhen I was added to the text group, I honestly wanted it to be real. I'd talked with MrBeast's team previously about planning a trip, and my brain connected the dots, telling me this was all part of the plan.This also had me overlooking red flags. I didn't verify the phone numbers, and I didn't double-check anything. I trusted what I wanted to be true instead of what the evidence showed. I was naive, and it cost me $1.25 million.
Entrepreneurs make this same mistake all the time. We fall in love with our product, our marketing strategy or our "next" big idea. When our customers and data tell us otherwise, we often struggle to accept that reality and continue pushing what we want instead of what is right.Tip: Don't fall in love with the story you tell yourself. Trust the data, trust what your customers are telling you, and be willing to adjust or pivot.Lesson 3: Don't be afraid of mistakes — share themThis was easily the most embarrassing mistake of my life. I'm a successful entrepreneur, and I made more than $50 million before 30 — being scammed was not supposed to happen to me.But, it did.The easiest way to deal with this mistake would be to hide it. But, I didn't.Instead, I shared it. First with my family and close friends, then publicly online. The responses ranged from "idiot" to "martyr," but overwhelmingly, people appreciated the honesty. Some even admitted they'd been scammed too, but had never told anyone.And then something unexpected happened: MrBeast himself spoke up. He offered a $100,000 reward for credible information leading to the scammers.Sharing reframed the story. From personal embarrassment to a community problem worth solving.Tip: Don't hide from your mistakes. Own them, talk about them, and turn them into lessons others can learn from.Related: Beware of SEO Scammers — Here's How to Spot and Avoid Mediocre SEO AgenciesFinal thoughtsI'll never see the $1.25 million I lost again. But I can use it as the most expensive learning experience of my life.If you take nothing else from my story, take these:Don't make important decisions while distracted.If it's too good to be true, it probably is.Don't be afraid to talk about your mistakes.If you're curious about how this scam actually played out, I've made everything public. On Great.com, we've posted the full chat logs, the wallet addresses and even the phone numbers tied to the scammers. You can see exactly what I saw — and if you spot something that could help track them down, you could earn the $100,000 reward from MrBeast.
This is hard to admit, but I got scammed out of $1.25 million.The money is gone, and I can't get it back. But instead of hiding, I've decided to share my story. My recent post on X about the $1.25 million scam went viral with more than 4 million views and thousands of reposts and comments.MrBeast even chimed in that he would give a $100,000 reward to anyone who could help track down the scammers.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Erik Bergman
Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor
Founder of Great.com
Erik Bergman co-founded Catena Media and helped grow it to over 300 employees and a $200 million valuation before stepping away to start Great.com, an iGaming organization that donates 100% of its profits to environmental charities.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Science & Technology
7 AI Tools to Build a Profitable One-Person Business That Runs While You Sleep
Smart systems to help solo founders scale fast.
By
Ben Angel
Cryptocurrency / Blockchain
Here's What's Slowing Blockchain Adoption for Businesses — and the Key to Moving It Forward
Build once, deploy everywhere — why cross-chain flexibility is the key to mainstream blockchain adoption.
By
Wesley Crook
Business News
A New Trial Will Determine If You Were 'Tricked' Into Joining Amazon Prime
Prime is the world's biggest subscription service with nearly 200 million paying members.
By
Sherin Shibu
Leadership
Retention Isn't an HR or Employee Issue — It's the Leadership Test You Take Every Day
It's a leader's job to build a team that people want to be part of and stay part of.
By
Bidhan Baruah
Business News
Who's Buying TikTok? Here's What We Know About Who Gets the Algorithm.
The deal is reportedly set to be finalized as soon as this week.
By
Erin Davis
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC