Federal Reserve Cuts Interest Rates a Quarter Point | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business News
The Federal Reserve Cut Interest Rates For the First Time This Year. Here's What It Means For Credit Cards and Mortgage Rates.
Officials indicated there could be two more cuts before the end of the year.
By
Sherin Shibu
Edited by
Melissa Malamut
Sep 17, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) cut the federal funds rate by 0.25% on Wednesday, according to analysts.
The move lowers the rate range to 4% to 4.25%.
Here's how the Federal Reserve’s decision affects credit card interest rates and mortgage rates.
The Federal Reserve, which last cut interest rates in December 2024, lowered interest rates .25% on Wednesday.Officials implied that there would be two more cuts to follow later this year. The committee meets in two months, on October 28 and 29. "In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook," the committee wrote in a press release.Related: The Labor Market Has Changed From the 'Great Resignation' to the 'Great Stay' Because 'Workers Aren't Going Anywhere'
EY-Parthenon Chief Economist Gregory Daco told Entrepreneur in a statement that, although inflation is picking back up, "economic activity and employment are simultaneously slowing," causing the balance to tilt toward more rate cuts. He also predicted that there would be two more rate cuts to follow this year.Here's how the interest rate cut could impact your wallet.
U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell speaks at a news conference at the Federal Reserve headquarters, following the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting in Washington, DC, on September 17, 2025. JIM WATSON/AFP via Getty ImagesWhy did the Fed cut rates by a quarter percentage point?Economists and industry experts predicted a 94% chance of a quarter percentage point (0.25%) cut, following data released earlier this month that showed that hiring was slowing, and inflation was 2.9% in August, an increase from July's 2.7% and higher than the Fed's preferred 2% target.The central bank's rate-setting committee, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), has kept interest rates within the 4.25% to 4.5% range for the past nine months as its members analyzed economic activity. The FOMC decides on rate cuts based on two broad goals: minimizing inflation and maximizing economic activity in the labor market. Wednesday's rate cut now lowers the range to 4% to 4.25%.Related: Here's What a Federal Rate Cut Means for Small Businesses, According to Analysts
When is the next Fed meeting, and what is expected?The Fed meets eight times a year in regularly scheduled meetings to set U.S. monetary policy. The FOMC sets the target range for the federal funds rate, the interest rate banks use to lend to each other, which influences broader rates that affect consumers, like credit card interest rates.The committee meets two more times in 2025: October 28-29 and December 9-10, according to the official calendar.Officials indicated two more possible rate cuts this year.How does the Fed affect mortgage rates?The Federal Reserve's decision does not directly affect mortgage rates because mortgage rates are tied to 10-year Treasury bonds. So, a lower federal funds rate does not necessarily mean lower mortgage rates, Melissa Cohn, Regional Vice President of William Raveis Mortgage, told Entrepreneur.
"The Fed cut will not cause mortgage rates to change," Cohn said in an emailed statement.Instead, "how the bond market reacts to the Fed cut will determine the direction of mortgage rates," and what Powell says during the press conference will "be key to market reactions," she wrote.When faced with market uncertainty, investors buy Treasury bonds, driving mortgage rates down.However, the bond market has already recently responded to news of a possible rate cut, with mortgage rates dropping to a three-year low on Tuesday ahead of the Fed meeting. As of Wednesday morning, the average interest rate for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage was 6.24%, one of its lowest levels since early October of last year.
Related: Barbara Corcoran Says This Is the Interest Rate Magic Number That Will Make the Market 'Go Ballistic'How does a rate cut affect credit cards?Credit card interest rates tend to move in alignment with the federal funds rate, per Bankrate. So the 0.25% cut could have an impact on credit cardholders with a reduction of 0.25% to their interest rates.Other market conditions, like inflation and the demand and supply of credit, affect the basis for most credit card interest rates. That's why interest rates for credit cards as a whole have been increasing, from 15% in 2021 to more than 21% in 2025, despite rate cuts last year.Credit card companies are charging higher interest rates than four years ago, per Bankrate.
The Federal Reserve, which last cut interest rates in December 2024, lowered interest rates .25% on Wednesday.Officials implied that there would be two more cuts to follow later this year. The committee meets in two months, on October 28 and 29. "In assessing the appropriate stance of monetary policy, the Committee will continue to monitor the implications of incoming information for the economic outlook," the committee wrote in a press release.Related: The Labor Market Has Changed From the 'Great Resignation' to the 'Great Stay' Because 'Workers Aren't Going Anywhere'
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Sherin Shibu
Entrepreneur Staff
News Reporter
Sherin Shibu is a business news reporter at Entrepreneur.com. She previously worked for PCMag, Business Insider, The Messenger, and ZDNET as a reporter and copyeditor. Her areas of coverage encompass tech, business, strategy, finance, and even space. She is a Columbia University graduate.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
I Founded a $1.7 Billion Startup for Small Businesses — Here's the Secret Every Entrepreneur Should Know
Here's How People Are Actually Using ChatGPT, According to OpenAI
Over Half of Workers Tell Employers This Expensive Lie — Especially Gen Z
Lock
How to Turn Your 'Marketable Passion' Into Income After Retirement
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
She Started a Business in Her 50s — and Still Leads It Nearly 20 Years Later: 'Don't Let Fear Stop You.'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Buying / Investing in Business
Big Investors Are Betting on This 'Unlisted' Stock
You can join them as an early-stage investor as this company disrupts a $1.3T market.
By
StackCommerce
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Thought Leaders
I've Built Companies Across 6 Countries. Here's Why AI Changes Everything for Non-Tech Founders
Non-technical founders can gain an edge by rethinking products and focusing on AI where it creates real impact.
By
Johnny LE
Business Models
What Every Entrepreneur Needs to Know About the Next Phase of the Subscription Economy
The subscription economy is shifting from ownership to access. Here's how entrepreneurs must respond.
By
Jessica Wong
Growing a Business
The Shocking Cost of Vendor Data Breaches — and How to Safeguard Your Operations
Your vendors' data disasters can destroy your business, even when you've never heard of the third-party provider that actually caused the crisis.
By
Chongwei Chen
Marketing
How Lavazza and the US Open Brewed the Perfect Marketing Campaign
Lavazza is a good example of sports marketing because it serves authenticity and creativity to keep its brand in the game.
By
Leo Zevin
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC