Fall Clothes + Accessories That Are Going Out of Style, From Stylists - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Entertainment
Stylists share 10 items you should get rid of from your fall wardrobe
By
Cheyenne Elwell
Some styles are in this fall, but others are out.
Moritz Scholz/Getty Images
2025-09-17T14:40:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Business Insider asked two stylists which items to remove from your wardrobe this fall.
Distressed denim and cargo joggers are falling out of favor as refined looks take their place.
Clothes with cut-outs and shoes with chunky lug soles may also be losing their appeal.
As the leaves change, so do the trends. Fall brings new layers, richer textures, and fresh takes on the season's staples. However, what worked last year might not be what's in style now.
Business Insider consulted with two professional stylists to find out which attire to retire from our closets this fall — and what we should wear instead.
Swap out your cropped puffer out for an aviator jacket.
Cropped puffers can be stylish, but they may not be everywhere this fall.
Edward Berthelot/Getty Images
Cropped puffers fit into the quiet luxury trend, but fall 2025 outerwear is shifting in both style and volume, said David Zyla, stylist and author of "Color Your Style."He said more maximal styles, like leather aviator jackets, are taking their place."An iconic staple in menswear originally designed for military pilots, this pairs especially well with other vintage-inspired pieces such as a slip skirt or Mary Jane shoes," the stylist told BI.
Blanket scarves are being replaced by "scarf coats."
Blanket scarves can be chic, but they may not be popular this fall.
Jeremy Moeller/Getty Images
This season, designers are attaching scarf-like panels directly onto coats, which creates built-in drama without adding extra layers. There's no reason to add a blanket scarf to your outfit if you can buy outerwear that already has one built in. Plus, these so-called "scarf coats" are on trend, said Zyla. "Pair scarf coats with one of the season's must-have boots, such as a moto, riding, or harness-style, and consider cinching the waist with a belt or oversized belt bag," Zyla said.
Consider retiring your shredded jeans.
Ripped denim isn't the "it" style of the season.
Edward Berthelot/Getty Images
Once edgy, overly ripped denim now feels more worn-out than fashion-forward."With people moving between multiple events and occasions in a single day, denim needs to flex across contexts," Natalie Tincher, the principal stylist and founder of BU Style, told BI. "Overly ripped jeans simply don't offer that versatility and can look dated."As cleaner, more intentional silhouettes take center stage this fall, the stylist recommends a barrel, wide-leg, or straight-leg denim in dark or medium washes as a replacement."The key is choosing denim that can be mixed and matched to fit different settings and moods, while working seamlessly with the pieces you already own," she said.
Tiny bags are out, and bigger purses are in.
Small bags aren't always practical.
Jeremy Moeller/Getty Images
As Zyla mentioned, maximal styles are trending this season. To balance those outfits,
handbag trends have also shifted in scale — micro purses ones are out, bigger ones are in. Fortunately, larger bags are practical enough to carry everything you need without sacrificing style.The stylist recommends an oversized quilted or suede handbag. The textures can pair especially well with fall outerwear, from the sleek canvas of a cropped trench to the plush finish of a faux-mink coat.
Say goodbye to low-rise skinny jeans.
Low-rise pants aren't always the best option.
Edward Berthelot/Getty Images
If you're going to wear skinny jeans, you may want to stick with mid- or high-rise styles.Zyla told BI that tight, lower-rise jeans can feel overly constrictive, especially as more relaxed silhouettes are becoming popular. In fact, you may even want to opt for looser, flared denim. If you're not sure where to start, Zyla suggested trying darker washes, such as an inky indigo, which can be easy to style.
Try replacing lug-sole loafers with boat shoes.
Lug-sole loafers might compete with other chunky accessories.
Edward Berthelot/Getty Images
Chunky, lug-sole loafers had their moment. And as large sunglasses and big bags become popular, these thick-soled shoes might just compete with those other statement accessories. Instead, Zyla said, give boat shoes a try this season. Long tied to preppy style, they pair well with plaid trousers and polo sweaters. Plus, they tend to be a fairly comfortable walking shoe.
Cozy cargo joggers are giving way to more polished styles.
Cargo jogggers may be tough to dress up.
Jeremy Moeller/Getty Images
"Cargo joggers were the perfect mix of cozy and functional when we were living in athleisure and working from the couch, but as wardrobes shift back into pieces that can handle a full day — work, errands, dinner — they fall short," Tincher told BI.Instead, she suggests wide-leg or barrel-leg pants, which feel fresh, work across genders, and can easily be dressed up or down.
Clothes and accessories with lots of logos may not be the chicest options.
Consider wearing logos in a subtle way.
Moritz Scholz/Getty Images
According to Tincher, looks with large logos (or lots of them) are falling out of style. It's easy for excessive branding to feel more like advertising than self-expression.Instead, she recommends making your own signature "logo" through style. This could be frequently wearing a color you love that people can associate with you, sticking to a go-to accessory, or styling a particular sihloutte over and over."The repetition of those personal choices becomes your identifier — far more memorable than any monogram," she added.
Cropped cardigans may be replacing baggier, oversized ones.
Cropped cardigans can look chic if styled correctly.
Edward Berthelot/Getty Images
Oversized cardigans worked well with skinny jeans as the proportions balance each other out. However, wider trousers are now trending — and pairing them with an oversized top can result in a sloppy look.To balance an outfit with looser pants, Tincher suggests trying cropped or waist-length knits instead."They hit higher on the body, creating balance with wide-leg bottoms and giving shape back to your frame," she told BI. "Think of it as a natural silhouette progression: As pants got wider, knits got shorter."
Clothing with dramatic cut-outs isn't always versatile.
More subtle cut-outs might be easier to style than more distinct ones.
Christian Vierig/Getty Images
Those bold midriff or side cut-outs might work for a special night out, but they're tricky to sport in other settings, Tincher said. Instead of dramatic cut-outs, the stylist recommends pieces that use transparency in subtle, intentional ways."A fine-knit sweater with lace-trimmed shoulders or cuffs adds just enough intrigue without crossing into 'too much for the office,'" she said.
Recommended video
Fashion
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account