NAND and DRAM prices surge by up to 20% — contract price increases driven by AI demands and tight supply | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
SSDs
Samsung 9100 Pro 8TB SSD review: Bigger, badder, and better
DRAM
DRAM prices are about to skyrocket — DDR4 and GDDR6 among formats that could increase in price by up to 45%
Storage
Expect HDD, SSD shortages as AI rewrites the rules of storage hierarchy
GPUs
Samsung reportedly slashes HBM3 prices to woo Nvidia
DDR4
DDR4 prices are now so high that vendors have decided to start making it again
DRAM
DDR4 is suddenly insanely expensive as prices nearly triple in two month
Tech Industry
SK Hynix projects HBM market to expand 30% annually through 2030
Tech Industry
SK hynix dethrones Samsung to become world's top-selling memory maker for the first time
Tech Industry
Sandisk and SK hynix join forces to standardize High Bandwidth Flash memory
Storage
Samsung's revived Z-NAND targets 15x performance increase over traditional NAND
Semiconductors
AI boom drives explosive demand for leading-edge process nodes
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia's next-gen AI chip could double the price of H20 if China export is approved
SSDs
SK hynix announces mass production of its 2Tb 3D QLC NAND
SSDs
Synology starts selling overpriced 1.6 TB SSDs for $535
DRAM
China's CXMT reportedly delays mass production of DDR5 chips to late 2025
Tech Industry
NAND and DRAM prices surge by up to 20% — contract price increases driven by AI demands and tight supply
News
By
Luke James
published
17 September 2025
Contract prices jump by up to 20% as AI build-outs drive aggressive cloud procurement and tip the balance of supply.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Samsung)
Contract prices for both NAND and DRAM have jumped by an estimated 15-20% in the fourth quarter of 2025, according to numbers published by DigiTimes on September 17, an off-season surge the publication ties directly to AI infrastructure build-outs and supply tightness.“Supply shortages led to aggressive procurement from cloud service providers, with high-stack 3D NAND products nearly sold out,” writes DigiTimes, adding that, “3D NAND… has attracted strong priority purchasing interest from CSP customers,” citing demand for faster read speed and larger die capacities. This is a stark difference from the normal Q4 pattern, when component prices typically drift lower.There are signs that the supply side is tightening. TrendForce says SanDisk pushed for a roughly 10% NAND hike in September, while Micron temporarily suspended DRAM and NAND price quotations to reassess allocations after customer forecasts pointed to shortages. The firm also flags a structural shortage in nearline HDDs that is forcing hyperscalers to accelerate plans for QLC SSD deployments in 2026.
You may like
DRAM prices are about to skyrocket — DDR4 and GDDR6 among formats that could increase in price by up to 45%
Expect HDD, SSD shortages as AI rewrites the rules of storage hierarchy
Samsung reportedly slashes HBM3 prices to woo Nvidia
DigiTimes goes further, saying Samsung’s next-gen V9 NAND for 2026 is “nearly sold out”, with cloud customers locking in capacity early due to its improved density and cost advantages. A separate TrendForce brief from this week, however, says Samsung has delayed V9 QLC to the first half of 2026, which suggests customers may be reserving capacity ahead of firm volume timing. Either way, it’s clear to see that cloud buyers are aggressively securing supply well into the future.This could easily have a knock-on effect on consumer prices. If hyperscalers are absorbing more wafers for enterprise SSDs while DRAM makers prioritize server parts and HBM, retail pricing is going to lose some of its slack. TrendForce has already warned that legacy DRAM types remain under the most pressure as capacity is reallocated, and if cloud orders continue to rise, the familiar winter bargains on NVMe drives could be thinner than expected.One tell that money is switching hands is controller specialist Phison’s record August figures. It reported a revenue of NT$5.934 billion, up 23% year over year. That’s a dramatic jump from last year’s weak base. The company has attributed the strength to non-consumer demand and closer tie-ups with NAND makers, which fits the broader theme of data-center-led flash tightness.The bottom line is that multiple data points now converge on a common theme: AI is rewriting cloud storage hierarchy while HDD supply is constrained and flash makers have more pricing power than they usually do in the year’s final quarter. If you’re planning an upgrade, watch retail memory prices closely and move quickly when a good price pops up, because it probably won’t stick around for long.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
TOPICS
Samsung
Micron
See all comments (1)
Luke JamesSocial Links NavigationContributorLuke James is a freelance writer and journalist.  Although his background is in legal, he has a personal interest in all things tech, especially hardware and microelectronics, and anything regulatory.
Read more
DRAM prices are about to skyrocket — DDR4 and GDDR6 among formats that could increase in price by up to 45%
Expect HDD, SSD shortages as AI rewrites the rules of storage hierarchy
Samsung reportedly slashes HBM3 prices to woo Nvidia
DDR4 prices are now so high that vendors have decided to start making it again
DDR4 is suddenly insanely expensive as prices nearly triple in two month
SK Hynix projects HBM market to expand 30% annually through 2030
Latest in Tech Industry
OpenAI is reportedly poaching Apple talent to build its first consumer hardware device
Intel says it remains committed to its Arc graphics project
$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks
Nvidia drops a cool $900 million on Enfabrica tech and hiring its CEO, report claims
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
xAI's new gas turbine facility gets halfway to Elon Musk's 1-gigawatt 'AI factory' goal
Latest in News
Iconic Vectrex console reimagined for the modern day with OLED display, microSD, and wireless controllers
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
Microsoft Gaming Copilot hits Windows in public beta
AMD relaunches $40 Athlon 3000G CPU with new packaging and cooler
Borderlands 4 props come to 3D printing fans
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
bit_user
Wow, I'm doubly glad I bought when I did! I hope this bubble blows over in a couple more years.
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.