This popular Android Auto feature might be coming back - here's why | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
Android
This popular Android Auto feature might be coming back - here's why
Google appears to be walking back a controversial change to Android Auto.
Written by
Artie Beaty, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 16, 2025 at 12:34 p.m. PT
ZDNET | Charlie OsborneFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysGoogle appears to be reverting to an older Android Auto display.A recent upgrade to Material You changed the background colors.A recent beta version shows code that gives users a choice.Android Auto is scrapping a controversial feature.Last month, the Android in-car infotainment system rolled out a small change -- an update to the Material You design. The upgrade didn't add or take away any functionality, but changed the look of Android Auto to match your phone. Also: Android Auto not connecting? This one setting tweak fixed things for meThe new design features a single-color screen as the background instead of the previous version's blurred album artwork background. It doesn't change the listening experience at all, but it's nice to see the background change with each song. Users were quick to complain about the new redesign, and many strongly preferred the old way.Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Album covers make a comebackCode discovered by Android Authority in the latest beta version of Android Auto indicates that the fan-preferred artwork style may be set to make a return. In the code, there's an option to toggle between the two styles. If you like the old style, you can switch back. If the new style doesn't bother you, you can roll with it. Google hasn't announced any changes, and this doesn't mean anything will change for sure, but the fact that the code is present in a functional beta version indicates that the option to give users a choice is well into production and will likely become a full feature soon. Also: Finally, an Android Auto adapter that's reliable, highly functional, and won't break the bankNot everything is going back to exactly how it used to be, however, as Android Authority also discovered that the latest beta has smaller navigation buttons than before, but bigger album artwork and a larger seek bar. Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it down
Your Android phone just got 3 useful features for free - including an audio upgrade
Traveling soon? 5 simple ways I thwart phone thieves - and you can too
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use