Best Tax Software 2025: Don't Delay if You Haven't Filed - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET Money
The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners. Review CNET's ethics statement.
Money
Best Tax Software 2025: Don't Delay if You Haven't Filed
These eight online tax services can help you file your taxes.
Our Experts
Written by
Danni Santana
Article updated on April 16, 2025 at 11:42 PM PDT
Danni Santana Former Staff Editor Danni Santana spent nine years as an editor and business journalist covering industries including sports, retail, restaurants, and personal finance.
He is a graduate of the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at CUNY. His biggest loves outside of the newsroom are running, cooking, playing video games and collecting sneakers.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Table of Contents
Best Tax Software 2025: Don't Delay if You Haven't Filed
TurboTax
H&R Block
FreeTaxUSA
Cash App Taxes
TaxSlayer
TaxAct
Jackson Hewitt
What is tax software and how does it work?
Who should use tax software?
Who shouldn’t use tax software?
How to choose the best online tax software
FAQs
How we rate tax software
TurboTax Best tax filing service for most filers See at TurboTax TurboTax
combines tax expertise with an easy to use interface that makes it accessible to both experienced filers and newcomers filing their taxes alone for the first time.  Like other online tax filing software, TurboTax will tell you exactly where to find the information it needs on your tax forms and alert you if something doesn’t look right. The service also informs you if you’ve added forms that will require you to upgrade tiers, so you’ll always know how much you stand to pay before filing. TurboTax covers a range of taxpayers with its three tiers — TurboTax Free Edition (approximately 37% of taxpayers qualify. Form 1040 + limited tax credits only), Deluxe and Premium. Should you require assistance, Turbo offers TurboTax Live Assisted and TurboTax Live Full Service, where you can ask an expert questions or hand over your taxes to a tax professional. TurboTax’s biggest downer remains its higher price tag compared to competitors. But for most filers — perhaps with the exception of freelancers and some investors — the price is digestible.  Learn more in our full TurboTax review . Pricing: Free to $139 for federal; state additional (learn more)
Free to $139 for federal* (without TurboTax Live Assisted or TurboTax Live Full Service). Free to $64 per state filing. $79 to $209 for TurboTax Live Assisted (state additional). $129 to $349 for TurboTax Live Full Service (state additional) *Approximately 37% of taxpayers qualify for TurboTax Free Edition. Form 1040 + limited tax credits only.
H&R Block Best free tax filing service See at H&R Block H&R Block
has many things going for it. It boasts a great free filing option with more forms than TurboTax. Its paid tiers are also cheaper. And it even offers live customer support with paid tiers at no additional cost.  While not as smooth as its top competitor, H&R Block features a well-designed, interview-style system that helps you navigate the tax-filing process and avoid mistakes. Help screens and FAQs are also comprehensive.  H&R Block offers four tiers for filing their returns in 2025 — Free Online, Deluxe, Premium and Self-Employed — in addition to in-person assistance at a local branch and online help from a Live Tax Pro.  If you can justify paying for H&R Block’s Deluxe, Premium or Self-Employed tiers, you’ll also get access to H&R Block’s AI Tax Assist tool. The AI chatbot is a delight to use, but it’s not perfect. Downgrading tiers on H&R Block still requires you to contact the company directly. That should change by
mid-February . But you will lose your progress and be required to start your return over. Learn more in our full H&R Block review . Pricing: Free to $125 for federal; state additional (learn more)
Free to $125 for federal. $0 to $49 for state. $55 to $220 for Live Tax Review; $49 per state. File with a tax pro starting $99; state is additional.
FreeTaxUSA A great free or low-cost filing option See at FreeTaxUSA FreeTaxUSA offers free federal returns — no matter what your tax situation is. For many this makes it a great choice over services like TurboTax and H&R Block, if you aren’t too hung up on all the bells and whistles an online tax software service can provide.  Like most online tax software, FreeTaxUSA lets you upload your previous tax return to get you started. But the frills largely end there. You will be required to manually input a large amount of information. FreeTaxUSA’s online support is also lacking. While federal returns are free, in line with the service’s name, FreeTaxUSA charges $15 per state tax return.  If you need assistance while working on your return, FreeTaxUSA offers a Deluxe version that grants access to a tax specialist via live chat and unlimited amendments to your tax return. Pro Support includes the benefits of Deluxe and adds access to a tax pro, phone support and live screen share.  Learn more in our full review of FreeTaxUSA . Pricing: Free to $8; state additional (learn more)
Federal tax return: Free. State tax return: $15. Deluxe Edition: $8. Pro Support: $40.
Cash App Taxes A free option that's great for confident filers See at Cash App Cash App Taxes
offers a fully free tax preparation service that doesn’t skimp on IRS forms and schedules. It provides one federal and one state tax return at no cost, with a
maximum refund guarantee . The lack of file importing and an unusual desktop login process (you have to download the mobile app first before starting your return online) might discourage some people from trying the service. But once you’re in, the software works like most programs: A simple, interview-style process collects information about your tax situation and uses it to populate IRS forms. Cash App Taxes requires you to manually input most information. Technical support and tax help content are also limited. Because of this, we recommend Cash App Taxes to filers with a few forms and relatively simple tax situations.
Learn more in our full Cash App Taxes review for 2025 . Pricing: Free (learn more)
Free. There are currently no paid versions of Cash App Taxes.
TaxSlayer Best tax filing service for freelancers, gig workers and sole proprietors See at TaxSlayer TaxSlayer
is our choice for the best tax software for freelancers and gig economy workers.  TaxSlayer offers four levels of service — Simply Free, Classic, Premium and Self-Employed — that range from free to $73 to file a federal return under current promotional pricing. Simply Free has many restrictions, including a $100,000 cap on taxable income and the inability to claim dependents. It does include a free state return, however, which is notable since its paid tiers charge $48 per state return. You can file your taxes, no matter your tax situation, with TaxSlayer’s Classic tier. But you’ll have to pony up for its higher tiers if you need personalized assistance beyond basic phone and chat support. For example, in order to get priority support and access a tax pro, you must pay for its Premium tier. Freelancers needing assistance from tax professionals versed in self-employment taxes need to pay for the self-employed tier. TaxSlayer’s interface and support content isn’t as polished as other top competitors, but it’s a bargain for self-employed filers who would otherwise pay well over $100 on TurboTax and H&R Block. It’s also an attractive option if you’re used to completing tax returns on your own or qualify for free. Learn more in our full TaxSlayer review for 2025 . Pricing: Free to $73 for federal; state additional (learn more)
Free to $73 for federal. Free to $48 per state filing.
TaxAct Best accuracy guarantee See at TaxAct TaxAct’s major distinction continues to be its $100,000 Tax Accuracy Guarantee. The service promises to get you an accurate refund and the maximum allowable by law. If it doesn’t, TaxAct will refund you up to $100,000 to cover the difference between your actual refund and what you missed out on after testing another service, as well as any associated software, legal or audit costs. TaxAct doesn’t have the feature set of other online tax software options, but it offers a straightforward service at a discounted price compared to top competitors. This makes it a good choice if you don’t qualify to file for free on TurboTax and H&R Block, which are known to charge more for paid tiers. TaxAct does offer a free tier for federal filing, but requires $54 for a state return with the tier.  TaxAct’s one-on-one professional tax assistance service, Xpert Assist, is also available for $20 to $199 depending on the package you choose. Its free help tools for tax filers include a handy tax glossary and instructions for filling out a wide range of common tax forms. Learn more in our full review of Tax Act 2025 . Pricing: Free to $109 for federal; state additional (learn more)
Free to $109 for federal*. $54 to $65 per state filing. $20 to $199 for Xpert Assist. *S elf-employed tier only includes freelance income, sole proprietor and LLC.
Jackson Hewitt Best for filing multiple state tax returns See at Jackson Hewitt Jackson Hewitt is a no-frills online tax software service. As an example, the service does not allow you to upload any tax documents, such as a W-2 form, and is in need of more robust customer help and support tools. That said,
Jackson Hewitt Online ‘s flat rate of $25 for a federal return and unlimited state returns is hard to beat. Unlike most competitors that feature different tiers, based on your tax situation, Jackson Hewitt Online lets you file for one price no matter how complicated your taxes are.  The company offers free IRS audit assistance and a Lifetime Accuracy Guarantee to protect against unexpected penalties or interest, in addition to a maximum refund guarantee, or your money back.  And if you want more one-on-one attention, you can file at a
participating Walmart location
or visit one of its 5,200 offices to file with a Tax Pro (prices vary depending on your filing situation and state of residence). Learn more in our full Jackson Hewitt review for 2025 . Pricing : $25 federal and state (learn more)
$25 for federal and unlimited state filing.What is tax software and how does it work?
Online tax software can help you file your taxes by guiding you through the process -- often for a fee -- and double-checking that you’ve filled out all of the necessary tax forms for your filing status and situation accurately. It’s best to consider your options based on your budget and tax situation before choosing the service you file with. Some other things to consider are how well a service holds your hand throughout the tax-filing process and the level of live help and support you want. In addition to companies on our best list, the IRS offers a Direct File service that launched in 2024. While the service is free, not all tax situations are covered. The agency is also once again partnering with tax services to offer IRS FreeFile to taxpayers who made less than $84,000 last year at no cost.Most tax software options offer one of two types of systems: interview-based filing or form-based filing. Interview-based filing prompts you to answer questions about your finances and then inputs your answers into the correct tax forms. This is best if you’re new to filing your taxes or if you want guidance along the way. Most tax software, TurboTax, TaxSlayer and H&R Block, for instance, use a type of interview-style interface.The form-based filing option can be a bit more complicated if you’re not familiar with the many tax forms based on how you earned income in the previous year. Some programs allow you to toggle back and forth between interview and form, which is a nice feature just in case you want to check your figures along the way. Who should use tax software?
Though professionally prepared returns still outnumber self-prepared returns, the gap is shrinking as more people discover the convenience and cost savings of doing it themselves."With a simple return prepared by a professional averaging $200 to $300, many Americans are choosing to do it themselves at far less cost simply to save money," Jassen Bowman, an IRS enrolled agent, said in an email.If you have a fairly simple tax return, meaning you have a W-2, want to claim some basic credits and don’t need to itemize your taxes, you may find tax software easy and helpful to complete this portion of your tax-filing responsibilities. “Even for somewhat complex returns, which might include several tax credits, self-employment income, rental properties, capital gains from the sale of stocks or real estate, and other complex situations, modern tax prep software makes it fairly simple for the average person to complete their return,” Bowman said.Instead of just offering digital versions of the IRS forms, all major commercial tax preparation software companies now offer a heavily simplified interview-based model. The software guides you through the tax return process by asking you easy-to-understand questions in plain language, rather than tax jargon. While tax software can catch certain errors, it can’t catch everything. That’s why some tax software companies reimburse you for any potential penalties assessed due to a calculation error on the software provider’s part. Remember to always review your return for errors before submitting it. Who shouldn’t use tax software?
Though tax software can also help you tackle more-complicated returns, people with self-employment income, itemized deductions, multiple real estate properties and other investments, or corporate business owners, might find it difficult to navigate even the most user-friendly tax software.In this case, we recommend reaching out to a certified public accountant or visiting a tax preparer for virtual or in-person tax filing help. Going this route may also save you the possibility of missing out on an important deduction or credit you weren’t aware of."In short, the more complex your tax situation, the more likely it is that you should consult with a tax professional such as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) or Enrolled Agent (EA)," Bowman said.You also don’t want to pay for tax software before checking to see if you qualify for free filing options elsewhere. If you have a simple tax return, you may be able to file your taxes with online software for free. If your adjusted gross income is under $84,000 for 2024, you may also qualify for free tax filing under the IRS Free File program. Seniors, those who speak limited English and filers with disabilities may also qualify for free filing services through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance program or Tax Counseling for the Elderly. How to choose the best online tax software
Each tax software option works a little differently. You should compare different tax software based on your filing situation. Some other factors to consider include: Ease of filing: Tax laws are constantly changing, and updates to software are embedded in the back end so the less you have to worry about when filing, the better experience you’ll have. Tax forms offered: Not everyone has the same filing needs. If you need access to
more tax forms , you’ll want to make sure the tax software option you’re considering offers all of the forms you need. Price: Many tax software programs have some level of free filing for basic returns, but charge for more-complicated tax filing situations, state tax returns or customer support, audit protection and tax assistance. Compare costs among your filing options to make sure you don’t overpay. Once you’re paying more than a couple hundred dollars for tax software, it might be less expensive to reach out to a tax professional for a professional set of eyes on your return. Customer support: If you’re stuck and need extra help, customer support is vital to filing an accurate return. Some tax software companies have different tiers of customer support, including in-person help or virtual assistance. Review customer support options, like live chat and call availability before narrowing down your choice. FAQs
Can I file my taxes for free? What's the catch?
There are two main ways to file your taxes for free. The first is through the
IRS File Free program , which includes private companies that provide their services for free in partnership with the IRS. To qualify, you need to earn less than $84,000 in adjusted gross income. The IRS also launched its
Direct File program
in 2024, but it doesn’t cover all tax situations.  The second is through the free programs of nonalliance members, like TurboTax and H&R Block. These services offer free products for simple filing situations, and as long as you don’t have complications like investment or rental property income, you can stick with the free products all the way through filing. Cash App Taxes and FreeTaxUSA also provide free federal filing, no matter your tax situation. We recommend you stay clear of attempts by some companies to upgrade you to a service you may not need, especially if you have a simple return or don’t need assistance to file your tax return.Is tax software really free?
Almost all of CNET’s best tax software selections for 2025 include free options for simple tax returns. However, some of those free options only include your federal tax return — you’ll occasionally need to pay extra to file state tax returns or for additional support. TurboTax ,
H&R Block ,
TaxSlayer
and
Cash App Taxes
all provide free tax-filing services that include one federal tax return and one state tax return.
FreeTaxUSA’s
basic plan is free for federal and $15 for unlimited state returns, whereas
TaxAct’s
free plan charges $40 per state tax return. Be careful to check for restrictions before you start the process of using free tax software at any of the providers. For example, TurboTax’s Basic plan only allows simple tax returns with 1040 forms — no unemployment income, stock sales or any itemized deductions like mortgage interest.Can I claim the Child Tax Credit with tax software?
Yes, if you’re eligible, you can use online tax software to claim the Child Tax Credit. Depending on your tax situation, you might be able to file for free and claim this credit. Read more: Find Out if You’re Eligible for the Child Tax CreditWhen is my tax return due in 2025?
Federal tax returns for 2024 are due for most taxpayers on April 15, 2025. Most state returns are also due on April 15, but some states have different deadlines. When a disaster or uncommon weather events affect a state, the IRS and states will often give residents of that state reasonable filing extensions without fees or penalties for submitting your return late. If you need more time to file, you can request an extension with most online tax software by April 15. If your extension is approved, you’ll have until Oct. 15, 2025, to file your 2024 taxes. Keep in mind, filing an extension does not extend a tax bill due. If you find the result of your tax return is a payment due, an extension will still accrue possible fees and interest. If you’re considering filing an extension because you can’t pay your full tax bill, consider setting up an
installment plan with the IRS
online or calling the IRS to ensure you’re aware of all of your options.What is a 'simple' tax return?
When you file only a single W-2 from an employer, it’s considered a simple tax return. With a simple return, you won’t be itemizing deductions, claiming investment income or rental property, reporting freelance income or claiming business expenses like a home office. Companies like Intuit and H&R Block explain the added complexity commensurate with their higher-tier products, so if you aren’t sure, double-check their lists before purchasing. You can also start filing with a free return in most cases and upgrade your service level if needed.When should I pay extra to get live assistance from online tax software?
The beauty of well-designed tax software is that most filers won’t need to pay extra for expert help. All of the answers you need should be only a click or two away. If you find yourself constantly wanting to speak with a human tax expert or if you know your tax situation is complicated, you may be better off selecting tax software with tax expert support or simply
hiring a CPA on your own.How much does it cost to hire a CPA? Is it worth it?
As good as many software programs are, a human expert is often the way to go for complex tax returns. Working with a CPA for your tax filing will cost $200 to $500, depending on the complexity of your return — how many schedules and extra forms need to be completed — the number of years you need to file and where you live, according to the 2020-21 Fees Practices Survey released by the National Society of Accountants. Each additional schedule, for things like rental income or investment gains, can cost around $100. If you have
self-employment income , itemized deductions or investments, the extra cost is likely to be worth it. It can also be easier to send off your forms to an expert, ask questions on more-complex areas of your return and know they’ll take care of everything. Remember that the extra amount you’re paying in fees ensures you are filing a complete and compliant return without the worry of overpaying your tax bill and under-calculating a potential refund, which makes the upfront cost a smart investment. How we rate tax software
CNET reviews tax software by comparing products across set criteria. We use the software to prepare personal tax returns, examine tax products’ terms and offers, communicate with software representatives to resolve questions about products, compare feature sets and analyze software for its effectiveness in common tax situations.We consider the features and functionality of the tax preparation software, the user experience, the software interface, website performance, quality of help and support, and the value based on price. We are also looking for and evaluating specific features, including file importing or photo capture of forms, number and type of available IRS forms and schedules, contextual help, professional tax assistance, maximum refund and accuracy guarantees, live support and security protections.The editorial content on this page is based solely on objective, independent assessments by our writers and is not influenced by advertising or partnerships. It has not been provided or commissioned by any third party. However, we may receive compensation when you click on links to products or services offered by our partners.
About the Author
Danni Santana Former Staff Editor Danni Santana Former Staff Editor
Danni Santana spent nine years as an editor and business journalist covering industries including sports, retail, restaurants, and personal finance.
He is a graduate of the Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism at CUNY. His biggest loves outside of the newsroom are running, cooking, playing video games and collecting sneakers.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.