Hollow Knight Silksong release time in your time zone
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Hollow Knight: Silksong
RIP Silksong memes, 2019–2025
What time does Hollow Knight: Silksong release in your time zone?
By
Ari Notis
Published Sep 2, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Credit: Image: Team Cherry
Jump Links
Hollow Knight: Silksong release time in your time zone
What to expect from Hollow Knight: Silksong
Six years and one legendary hype cycle later, it's finally time for Hollow Knight: Silksong, the follow-up to Team Cherry's beloved 2017 Metroidvania. Yes, it's hard to believe we'll soon be living in a post-Silksong meme world, but if that's the price of being able to finally play this thing, so be it. Here's when Hollow Knight: Silksong releases in your time zone, plus some extra info about what to expect.
Hollow Knight: Silksong release time in your time zone
Hollow Knight: Silksong will release at 10 a.m. EDT on Thursday, Sept. 4, developer Team Cherry said on Bluesky (alongside an announcement of the game's $20 price point). Here's when that is in your time zone:
7 a.m. PDT for the west coast of North America
10 a.m. EDT for the east coast of North America
11 a.m. BRT for Brazil
3 p.m. BST for the U.K.
4 p.m. CEST for western Europe
11 p.m. JST for Japan
12 a.m. on Sept. 5 for the east coast of Australia
What to expect from Hollow Knight: Silksong
Team Cherry didn't send out early review copies of Silksong, so early impressions of the game have been minimal, based largely on brief previews tied to events like Gamescom and PAX West. Footage and previews so far indicate a game that fundamentally looks similar to its predecessor, albeit with a few gameplay tweaks, including a faster pace and some improvements to movement. Bosses revealed so far look truly disgusting (complimentary). You also play as a new protagonist, the Hornet. For its part, Team Cherry told Bloomberg that the lengthy development cycle had nothing to do with internal delays — just that the studio was too caught up in adding new stuff, like multiple hub villages, to the game. Ultimately, the full breadth of Silksong won't be clear until players, press, and content creators can go hands-on with the game. Could be more of the same. Could be a transcendent step forward for the genre that once again sets the bar. Could be something in the middle. Whatever the outcome, we'll find out soon.
Guides
PlayStation
Xbox
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 8, 2025
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting a rare $20 card with epic new Marvel art
Sep 9, 2025
If Frozen was a psychedelic thriller, it’d look like this movie
Sep 8, 2025
Meet two of Starfinder: Afterlight’s companions in this exclusive reveal
Sep 9, 2025
2025 is the best year for 2D platformers since the SNES days
Most Popular
This anime fight is one of the best of all time, but not for the reason you might think
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle reveals why not every anime can become a movie
Alien: Earth just pulled off a surprising first for the franchise's iconic monster
My most-played Switch 2 game is this roguelike you've never heard of
The best horror movie sequel of the year is finally streaming on Netflix
Sonic the Hedgehog is so back, but for real this time
See More
Trending Now
The Dragon Prince fans are funding a spinoff series starring Liam O’Brien
3 Game Pass games we're playing this weekend (Sept. 19-21)
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.