Best Weighted Blankets for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our advice is expert-vetted and based on independent research, analysis and hands-on testing from our team of Certified Sleep Coaches. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessSleep Bed Accessories
Best Weighted Blankets for 2025
Whether you're feeling stressed or need a blanket that helps you sleep better, our picks of weighted blankets will ease you into a restful sleep.
Taylor Leamey Former Senior Writer Taylor Leamey wrote about all things wellness for CNET, specializing in mental health, sleep and nutrition coverage. She has invested hundreds of hours into studying and researching sleep and holds a Certified Sleep Science Coach certification from the Spencer Institute. Not to mention the years she spent studying mental health fundamentals while earning her bachelor's degrees in both Psychology and Sociology. She is also a Certified Stress Management Coach. Expertise Sleep, Mental Health, Nutrition and Supplements Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach, Certified Stress Management Coach
See full bio
Taylor Leamey
Medically Reviewed
Reviewed by: Troy Mensen, DO Medical Reviewer Dr. Troy Mensen is a family medicine doctor based in the Chicago area. He completed his undergraduate degree at the University of Northern Iowa and his doctorate at Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine. Expertise Family medicine Credentials American Board of Family Medicine, Family MedicineState of Illinois, Medical Examining Board License Education University of Northern Iowa, BADes Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine, DO See more
Feb. 4, 2025
9:17 a.m. PT 7 min read
Luna Luxe Weighted Blanket Best overall weighted blanket
$73 at Amazon
Gravity Cooling Weighted Blanket Best cooling weighted blanket
$163 at Amazon
Layla Weighted Blanket Best weighted blanket for couples
$119 at Layla
Baloo the Mini Weighted Blanket Best weighted blanket for kids
$156 at Baloo Living
Mosaic Weighted Blanket Best customizable weighted blanket
$172 at Mosaic
SensaCalm Weighted Blanket Best luxury weighted blanket
$239 at SensaCalm
Show more (1 item)
Table of Contents
Best Weighted Blankets for 2025
What is the best overall weighted blanket?
Best weighted blankets of 2025
How we tested the best weighted blankets
What to consider when shopping for a weighted blanket
What is a weighted blanket?
What are the benefits of a weighted blanket?
If you often feel anxious, regardless of whether it's related to sleep or not, why not try a weighted blanket? They're well-known for their ability to relieve stress and anxiety through deep pressure touch stimulation, which often feels like a warm hug. Better yet, the majority are machine washable, making them as easy to maintain as regular blankets.Weighted blankets come in various materials, typically with quilted squares for even weight distribution. Even outside of aesthetics, there is a lot of variety you can add to your weighted blanket. For example, there are breathable options -- great for hot sleepers -- and cozier blankets that still have the added weight to keep you snug as a bug. There are also weighted blankets with removable duvet covers. However, before you jump into our guide and pick out your favorite, you should know a few crucial things about weighted blankets. For one, not every heavy blanket will do and not every weighted blanket will suit you -- these blankets come in different weights for a good reason. A good rule of thumb is to choose a blanket that's roughly 10% of your body weight. You might not reap the benefits if you decide to go too light. Alternatively, if you go too heavy, you could hurt yourself. Your body may also grow used to a certain weight over time, so you may need to invest in a heavier blanket the longer you use the one you have.Over the years our CNET sleep experts have tested nearly every sleep product you can think of, from mattresses and duvet covers to sleep masks. Now they've tested weighed blankets and are confident they have a list that breaks down everything you need to know about them: from their feel, fill density and quality of each option.What is the best overall weighted blanket?There are a lot of weighted blankets out there, all of which vary by fill, price and feel. If you want some expert help, we found that the Luna weighted blanket is the best overall weighted blanket you can buy.The Luna is a weighted blanket that anyone can like. It's soft and breathable without feeling overwhelming, a common issue with weighted blankets. It's made from 300-thread-count cotton and is filled with micro-glass beads. It's also the most affordable weighted blanket on the list by far -- a welcome trait in a notoriously expensive category, thanks to the high cost of the filling. The Luna weighted blanket is the perfect balance between quality and affordability. Best weighted blankets of 2025
Amanda Capritto/CNET
Luna Luxe Weighted Blanket
Best overall weighted blanket
$73 at Amazon
Price: $Care instruction: Spot cleanMaterial: CottonWeight: 10, 15 poundsFilling: Microglass beads, polyester and microfiberReturn policy: 30 daysThe Luna Luxe is not only the best cotton weighted blanket but is our pick for the best overall weighted blanket because it's super soft and heavy without feeling overwhelming. It's designed with a patented layer construction that promotes breathability, and while it's not actively cooling, the design can help regulate your body temperature. This cotton weighted blanket is made of 300-thread-count and filled with polyester, microfiber and microglass beads. One of the most annoying things about some weighted blankets is that the beads inside shift around, clumping as you sleep. Thanks to its microfiber filling and quilted design, the Luna doesn't do that. Many of the best-weighted blankets are on the expensive side, but the Luna strikes a nice balance between quality and budget. Pros:Doesn't shift around when you sleepRegulates body temperatureOeko-Tex 100 certifiedHypoallergenicBudget-friendly optionCons:Not actively cooling
$73 at Amazon
Amanda Capritto/CNET
Gravity Cooling Weighted Blanket
Best cooling weighted blanket
$163 at Amazon
Price: $$$Care instructions: Machine-washable cover, insert hand-wash onlyMaterial: Polyester blendWeight: 15, 20, 35 poundsFilling: Glass beadsReturn policy: 30 daysThe key to deep-touch pressure stimulation is that the weighted blanket must cover as much of your body as possible. This can be a problem, especially for hot sleepers who struggle even with normal blankets.During testing, the Gravity weighted blanket emerged as the best cooling weighted blanket. The soft microfiber fleece feels similar to the Luna but with one key difference: the Gravity blanket is made with moisture-wicking fabric designed for hot sleepers who need extra breathability. Pros:CoolingMade with moisture-wicking fabricSoft microfiber feelCons:ExpensiveNot as warm as other optionsInsert not machine washable
$163 at Amazon
Amanda Capritto/CNET
Layla Weighted Blanket
Best weighted blanket for couples
$119 at Layla
Price: $$$Care instructions: Machine-washableMaterial: Side one: cotton; Side two: polyester and minkWeight: 15, 20, 25 poundsFilling: High-density microglass beadsReturn policy: 30 daysThe Layla weighted blanket is our choice for the best weighted blanket for couples, thanks to its two-sided design. One side features a soft, plush material that is snuggly and warm for those looking for a fuzzy weighted blanket. The other is a 100% cotton knit. Unlike some weighted blankets, it's available in a king size, which is perfect for sharing. It's also one of the best weighted blankets for people with pets because it's so easy to clean. Fur is easily brushed off without getting stuck in the fabric. The Layla is also snuggly warm, which is ideal if you get chilly easily, but not for warmer climates or hot sleepers. If you want to try the Layla weighted blanket and see if it works for you, there is a 30-night trial and a 100% money-back guarantee. Pros:Two-sided design: fuzzy or soft feelAffordable optionThree weight optionsMachine washableCons:Not for hot sleepers or people who live in hot climatesDoesn't have a weight option for petite peopleOnly one color option
$119 at Layla
Baloo
Baloo the Mini Weighted Blanket
Best weighted blanket for kids
$156 at Baloo Living
$156 at Amazon
Price: $$Care instructions: Machine-washableMaterial: Cotton Weight: 9 poundsFilling: Glass microbeadsReturn policy: 30 daysChildren shouldn't use just any weighted blanket. Older children should use weighted blankets that are at most 10% of their body weight and younger children should steer clear entirely: Weighted blankets are not safe for children under 4. Kids' weighted blankets are designed specifically for the weight and size that kids can handle. The Mini from Baloo is the best weighted blanket for kids with its soft, quilt-like design. It's made from natural cotton for breathability and has a glass microbead filling. The Baloo is only available at 9 pounds, making it a good choice for kids over 90 pounds. This blanket is machine-washable, but it dries quickly in the dryer, so if you leave it in too long, you may damage it. Pros:Machine washableSoft cotton coverCons:Not for kids under 4
$156 at Baloo Living
$156 at Amazon
Amanda Capritto/CNET
Mosaic Weighted Blanket
Best customizable weighted blanket
$172 at Mosaic
Price: $$Care instructions: Machine-washableMaterial: CottonWeight: 5, 8 and 10 poundsFilling: BPA-free, hypoallergenic, FDA-compliant plastic pelletsReturn policy: 14 daysMosaic weighted blankets, made by a family-owned and -operated company, are the best customizable weighted blankets you can get. They come in three weights, multiple fabrics and various patterns. If you'd value the chance to create your ultimate weighted-blanket experience, then you'll like the Mosaic.If you don't want to spend time on customization, there are better options. We found that the Mosaic's weighted beads shift when you move, which can result in the weight pooling in one area. Pros:CustomizableMultiple weight optionsMachine washableCons:Not the best choice if you don't care about customizationBeads shift around in the blanket
$172 at Mosaic
Amanda Capritto/CNET
SensaCalm Weighted Blanket
Best luxury weighted blanket
$239 at SensaCalm
Price: $$$Care instructions: Machine-washableMaterial: CottonWeight: 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, 40 poundsFilling: Hypoallergenic, nontoxic glass beads and poly-filReturn policy: 30 daysWarranty: One yearYou want your weighted blanket to feel good, but it should look good too. The SensaCalm weighted blanket is the best-looking weighted blanket. It has a quilted pocket design and an almost crushed velvet look and feel. The other weighted blankets we tested look great, but SensaCalm is a step above. This looks like it could be displayed on your bed or couch all year.The all-weather version of this weighted blanket features two sides: warm fleece and cool cotton, making it a great year-round option. It's one of the warmest weighted blankets for cool weather. Unfortunately, this is one of the most expensive weighted blankets on the list. The high-quality materials and luxury look will cost you around $239. Pros:Machine washableSoft, velvet feelFour weight optionsTwo-sided designCons:Expensive
$239 at SensaCalm
How we tested the best weighted blanketsOur sleep experts carefully curated this list based on first-hand testing. We tested the weighted blankets exactly as you would expect: we snuggled with them, noting how they helped us sleep and relax. Each weighted blanket was evaluated on its performance, cost and materials. The fill, weight and cleaning instructions were also considered.  What to consider when shopping for a weighted blanket If you're looking to improve your sleep or ease anxiety, weighted blankets can help. So how do you choose the right one? There are a lot of weighted blankets on the market, so sorting through the brands can be tough. Keep these things in mind when shopping:Fill and materialThe magic of weighted blankets comes from the fill. Common fill materials include glass beads, plastic pellets and polyester microfill. This comes down to preference. Plastic beads are larger, making the blanket a little bulkier, while glass beads usually bump up the price. Also, consider what material you want on the outside of the blanket. For instance, cotton can feel cooler than polyester.WeightIf you don't choose carefully, weighted blankets can feel too heavy. Getting a weight appropriate for your needs and body type is important. Your weighted blanket should be about 10% of your body weight for optimal comfort. That means if you weigh from 160 to 190 pounds, you want a 15- or 20-pound weighted blanket. Typically, 35 pounds is too heavy for most people. PriceThere's a wide price range for the best weighted blankets. They can be as affordable as $35 or as expensive as $250 or more. Many cheaper options are just as soft as the expensive ones, while some at higher prices have special cooling technology. No matter your preferences, there is a weighted blanket at every price point.What is a weighted blanket?Weighted blankets use deep-touch pressure stimulation to calm the nervous system. When we experience stress or anxiety, our nervous system kicks into high gear. Our hearts start to race, our muscles contract and our bodies are flooded with cortisol and adrenaline.  Studies have shown that deep-pressure stimulation can reduce cortisol levels in the body while increasing serotonin and dopamine levels. Then the body relaxes, and our parasympathetic nervous system takes over. Weighted blankets are essentially big hugs that promote relaxation and reduce anxiety.  What are the benefits of a weighted blanket? Weighted blankets can help us sleep better at night, but that's not the only upside. Benefits of weighted blankets include: Creating a sense of calm by reducing cortisol levels in the bodyReducing symptoms of anxietyIncreasing serotonin and oxytocin levelsImproving your quality of sleep
Best weighted blanket FAQs
Is it safe for kids to use weighted blankets?
You should never use a weighted blanket on infants and small children (age 4 and under) as it increases suffocation risks. Weighted blankets are not safe at this age. Weighted blankets designed for older children are smaller in weight and size compared with the blankets for adults. Weighted blankets should only be 10% of a person's total weight. This means most adult weighted blankets aren't suitable for older children; they will be too heavy. Choose one specifically designed for children to ensure that it's correctly proportioned. Here are the key things to consider when letting older children use weighted blankets:Only purchase weighted blankets that are designed for children. The blanket should only be about 10% of your child's weight. Do not round up. Start with supervised use to ensure your child can move around and lift the blanket without assistance. Remember, weighted blankets are tested for adults. Speak to your child's doctor to see whether a weighted blanket is appropriate for them. There may be other things you can do to help your child sleep.
Do weighted blankets really work?
Weighted blankets aren't a magic cure-all for anxiety and interrupted sleep, but they can help both things. They use deep-pressure stimulation to calm the nervous system and promote relaxation, similar to how swaddling blankets do for babies.More research is needed to fully investigate how weighted blankets work. Various studies show they do help trigger the parasympathetic nervous system, which relaxes the body.
How do I wash a weighted blanket?
Care instructions vary for weighted blankets. Some of them are easier to wash than others. A lot of the best weighted blankets are machine-washable in some way. Some have a removable cover, while others are fully machine-washable on cold without a dryer cycle. Others are spot-clean only. Always read the label on your blanket for specific care instructions.Read more: How to Wash a Weighted Blanket in 3 Easy Steps
How heavy should a weighted blanket be?
Weighted blankets are available in different sizes and weights, but you should be strategic in your choice. The general rule: Choose a weight close to 10% of your body weight. Choose less if that's your preference, but refrain from choosing more. For reference, if you weigh 150 pounds, you're suited for a 15-pound weighted blanket or less. If you weigh 200 pounds, opt for a 20-pound blanket or less.
Do the best weighted blankets make you hot?
Weighted blankets can feel hot for some sleepers. Blanket manufacturers combat this by using certain knit materials or special cooling technology. If you're a particularly hot sleeper, stick to a blanket that focuses on cooling such as the Gravity Cooling weighted blanket.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.