Best October Prime Day smartwatch and fitness tracker deals | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Watches
Best October Prime Day smartwatch and fitness tracker deals
I've rounded up the smartwatch and health tracker deals I'd want to shop ahead of October Prime Day.
Written by
Nina Raemont, Editor, Wearables & Health TechEditor, Wearables & Health Tech
Sept. 19, 2025 at 9:36 a.m. PT
Google Pixel Watch 3 for $250 | Save $60
Google Pixel Watch 3 for $250
Save $60
View now View at Amazon Fitbit Inspire 3 for $80 | Save $20
Fitbit Inspire 3 for $80
Save $20
View now View at Amazon Garmin Vivoactive for $239 | Save $60
Garmin Vivoactive for $239
Save $60
View now View at Amazon Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 for $200 | Save $50
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 for $200
Save $50
View now View at Amazon Apple Watch Series 10 42mm for $349 | Save $50
Apple Watch Series 10 42mm for $349
Save $50
View now View at Amazon
Apple Watch SE for $169 | Save $70
Apple Watch SE for $169
Save $70
View now View at Amazon Garmin Forerunner 55 | Save $31
Garmin Forerunner 55
Save $31
View now View at Walmart
Show more (2 items)
Prime Day is almost here -- again. Amazon's annual sale is now semi-annual, with the next one taking place Oct. 7-8. This one is called Prime Big Deal Days, and it's two days long. We can expect that Amazon will cut prices on its company-owned brands, like Kindle, Ring, and Alexa devices, during this deals event. But more retailers, including Apple, Samsung, Oura, Google, and Garmin, slash prices on their health trackers to participate. So, what does this mean for you? October Prime Day could be a great time to buy a wishlist item you've been putting off, or get your holiday shopping done early. Also: The best smartwatches we've testedI'm rounding up some of the more attractive smartwatch and fitness tracker deals on sale ahead of and during the October Prime Day event. I'm only including products I have tested myself or a ZDNET colleague has tested and recommended. While the product offerings below could compel you to buy a smartwatch now, I'd advise waiting until two weeks from now, when the prices could be further cut. Best early Prime Day smartwatch and fitness tracker deals
Google Pixel Watch 3 for $250 Save $60
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNET
Current price: $250 Original price: $310Google just unveiled its fourth-generation Pixel Watch, which comes with significant upgrades to the smartwatch. Luckily, some of the announced upgrades, like a revamped Fitbit Premium app that's coming to all Google-owned devices, will hit the Pixel Watch 3. If you're in the Android ecosystem and looking for a high quality and nearly-new watch, this could be the deal for you.
Show more
View now at AmazonView now at Best Buy
Fitbit Inspire 3 for $80 Save $20
Matthew Miller/ZDNet
Current price: $80 Original price: $100Want a discreet, thin health tracker that nails the basics? The Fitbit Inspire 3 is a great health tracker for beginners looking to dip their toes into step-tracking and not break the bank while doing so. It's under $100 right now.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Garmin Vivoactive for $239 Save $60
Current price: $239Original price: $300With an 11-day battery life, an AMOLED display, and features that track your exercise gains and keep you homed in on recovery, the Vivoactive smartwatch is the ideal marathon-training companion.
Show more
View now at AmazonView now at Best BuyView now at Crutchfield
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 for $200 Save $50
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $200Original price: $250Samsung's new Galaxy Watch 8 (at full price) implies the existence of a just-as-capable Galaxy Watch 7 that's $50 off.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Apple Watch Series 10 42mm for $349 Save $50
Nina Raemont/ZDNET
Current price: $349Original price: $399It's a great time to buy a Series 10. That's because many of the updates coming to newer Apple Watch models, including the Series 11, Ultra 3, and SE 3 Apple debuted last week, also arrive through software updates available on Series 9 and later. This includes Sleep Scores and Hypertension Detection. Between Series 9 and Series 10, I'd recommend the 10 thanks to its slimmer build that's more comfortable for exercise and sleep. You'll get 18 hours of battery life and fast-charging with the Series 10 watch. But if you want to score even steeper deals on the device, you might want to wait a few more weeks until October Prime Day, when the watch's price could go lower.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Apple Watch SE for $169 Save $70
Jason Hiner/ZDNET
Current price: $179Original price: $249The Apple Watch SE is a great smartwatch for first-time buyers and for kids. If you're in the Apple ecosystem and have wanted to try out a smartwatch but don't necessarily want to shell out several hundred dollars, the SE is a great option. While it lacks some of the bells and whistles of the Series 10 and Ultra models, it still includes all of the essentials, like the ability to make calls, send texts, and use Siri, as well as health features like heart rate monitoring and Fall and Crash Detection.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Garmin Forerunner 55 Save $31
Garmin
Current price: $169Original price: $199In addition to integrated GPS, the Forerunner 55 has integrated wrist-based heart rate monitoring, all-day activity tracking, sleep tracking, daily suggested workouts, Garmin Coach training plans, and phone-connected safety features.Also: The best Garmin watches you can buyIt also offers PacePro guidance, finish time estimator, cadence alerts, and recovery time, so you can use the watch to help keep you informed about your performance, aid in planning for improvement.
Show more
View now at Walmart
When is October Prime Day 2025? Prime Big Deals Day takes place from October 7 through October 8 this year. During the sale, the retailer cuts prices on thousands of products (and many products from brands it owns, like Kindle, Alexa, Ring, and more). Are smartwatches really cheaper on Prime Day? You might not see the same substantial deals you'll see on Amazon-owned devices, like Kindle or Alexa devices, on smartwatches. Still, retailers like Apple, Samsung, and Google, just debuted their new lineup of products, and as demand rises for the newer generations of smartwatches, the demand for older generations declines. This is great for budget-conscious consumers not interested in the newest and shiniest devices. How did we choose these Prime Day deals?ZDNET only writes about deals we want to buy -- devices and products we desire, need, or would recommend. Our experts looked for deals that were at least 20% off (or are hardly ever on sale), using established price comparison tools and trackers to determine whether the deal is actually on sale and how frequently it drops. We also looked over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the deals we're recommending. Our recommendations may also be based on our own testing -- in addition to extensive research and comparison shopping. The goal is to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best October Prime Day deals under $100: My favorite early sales
Best Amazon Prime Day Apple deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts in October
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use