These XR glasses with a 200-inch screen effectively replaced my triple monitor setup | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
AR + VR
These XR glasses with a 200-inch screen effectively replaced my triple monitor setup
The Xreal One Pro AR glasses offer a premium viewing experience that seamlessly blends work and entertainment.
Written by
Matthew Miller, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 12:22 p.m. PT
ZDNET's key takeaways The Xreal One Pro is available for $649, and the Xreal Eye accessory is priced at $99. Thanks to the X1 chip, no special software is required for advanced functionality, the FOV is the best available, the glasses are comfortable, and the display is bright and clear. The glasses are rather expensive, and two sizes for your eye width make them fit best for individuals. $649 at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.For the past several months, I have been wearing the Xreal One Pro on the airplane, in an automobile, on the couch, and in my home office for media, gaming, and work. Powered by Xreal's X1 spatial computing chip for augmented reality applications, it's safe to say that the Xreal glasses have spoiled me.Also: I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they got me excited for the post-smartphone eraWhile XR glasses are fantastic for watching movies on the airplane and playing Nintendo Switch games on a virtual big screen, I cannot begin to express the utility I have experienced using the Xreal One Pro for getting work done on my Surface Pro and MacBook Pro computers in ultra-wide mode.Using these glasses is better than using the three monitors I connect to in my office, and I can get that multitasking experience through a simple USB-C cable and the glasses.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Xreal One Pro XR glasses The Xreal One Pro provides the best ultra-wide screen XR experience on the market.
details
View at Amazon The Xreal One Pro delivers an impressive visual experience, thanks to its new flat prism optics. While the design adds some bulk and weight, it enables a 57-degree field of view -- currently the widest available in any consumer AR device. For frequent flyers or daily commuters like myself, XR glasses like these offer one of the most immersive ways to watch content or play mobile games on the go.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETThe audio through the glasses was developed in partnership with Bose, which I can attest provides an enjoyable audio experience even though the speakers aren't directly in your ears like traditional earbuds and headphones. Also: I tried smart glasses with a built-in display, and they beat my Meta Ray-Bans in key waysI prefer this setup for commuting by train -- nearby passengers aren't disturbed by the audio. On a plane, though, noise-canceling headphones are essential to block out ambient noise.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETI've praised the SpaceWalker app for enhancing productivity when using Viture XR glasses with a Windows or macOS computer. In contrast, Xreal's X1 chip eliminates the need for additional software, offering full functionality out of the box. The result is a more seamless, accessible XR experience that raises the bar for everyday usability.The Xreal One Pro offers built-in ultra-wide screen functionality, and when paired with the Xreal Eye accessory, it adds 6DoF support -- letting you anchor your virtual workspace much like you can with the Apple Vision Pro or Meta Quest 3. When ultra-wide mode is enabled, all previously arranged apps, tabs, and windows reappear exactly where you left them, making for a remarkably fluid multitasking experience.Also: I biked with the Meta Oakley Vanguard, and they're easily the best smart glasses for athletesFor frequent travelers who rely on a single laptop screen, XR glasses like these offer a compelling productivity boost -- at a fraction of the cost of multiple physical monitors. From what I've seen, with the X1 chip and these new features, Xreal sets a new benchmark for portable extended reality.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETControlling XR glasses can often feel unintuitive, with some models requiring adjustments on the connected device. The Xreal One Pro simplifies this: a press of the front right button toggles between anchor and follow modes -- useful for stabilizing the display and reducing motion blur as you move your head.Double-pressing the same button brings up on-screen menus, which you can navigate using the volume buttons. From there, adjusting screen size and distance is quick and straightforward, offering a highly customizable and immersive visual experience.Also: Should you buy the new Meta Ray-Bans? I tested every model, and here's how to decideThe top button on the right side lets you cycle through lens transparency modes -- clear, shaded, and theater -- so you can seamlessly interact with your surroundings or switch to a 222-inch virtual display. When paired with the $99 Xreal Eye accessory, pressing and holding this button also allows you to capture photos and videos hands-free.One reason I like the Viture Pro XR glasses is the diopter adjustment dials, but after reading more about the comparison between diopter adjustment and lens inserts, it is time for me to pick up lens inserts for those limited times I take out my contacts. The one limitation with lens inserts is that they are specific to each person, so sharing the glasses with others isn't as easy. Then again, once you have lens inserts, you no longer need to spin the dial to try to find an acceptable level.
Matthew MillerThe optional Xreal Eye accessory provides the 6DoF functionality with the camera module easily fitting above the nose pads. The Eye can be used to capture photos and videos, but I haven't yet figured out a practical use case for this capability. The Eye can also be used to capture AR photos and videos when you connect the Xreal One Pro to an Xreal Beam Pro device. Xreal also stated that it will continue to work on functions for the Eye, to include gesture support.Best vr headset deals of the week
Meta Quest 3S 128GB VR Headset:  $299 (save $1)
Meta Quest 3S 256GB With Batman: Arkham Shadow and 3-Month Meta Quest Plus:  $400 (save $0)
Meta Quest 3 512GB With Batman: Arkham Shadow and 3-Month Meta Quest Plus:  $499 (save $1)
Meta Quest 3S 128GB VR Headset:  $269 (save $31) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
ZDNET's buying adviceThe Xreal One Pro has three sizes of nose pads, and I wore them for eight hours one day with zero discomfort. The 87-gram weight and three-point adjustable temple angles also help ensure a perfect fit for all users. If you are looking for the best XR glasses available and want to enjoy an extreme level of productivity and media enjoyment on the go, then you can't beat the Xreal One Pro.How it comparesXreal One ProXreal OneDisplaySony 0.55" Micro-OLEDSony 0.68" Micro-OLEDFOV57 degrees50 degreesChipsetXreal X1 ChipXreal X1 Chip6DOF6 DoF support with eye trackern/aOptical designOptic Engine 4.0Optic Engine 3.0Brightness700 nits600 nitsPrice$649$499Update log:September 25, 2025: After several months of testing, this review was updated and thoroughly fact-checked to reflect its market positioning. The Xreal glasses have also received a notable discount at various retailers.Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses, and they got me excited for the post-smartphone era
I biked with the Meta Oakley Vanguard, and they're easily the best smart glasses for athletes
Meta wears Prada? Why its next-gen AR glasses might out-style the Ray-Bans
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use