Best Massage Guns for 2025: Personal Trainer Tested - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessFitness Fitness Tech
Best Massage Guns for 2025, Approved by a Former Personal Trainer
Massage guns can give you the ultimate sore muscle relief.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Written by
Medically Reviewed
Article updated on August 28, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Reviewed by: Valerie Cholet
Dr. Valerie Cholet is a Professor of Kinesiology. She earned her doctorate at Penn State University and has taught in higher education for over 20 years. Her areas of specialization include Exercise Physiology, Exercise Prescription, Health and Physical Education, Philosophy of Women in Sport, and Embodied Philosophy. Expertise Exercise physiology | Exercise prescription | Health and physical education | Philosophy of women in sport | Embodied philosophy
Education Penn State University, DEd in Adult Education and Teaching -- Arcadia University, MS in Elementary Education -- Penn State University, BS in Kinesiology and Exercise Science See more
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Factors to consider when shopping for a massage gun
Price
Massage guns can cost about $100 or up to $600. Budget for the type you want and for your needs.
What type of massage gun
There are heavy-duty massage guns that are top-of-the-line and others that are less intense. Decide if your lifestyle requires a massage gun with all the bells and whistles or if you're OK with a basic style.
Vibration vs percussive massage therapy
Massage guns offer either vibration or percussive therapy. Vibration therapy sends vibrations and constantly touches the surface of the skin, whereas percussive therapy uses pressure to get deeper into the muscle and glides on and off of the skin.
Battery life
Battery life can vary depending on the massage gun, so it's something to consider if you're not looking to charge it all the time.
Portability
Some massage guns are designed for on-the-go use. Decide whether you need one that's easy to carry during your travels or if you prefer to keep it at home.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If you're prone to sore muscles, a massage gun can help speed up muscle recovery, improve your athletic performance and more. If you’ve never used one, sports chiropractor Grant Radermacher recommends the following: "Start with a small region of soft tissue and work with it for a maximum of 2 minutes.” As CNET’s fitness expert, my role is to offer honest, informative and helpful fitness advice and content in a world of misinformation. I tested approximately 20 top-rated massage gun brands, including Therabody and Hypervolt. I considered cost, design, portability, size and intensity during testing. Find the perfect one to soothe your achy muscles with this list of the best massage guns. Our Picks
Best massage gun overall
Theragun Elite
Jump to details
$400 at Target
Jump to details
Massage gun with best battery life Ekrin Athletics B37S
Jump to details
$200 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best mini massage gun for travel Ekrin Athletics Bantam
Jump to details
$112 at Ekrin
Jump to details
Best mini massage gun with the most power Theragun Mini (2nd gen)
Jump to details
$200 at Therabody
Jump to details
Best massage gun for serious athletes Theragun Pro (5th gen)
Jump to details
$600 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best massage gun for beginners Lifepro Sonic Handheld Percussion Massage Gun
Jump to details
$60 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Theragun-dupe massage gun Renpho R4 Pro Massage Gun
Jump to details
$70 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 2 more
FITNESS TRACKER DEALS OF THE WEEK
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 42mm, Black, S/M 130-180mm, Sports Band):  $299 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Wi-Fi, 40mm, S/M Green):  $199 (save $101)
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $72 (save $39)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $190 (save $110)
Fitbit Charge 6 Fitness Tracker (Black):  $110 (save $50) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Massage Guns for 2025, Approved by a Former Personal Trainer
Which is the best massage gun overall?
Best massage guns of 2025
Best massage guns compared
How we test massage guns
Other massage guns we tested
Factors to consider when buying a massage gun
Massage gun tips
How to use a massage gun
Best massage guns FAQ
Can you use a massage gun while pregnant?
What features make for a good massage gun?
Which is the best massage gun overall?
TheraGun/CNETMy favorite massage gun overall was the Theragun Elite. As a fitness expert, I’m familiar with the functions of massage guns and have tested them for many years. I found the Theragun Elite to be easy enough to use for beginners and experienced fitness enthusiasts. The screen on the handle is simple to follow, so the massage gun speed and battery life are clear. The amplitude -- the ability to get deep into your muscles -- is on the higher side for a massage gun. Therabody is a well-respected brand with a wide range of recovery products, so you know you're getting a top-notch massage gun. If you're not a fan of the loud percussion noise that's normally associated with massage guns, you may prefer one of the quieter options on this list, such as the Ekrin Athletics Bantam.Best massage guns of 2025
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best massage gun overall
Theragun Elite
Pros
Easy to use for experienced and inexperienced users
It has carrying case for safe storage
OLED screen makes it easy to read settings
Can be controlled through Therabody app
Cons
Expensive at $400
120-minute battery life could be longer
On the louder side at 65-68 decibels
Why we like it: I liked the Theragun Elite the most because it’s a powerful, easy-to-use massage gun with a comfortable handle. It provides 40 pounds of pressure and has five built-in speeds, ranging from 1,750 to 2,400 percussions per minute. It also has an amplitude of 16 millimeters, which gets deeper into the muscles. The Elite has five attachments: a dampener, standard ball, wedge, thumb and cone. It also lets you access preset guided routines from the Therabody app (available for iPhone and Android) in case you need help getting started with your massage gun. Once turned on, I liked that the Elite has a screen that indicates its current speed setting and remaining battery. It's a powerful massager, falling between the Theragun Pro Gen 5 and the Theragun Prime. Who it’s best for: The Elite is more user-friendly than some of the other massage guns, thanks to the simplicity of its features, while having more power than the Prime. Both beginners and athletes will get good use from the Elite to break down knots and eliminate sore muscles. Physical therapists who use massage guns in their practice may find this massage gun to be a good option to have on hand for their patients.Who shouldn’t buy it: My one gripe with the Elite is that it's supposed to be one of Theragun's quieter massage gun models, but I still thought it was on the louder side, especially as you amp up the power. This might deter you from this model if you want a massage gun that is quieter. It also has a shorter battery life (120 minutes) than the other guns on this list and isn’t ideal to carry with you when you’re traveling since it isn’t compact. If you want to be able to carry your massage gun everywhere, then I would recommend one that is smaller, like the Theragun Mini or Ekrin Athletics Bantam.Editors' note: The Theragun Elite has since been discontinued, and this page will be updated as we re-test massage guns.  ... Show more
Get it now
$400 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Weight
2.2 poundsAmplitude
16 mmSpeed settings
5 speedsAttachments
Five (dampener, standard ball, wedge, thumb and cone)Battery life
120 minutesNoise
65-68 decibelsCustomization
YesHSA/FSA Eligible
YesWarranty
1 yearTrial period
30 daysReturn window
30 days
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Massage gun with best battery life
Ekrin Athletics B37S
Pros
Long battery life of 8 hours
Quieter than most massage guns at 35-55 decibels
The handle is angled for extra comfort
Has a carrying case
Cons
Expensive
May be a bit big for travel
Why we like it: I liked the Ekrin Athletics B37S Percussion Massager because of its eight-hour battery life. It has the longest battery life of all the massage guns on this list. The B37S has five adjustable speeds ranging from 1,400 to 3,200 percussions per minute. This includes up to 56 pounds of deep percussive force, which tackles those hard-to-reach knots. It also has four head attachments to choose from. This massage gun is sturdy and less bulky than other massage guns, and it has various features. The power button, found at the top of the handle, controls the speed and is easy to maneuver. Even at the lowest speed setting, the B37S felt powerful.Who it’s best for: This massage gun is best for people who don't want to recharge their device regularly. The B37S is on par with elite massage guns like Theragun and Hypervolt, but it beats both brands when it comes to battery life. The handle is angled and long enough that someone with bigger hands can comfortably hold it in their hand. It also comes with a sleek case for easy storageWho shouldn’t buy it: If you want a compact massage gun, the B37S is not the best choice. Even with a carrying case, this massage gun still takes up enough room that you’re better off with a smaller alternative.   ... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Weight
2.2 poundsAmplitude
12 mmSpeed settings
5 speedsAttachments
Four (flat, bullet, round, fork)Battery life
Eight hoursNoise
35-55 decibelsCustomization
NoHSA/FSA eligible
YesWarranty
LifetimeTrial period
30 daysReturn window
30 days
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best mini massage gun for travel
Ekrin Athletics Bantam
Pros
Long battery life of 6 hours
Has a travel case
Powerful and lightweight at 1.1 pounds
Cons
Power and speed are controlled by the same button
What we like about it: I liked the Ekrin Athletics Bantam as a mini massage gun option. It's sleek, slim, lightweight, compact (the size of an iPhone) and comfortable to hold. It also has a six-hour battery life, which is long for most massage guns, let alone a mini. The Bantam comes with a travel case and four head attachments. You have more options than with its competitor, the Theragun Mini second generation, which only has three. The Bantam has three speeds ranging from 2,000 to 3,200 percussions per minute and provides 10 mm of amplitude and up to 35 pounds of pressure.Who it’s best for: This massage gun is best for someone looking for a mini massage gun that can be carried in a gym bag or purse. It can also be a good option for someone who doesn't want to fully commit to a full-size massage gun but still wants a solid option that provides plenty of muscle relief. Who shouldn’t get it: If you want a full-size massage gun, you’re better off with one of the larger massage guns on the list. If you’re picky about the style of the handle of the massage gun and prefer something that sits more snugly in the hand, then the Theragun Mini 2nd generation is a better fit because it has an ergonomic handle.   ... Show more
Get it now
$112 at Ekrin
Specs & Configurations
Weight
1.1 pounds Amplitude
10 mmSpeed settings
3 speedsAttachments
4 attachments (flat, bullet, fork, round)Battery life
6 hoursNoise
N/ACustomization
NoHSA/FSA eligible
YesWarranty
LifetimeTrial Period
30 daysReturn Policy
30 days
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best mini massage gun with the most power
Theragun Mini (2nd gen)
Pros
Smaller and lighter at 0.45 kg
Powerful for a small massage gun with 12 mm of amplitude
Can be used for travel or on the go
Cons
Battery life is still hard to determine
Could use a better travel case
What we like about it: The second-gen Theragun Mini packs a powerful punch. It's the improved Mini in the Theragun collection and it's a solid upgrade from the original. The second-gen Theragun Mini is quieter than the original Mini, 20% smaller and 30% lighter. This time around you get three attachments with your Mini instead of just the one that the original had. This massage gun has three speeds ranging from 1,750 to 2,400 percussions per minute. It has 12 mm of amplitude, which is deep for a mini massage gun. By comparison, the Bantam massage gun only has 10 mm of amplitude. The Theragun Mini second generation maintains the same solid ergonomic handle that the originaMini has to make up for its compact shape. The Mini's power button also controls the speed and uses lights to indicate the speed level. Another plus is that it's Bluetooth-enabled, so you can connect it to the Therabody app.Who it’s best for: The Theragun Mini is ideal if you want a mini massage gun that can easily fit into a gym bag or carry-on. The massage gun also comes with a soft case to protect it while you’re on-the-go. Who shouldn’t get it: If you want a mini massage gun with more attachments, then opt for the Ekrin Bantam instead of the Theragun Mini.    ... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Therabody
Specs & Configurations
Weight
0.45 kgAmplitude
12mmSpeed settings
3 speeds Attachments
3 attachments (dampener, standard ball, thumb)Battery life
120 minutesNoise
60.5 decibelsHSA/FSA
YesCustomization
1-year limited warrantyWarranty
1-yearTrial period
30 daysReturn window
30 days
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best massage gun for serious athletes
Theragun Pro (5th gen)
Pros
Most powerful massage gun on list
20% quieter than previous model
Lighter than older version
Has customizable and preset programs
Cons
Expensive
May be intimidating for average person
Upgrades are not drastic compared to last version
The fifth generation of the Theragun Pro has an upgraded design compared to the previous model. It's 20% quieter, smaller and slightly lighter than the original (2.76 pounds vs. 2.91 pounds). Therabody kept the important features of its predecessor: an adjustable head angle, five speeds, a 150-minute battery life, 16 mm of amplitude and 60 pounds of pressure. New upgrades include customizable speed ranges and visually guided built-in routines through the OLED screen: Sleep, Warm Up, Recovery and Theragun Break. Other additions include a new attachment, the Micropoint, intended to increase stimulation. It also has a Bluetooth connection, so it's easy to manage from the Therabody app.Once turned on, it's noticeable that it's significantly quieter than the previous version. It's still powerful even at the lowest speed. Therabody kept the rotating arm, which makes it easy to target hard-to-reach areas.The downside to the newest Pro is that it's still the most expensive massage gun on this list. This may not be the best option for everyone since you can get a similar experience with a less expensive device. Athletes and others who are physically active all day would benefit the most from this full-featured massage gun.  ... Show more
Get it now
$600 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Weight
2.2 poundsAmplitude
16 mmSpeed Settings
5 speedsAttachments
Six (dampener, standard ball, thumb, micro-point, wedge)Battery Life
150 minutesNoise
20% less than previous modelCustomization
YesHSA/FSA eligible
YesWarranty
1-yearTrial period
30 daysReturn window
30 days
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/ CNET
Best massage gun for beginners
Lifepro Sonic Handheld Percussion Massage Gun
Pros
Quiet motor for a standard-size massage gun
LED display makes for easy-to-read settings
8 massage head options
Inexpensive at $60
Has a carrying case
Cons
It has to be set at the last two settings to really feel power
Plastic design makes it seem less durable
What we like about it: For a heavy-duty massage gun, the Lifepro's Sonic Handheld Percussion Massage Gun is on the quieter side. The battery lasts three to six hours and consists of five speeds, ranging from 1,200 to 2,800 percussions per minute. The Sonic also has the most massage head attachments (eight) of all the massage guns on this list. It’s affordable at only $60 if you're looking to spend under $100 on a massage gun.Who it’s best for: This massage gun is good for beginners because it is less intimidating than other heavy-duty massage guns. The battery is long-lasting, and it offers plenty of amplitude to get deep into sore muscles. The LED panel on the Sonic shows all the speeds and remaining battery life listed in one place, so it's easy to read. If you're new to percussive therapy, this is a good option that gives you the full experience without breaking the bank.Who shouldn’t get it: This massage gun is on the bigger side, so it's not suitable for traveling. If you want a more portable massage gun, consider one of the mini options instead. An issue I had with the Sonic was that I had to set it at the highest setting to feel the power of the massage gun. This is less common with heavy-duty massage guns, like the Theragun, because you can still feel the intensity at the lowest setting. Another aspect that could be improved on the Sonic is the design of the body of the gun. It's made up of plastic, which makes it seem less durable.   ... Show more
Get it now
$60 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Weight
3.9 pounds Amplitude
12 mmSpeed settings
5 speedsAttachments
Eight (round, shovel, bullet, flat, air, wishbone, spinal, textured)Battery life
3-6 hoursNoise
N/ACustomization
NoHSA/FSA eligible
YesWarranty
LifetimeTrial period
30 daysReturn window
30 days
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best Theragun-dupe massage gun
Renpho R4 Pro Massage Gun
Pros
Affordable at $70
Quiet for a big massage gun at 45 decibels
Good alternative to Theragun Pro 5th gen
You can change the massage head angle to hit hard-to-reach areas
Decent 4-hour battery life
Cons
Not as stylish as the high-end massage guns
Plastic design makes it seem cheap
What we like about it: The Renpho R4 Pro Massage Gun may not look as sophisticated as the other massage guns on this list, but it is still effective. The R4 Pro has a rotating head that can be adjusted to five positions by pressing a large button on the side of the massage head. This feature reminded me of the Theragun Pro, which functions similarly. Being able to change the angle of the massage gun is key because you can target hard-to-reach areas. It has 10 mm of amplitude, so it doesn't penetrate as deeply as the Theragun Pro, but it still gets the job done. The R4 Pro has four speeds and comes with six attachments: L ball head, M ball head, fork, bullet, flat and air-cushioned head. Who it’s best for: If you want a massage gun that isn't expensive but has the features of a high-end one (minus the app function), the Renpho R4 Pro Massage Gun is a solid pick. After all, $70 is reasonable compared to spending hundreds of dollars on a massage gun with similar features. The massage gun has an easy-to-read panel that indicates the current speeds and battery level. The battery life on this massage gun is decent, lasting up to four hours. Who shouldn’t get it: If you want a heavy-duty massage gun that’s well-made, then this one may fall short. The plastic material makes it seem cheaper compared to a Theragun or even an Ekrin option. It’s also bulkier compared to other massage guns because of the curved arm. If you’d like the option to carry the massage gun in a gym bag or carry-on, it’s too big to be considered portable, even with the carrying case.  ... Show more
Get it now
$70 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Weight
2.2 poundsAmplitude
10 mmSpeed settings
4 speedsAttachments
six (flat, bullet, round, fork,etc.)Battery life
2 hoursNoise
45 decibelsCustomization
NoHSA/FSA eligible
YesWarranty
1-year limited warrantyTrial period
1-year limited warrantyReturn window
N/A
Add to compareBest massage guns compared
Massage GunWeightAmplitudeSpeed SettingsBattery LifeNoiseHSA/FSA EligibleWarrantyTrial PeriodPrice Theragun Elite 2.2 pounds16mm5 speeds120 mins65-68 decibelsYes1 year30 days$400Lifepro's Sonic Handheld Percussion Massage Gun 3.9 pounds12mm5 speeds3-6 hoursN/AYesLifetime30 days$60Renpho R4 Pro Massage Gun 2.2 pounds10mm4 speeds2 hours45 decibelsYes1 year1 year $70Ekrin Athletics B37S Percussion Massager 2.2 pounds12mm5 speeds8 hours35-55 decibelsYesLifetime30 days$200Ekrin Athletics Bantam 1.1 pounds 10mm3 speeds6 hoursN/AYesLifetime30 days$112Theragun Mini (2nd Generation) 0.45 kg12mm3 speeds120 mins60.5 decibelsYes1 year30 days$160Theragun Pro (5th Generation) 2.2 pounds16mm5 speeds150 mins20% quieterYes1 year30 days$600
How we test massage guns
Design: Although massage guns have a standard shape, we looked at the designs and materials that make up each massage gun. Even if they look similar, the knobs, buttons and screens can vary per product.Amplitude: The amplitude or the depth of the massage is the key to owning a solid massage gun. The higher the amplitude, the deeper the massage gun can target your muscles. We looked at the amplitude and observed how the massage gun felt in use. Additionally, we consider the speed settings on each of these massage guns.Noise: Massage guns are known for their loud vibrations, so we observed the level of noise generated by each massage gun. Although you can't eliminate the noise created by the massage gun, we took into account the size and decibels. Features: We looked at any unique features the massage guns offered such as apps, screen display, attachments available, travel carrying cases and more. Certain features can appeal to both the average user and professionals like physical therapists who may use massage guns in their practice. Other massage guns we tested
Hypervolt 2 Pro: The Hypervolt 2's successor was louder and heavier than I would've liked, but it has five speeds and is a good option if you find the speeds on the Hypervolt 2 aren't enough.Hypervolt 2 Pro
See at Hyperice
Hypervolt Go 2: Hypervolt's travel-size massage gun fell short when it came to power. It also didn't come with a travel case. It's a good option if you prefer something quieter than the Theragun Mini.Hypervolt Go 2
See at Hyperice
Theragun Prime: This Theragun version seems too expensive for its simplicity. But if you're loyal to Theragun and prefer a simple massage gun, the Prime is your best bet. Theragun Prime
See at Therabody
Theragun Pro (4th gen): This version didn't make the list because the fifth generation stepped things up a notch, and it's quieter.Theragun Pro 4th Generation
See at Als
Vybe Pro Percussion: Compared to the other massage guns on this list, the design of the Vybe Pro looks less sophisticated, and its buttons feel easy to break. I also found the arm too long, which adds to its weight.Vybe Pro Percussion
See at Walmart
Lifepro DynaMini: This mini lacked power unless you cranked it up to the two highest settings. It would have also benefited from a nonslip rubber coating on the handle, because the whole massage gun is made up of heavy metal. Lifepro DynaMini
See at LifePro Renpho Mini: This pocket-size massage gun is an affordable option if you aren't looking for a fancy design. It's made of plastic, which makes me question its durability if it were to fall. Renpho Mini
See at Tradeinn
Factors to consider when buying a massage gun
Budget: Think about how much you're willing to invest in a massage gun because a good one can cost anywhere from $100 to $600.Intensity: Determine if you're looking for a heavy-duty version or if you'd be happy with a less intense massage gun. Percussion or vibration therapy: Some massage guns offer either vibration or percussion therapy. Put simply, vibration therapy sends vibrations and constantly touches the surface of the skin, whereas percussive therapy uses pressure to get deeper into the muscle and glides on and off of the skin. The latter tends to be the preferred option of many. Frequency: Ask yourself how often you'll be using the massage gun. If it's frequent, you'll want to consider a massage gun with a decent battery life. Traveling: Determine if you're planning on taking it while traveling or on the go. There are smaller massage guns on the market that are suitable for these purposes, and some massage guns include carrying cases. Massage gun tips
If you're new to massage guns there are some things to keep in mind so you're getting the most out of them. We spoke with sports chiropractor and Hyperice ambassador Julia Morgan for advice on the best massage gun practices.Choosing the right massage gun: There are different types of massage guns on the market, so it's helpful to know if you want something heavy-duty because you're very active or if you don't need the massage gun with all the bells and whistles because you're only going to use it occasionally. Setting a budget for yourself is important, too, because some massage guns can go upwards of $100.Know what specs to look at: When choosing a massage gun, there are a couple of features you want to look at: The amplitude and stall force. "Stall force simply means how much pressure the motor of the massage gun can withstand before the motor 'stalls' with us," explains Morgan. Amplitude refers to how deep into the region it can go. You'll typically see amplitude in the range of 8mm, 12mm or 16mm as the deepest. Usually, heavy-duty massage guns have the highest amplitude compared to mini massage guns.Know the attachments: Most massage guns will come with a few different attachments that you can switch up depending on the area you're targeting. For example, the common attachments may include a standard ball which is good for large and small muscle groups, a bullet which is meant to target legs and back muscles, a forked head which is intended to target the spine, shoulders and neck, and a flat head which offers a gentler massage on the larger muscles.How often to use: Massage guns are safe to use regularly as long as there are no health concerns to address first. Morgan says, "Those with thin skin, who have underlying musculoskeletal or vascular conditions, or who are pregnant, should consult their doctor before use." Although massage guns are safe to use daily to soothe sore muscles or as part of a warm-up, it's important to ensure you're not experiencing chronic pain. "If you're using it every day on a pain that is not going away or getting better after two or three days, it may require another intervention," warns Morgan.Start slow: It may be tempting to put your massage gun in the highest setting, but the key is to start slow. "Gently glide the massage gun over the area, not holding for too long in one position," Morgan says. Use the massage gun in different directions and work on that area for about a few minutes, and take a break as needed. How to use a massage gun
There are different ways to use a massage gun whether you're an athlete or are simply looking for some muscle relief. These are some effective ways to use a massage gun:Use it before bed: Some people find using a massage gun before bed to be soothing. "A massage gun when used on a low setting can be super relaxing due to the increased blood flow and decreased perception of pain it results in," Morgan says. Don't forget your upper body: Because many people have jobs that require them to sit, the upper body usually ends up tense. "I think everyone can use a little love on their upper trapezius, quads and glutes a few times a week," Morgan says. She says spending about two minutes per body part at the beginning or end of your day can help bring awareness, decrease pain perception and improve the range of motion in the area.Use before or after workout: Crank up a massage gun for a few minutes to soothe your sore muscles after a workout or beforehand as part of your warm-up routine. Best massage guns FAQ
How do massage guns work?
Massage guns work by sending fast and powerful pulsating strokes that penetrate deep into muscle tissues. They increase muscle stimulation, reduce soft tissue pain and improve blood circulation, speed up recovery and improve your physical performance.
Show more
What are massage guns for?
Massage guns typically use percussive therapy, which has been found to help with recovery after a workout and relieving muscle aches, soreness and pain. Some people like to use a massage gun to warm up and promote circulation to a specific area before their workout.
Show more
Where should you use a massage gun?
You can use a massage gun on big muscle groups like your quads, hamstrings, glutes, back muscles and even your neck, hips and calves. You want to avoid using a massage gun on any injured areas, bones or joints. Remember that harder and faster isn't always better. Derrickson advises, "Start on the lowest setting and find your tolerance and what you need in the moment." He says you should never be forceful with a massage gun, adding, "You don't want constant pressure on one area the entire time, instead let it glide over the muscles."
Show more
Who should use a massage gun?
Typically it's OK for anyone to use a massage gun. If you have a pacemaker or an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator, it may interfere with the circuitry.
Show more
Can you use a massage gun while pregnant?
If you're pregnant, you should avoid using a massage gun or get clearance first from your doctor.
Show more
Is it OK to use a massage gun every day?
Massage guns are safe to use every day, as long as you use the proper technique, but you don't want to overdo it since it can reduce the benefits of the therapy. Grant Radermacher, a sports chiropractor, says, "Start with a small region of soft tissue and work with it for a maximum of 2 minutes." Anything longer than two minutes or static work can irritate the region, and/or create an adverse reaction of restricted blood flow due to compression.
Show more
What features make for a good massage gun?
When you're looking for the best massage gun for your needs, you'll want to make sure it can change speeds and intensity to adjust to the different muscle groups. Having several attachments may also be helpful for working different muscle groups.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Also written by
Valerie Cholet
Fitness Guides
Fitness Equipment
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Exercise Bike
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Home Exercise Equipment
Best Smart Home Gym Workouts
Fitness Accessories
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Walking Shoes for Men
Best Walking Shoes for Women
Best Running Shoes for Men
Best Running Shoes for Women
Best Compression Socks
Best Foam Roller
Fitness Tech
Best Massage Gun
Best Smart Scale
Best Mirror Workout
Best Fitness Workout Apps
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors
Tonal Review
Theragun Review
Fitness Nutrition
Best Protein Powders
Best Protein Shakes
Fitness Supplements that Work
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Foods for Building Muscle
Best Weight Loss Programs
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.