Capture of Rome - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Background
Toggle Background subsection
1.1
Franco-Prussian War
2
Prelude
3
The capture of Rome
4
Aftermath
5
Legacy
6
See also
7
Citations
8
References
9
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Capture of Rome
26 languages
العربيةČeštinaEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתLatinaBahasa MelayuNederlandsNorsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiTagalogTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVèneto中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Final event of Italian unification (1870)
This article is about the 1870 event in Italian unification. For other events in which Rome was captured, see Fall of Rome.
Capture of RomePart of the unification of ItalyBreach of Porta Pia
Carlo Ademollo, 1880Date20 September 1870LocationRomeResult
Italian victory
Fall of the Papal States
Completion of the Italian unification
Rome becomes the capital of ItalyTerritorialchanges
Annexation of Rome and Lazio by the Kingdom of ItalyBelligerents
Kingdom of Italy
Papal StatesCommanders and leaders
Victor Emmanuel II Raffaele Cadorna
Pope Pius IX Hermann Kanzler
Strength
50,000
13,157Casualties and losses
49 killed132 wounded[1]
19 killed68 wounded[1]
This article is part of a series onVatican City
History
History of the papacy
Duchy of Rome (554–751)
Donation of Pepin (750s)
Papal States (754–1870)
Annates
Congregation for Borders
Fundamental Statute for the Secular Government of the States of the Church
Capture of Rome (1870)
Savoyard era (1870–1929)
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Roman question
Law of Guarantees
Lateran Treaty (1929)
Vatican City (1929–present)
Governorate of Vatican City State
Vatican City during World War II
2010 Vatican employee sex scandal
Vatican leaks scandal (2012)
History of the Catholic Church (1962–present)
Roman Historical Institutes
Law
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Canon law
1983 Code of Canon Law
Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches
Pastor bonus
Capital punishment in Vatican City
Crime in Vatican City
Fundamental Law of Vatican City State
Lateran Treaty
Legal status of the Holy See
Alperin v. Vatican Bank
Doe v. Holy See
LGBTQ rights in Vatican City
Temporal power of the Holy See
Tribunal of Vatican City State
Politics and government
Association of Vatican Lay Workers
College of Cardinals
Camerlengo (chamberlain)
Dean
Corps of Firefighters of the Vatican City State
Corps of Gendarmerie of Vatican City
Court of Appeals
President: Alejandro Arellano Cedillo
Court of Cassation
President: Kevin Joseph Farrell
Fabric of Saint Peter
Foreign relations of the Holy See
Papal apocrisiarius
Governorate of Vatican City State
President: Raffaella Petrini
Military in Vatican City
Swiss Guard
Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State
Pontifical commission
Secretariat for Communications
Holy See Press Office
L'Osservatore Romano (newspaper)
L'Osservatore della Domenica
List of newspapers in Vatican City
.va (internet sites)
Vatican Information Service
Vatican Publishing House
Vatican Radio
Vatican Radio lawsuit
Vatican Television Center
Secretariat of State
Secretary: Pietro Parolin
Tribunale
President: Venerando Marano
Vatican Apostolic Archive
Vical General
Papacy
Pope
Popemobile
Catholic Church
Latin Church
Holy See
Diocese of Rome
Roman Curia
Conclave (papal elections)
Universi Dominici gregis
Recent conclaves
200520132025
Papal household
Papal gentleman
Prefecture of the Papal Household
Foreign relations
Concordats
Legal status of the Holy See
Lateran Treaty
Multilateral foreign policy
Section for Relations with States
Secretary for Relations with States: Paul Gallagher
Undersecretaries for Relations with States: Mirosław Stanisław Wachowski
List of diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Apostolic nuncios
Vatican City and Holy See passports
Visa requirements
Visa policy
Holy See and the United Nations
Holy See–Italy relations
Holy See–Israel relations
Holy See–Palestine relations
Holy See–United States relations
Economy
Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See
Institute for the Works of Religion
Properties of the Holy See
Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See
Secretariat for the Economy
Supervisory and Financial Information Authority
Telephone numbers in Vatican City
Tourism in Vatican City
Transport in Vatican City
Vatican City Heliport
Vatican Railway
Vatican euro coins
Vatican lira
Symbols
00120 (postal code)
Coat of arms of Vatican City
Flag
List of papal flags
Papal tiara
Papal coronation
"Pontifical Anthem"
Culture
Languages of Vatican City
Music of Vatican City
Sistine Chapel Choir
Papal Concert to Commemorate the Shoah
Postage stamps and postal history of Vatican City
Pontifical Academy of Sciences
Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences
Public holidays in Vatican City
Sport in Vatican City
The Story of the Vatican (1941 documentary)
Vatican Christmas Tree
Vatican Library
Vatican Museums
Women in Vatican City
Geography and buildings
Apostolic nunciature
Apostolic Palace
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Borgia Apartments
Bramante Staircase
Cappella Giulia
Cappella Paolina
Casina Pio IV
Circus of Nero
Cortile del Belvedere
Domus Sanctae Marthae
Extant papal tombs
Fountains of St. Peter's Square
Gardens of Vatican City
Gregorian Tower
Lateran Palace
Leonine City
Mater Ecclesiae Monastery
Monument to the Royal Stuarts
Niccoline Chapel
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Palace of the Holy Office
Palazzi Pontifici
Papal apartments
Passetto di Borgo
Paul VI Audience Hall
Porta San Pellegrino
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Saint John's Tower
St. Peter's Baldachin
St. Peter's Basilica
St. Peter's Square
Saint Peter's tomb
St Stephen of the Abyssinians
Sala Regia
San Pellegrino in Vaticano
Santa Maria della Pietà in Camposanto dei Teutonici
Santa Maria Maggiore
Sant'Anna dei Palafrenieri
Santi Martino e Sebastiano degli Svizzeri
Santo Stefano degli Ungheresi
Scala Regia
Teutonic Cemetery
Tomb of the Julii
Vatican Apostolic Archive
Vatican Grottoes
Vatican Hill
Vatican Necropolis
Vatican obelisk
Vatican Observatory
Vatican Pharmacy
Via della Conciliazione
Vatican Museums
Collection of Modern and Contemporary Art
Raphael Rooms
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes
Sistine Chapel
Sistine Chapel ceiling
Gallery of the Sistine Chapel ceiling
The Last Judgment (Michelangelo)
Vatican Gallery of Maps
Vatican Historical Museum
Index
Outline
Vatican City portal
Catholicism portalvte
The Capture of Rome (Italian: Presa di Roma) occurred on 20 September 1870, as forces of the Kingdom of Italy took control of the city and of the Papal States. After a plebiscite held on 2 October 1870, Rome was officially made capital of Italy on 3 February 1871, completing the unification of Italy (Risorgimento).
The capture of Rome by the Royal Italian Army brought an end to the Papal States, which had existed since the Donation of Pepin in 756, along with the temporal power of the Holy See, and led to the establishment of Rome as the capital of unified Italy. It is widely commemorated in Italy, especially in cathedral cities, by naming streets for the date: Via XX Settembre (spoken form: "Via Venti Settembre").
Background[edit]
The Kingdom of Italy (azure) and the Papal States (purple) in early 1870
In 1859, during the Second Italian War of Independence, much of the Papal States had been conquered by the Kingdom of Sardinia under Victor Emmanuel II. The next year, Giuseppe Garibaldi's Expedition of the Thousand resulted in the annexation of the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies by Sardinia, leading to the proclamation of the Kingdom of Italy on 17 March 1861.[2] The new state had not yet incorporated Rome and the surrounding region of Lazio, which remained part of the Papal States, and Veneto, which was ruled by Austria as a crown land and would only be annexed in 1866, after the Third Italian War of Independence.[3]
The first Prime Minister of Italy, Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour,[4] died soon after the proclamation of Italian national unity, leaving to his successors the solution of the knotty Venetian and Roman problems. Cavour had firmly believed that without Rome as the capital, Italy's unification would be incomplete.[5] "To go to Rome", said his successor, Bettino Ricasoli, "is not merely a right; it is an inexorable necessity." In regard to the future relations between church and state, Cavour's famous dictum was, "A free Church in a free State"; by which he meant that the former should be entirely free to exercise her spiritual powers and leave politics entirely to the latter.[5]
On 27 March 1861, the new Italian Parliament met in Turin and declared Rome the capital of Italy.[2] However, the Italian government could not take its seat in Rome because it did not control the territory.[2] Also, a French garrison was maintained in the city by Emperor Napoleon III in support of Pope Pius IX, who was determined not to hand over temporal power in the State of the Church.
Franco-Prussian War[edit]
On 13 and 18 July 1870, at the last months of the papacy's rule over Rome, the First Vatican Council which had begun in 1869 affirmed the doctrine of papal infallibility.[6] Then, bishops left Rome due to opposition stance, or for a summer break. The First Vatican Council never reconvened, and was formally closed only in 1960.
At the same time July 1870, France declared war on Prussia, and by early August, Napoleon III recalled his garrison from Rome.[6] The French not only needed the troops to defend their homeland, but were concerned that Italy might use the French presence in Rome as a pretext to join the war against France. Already in 1866, after the Austro-Prussian War had begun in June, Italy took advantage and attacked Austria to gain territory, and thus allied with Prussia. With Papal Rome still guarded by French forces, Italian public opinion again favored the Prussian side at the start of the Franco-Prussian War.[7] The removal of the French garrison allowed Italy to remain neutral and eased tensions between France and Italy.
It was only after the surrender of Napoleon III and his army at the Battle of Sedan on 2 September that the situation changed radically. The French Emperor was captured and deposed. The best French units had been captured by the Prussians, who quickly followed up their success at Sedan by marching on Paris. Faced with a pressing need to defend the capital with its remaining forces, the provisional government of the newly proclaimed French Republic was clearly not in a military position to retaliate against Italy. In any case, the republican government was far less sympathetic to the Holy See than the Empire and did not possess the political will to protect the pope's position.[8]
Prelude[edit]
Pope Pius IX blesses his troops for the last time, at St. Peter's Square, 25 April 1870
In early September 1870, King Victor Emmanuel II sent Count Gustavo Ponza di San Martino to Pope Pius IX offering a face-saving proposal that agreed to the peaceful entry of the Italian army into Rome, under the guise of protecting the pope.[9] Along with this letter, Ponza carried a list of provisions from Italian Prime Minister Giovanni Lanza, setting out ten articles as the basis of an agreement between Italy and the Holy See.[9]
The Pope would retain his sovereign inviolability and prerogatives.[10] The Leonine City would remain "under the full jurisdiction and sovereignty of the Pontiff".[10] The Italian state would guarantee the pope's freedom to communicate with the Catholic world, as well as diplomatic immunity both for papal nuncios and envoys in foreign lands and for foreign diplomats at the Holy See.[10] The government would supply a permanent annual fund for the pope and the cardinals, equal to the amount currently assigned to them by the budget of the pontifical state, and would assume all Papal civil servants and soldiers onto the state payroll, with full pensions as long as they were Italian.[10]
According to Raffaele De Cesare:
The Pope's reception of San Martino [10 September 1870] was unfriendly. Pius IX allowed violent outbursts to escape him. Throwing the King's letter upon the table he exclaimed, "Fine loyalty! You are all a set of vipers, of whited sepulchres, and wanting in faith." He was perhaps alluding to other letters received from the King. After, growing calmer, he exclaimed: "I am no prophet, nor son of a prophet,[11] but I tell you, you will never enter Rome!" San Martino was so mortified that he left the next day.[12]
Ponza then informed Lanza of the pope's refusal of the ultimatum.[13] The next day, 11 September, Italian troops led by General Raffaele Cadorna entered the Papal States with the objective of taking Rome, occupying the port city of Civitavecchia on 16 September.[8] The papal garrisons had retreated from Orvieto, Viterbo, Alatri, Frosinone and other strongholds in Lazio.[14] Under instructions from the Italian government, which still hoped to avoid seizing the capital by force, Cadorna sent a final appeal to the Papacy later the same day for the peaceful surrender of Rome.[15] In a letter addressed to General Hermann Kanzler, commander of the Papal troops in Rome, he highlighted "the strength of the forces involved in the attack compared to those on the defense", and renewed the request that the Papal army offered no resistance.[16] Kanzler refused, responding to Cadorna that he and the Italian government would be responsible, "before God and before the tribunal of history", for any casualties that would result from an attack.[16]
The capture of Rome[edit]
Bersaglieri at the capture of Porta Pia, by Michele Cammarano (1871)
The breach in the Aurelian Walls (right), near Porta Pia (left), opened by Italian artillery fire during the Capture of Rome, in a contemporary photograph
The flag that flew over Porta Pia during the fall of the city, it was preserved by the Ruspoli princes of the black nobility, first of all by Princess Cristina, and was preserved by the noble family for almost 141 years, until Prince Sforza Ruspoli handed it back to the Vatican Secretary of State, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone on the occasion of the anniversary of Saint Michael Archangel, patron saint of the Vatican Gerdarmerie corps, in 2011[17]
On 18 September, Minister of War Cesare Ricotti-Magnani gave Cadorna the order to attack Rome, but informed that the Leonine City, which would be reserved for the pope, should be spared, while also advising moderation.[18] The plan of attack was left entirely up to the general.[18] When the Italian army approached the city's ancient Aurelian Walls, the Papal force, commanded by General Kanzler, was composed of the Swiss Guard, the Palatine Guard and the Papal Zouaves—volunteers from France, Austria, the Netherlands, Spain, and other countries—for a total of 13,157 defenders against some 50,000 Italians.[19] The American consul in Rome, Maitland Armstrong, described the civilian population as unwilling to defend the pope's rule, and only two hundred people in the whole city answered the papacy's call for volunteers.[20]
The Italian army reached the Aurelian Walls on 19 September and placed Rome under siege. Pius IX decided that the surrender of the city would only be granted after his troops had put up enough resistance, to make it plain that the Italian takeover was achieved through force and not freely accepted.[20] At 5 a.m. on 20 September, Italian artillery began firing at the city walls.[20] Cadorna commanded the major line of assault, while troops on the other side of the city, charged with creating a distraction, were led by General Nino Bixio.[21] After a few hours, the Italian army breached the Aurelian Walls near Porta Pia, through where the troops flooded into Rome.[22] Forty-nine Italian soldiers and 19 Papal soldiers died in the fighting.[1] According to slightly different figures in a 2009 history of the Vatican military, the defence of Rome was far from bloodless, leaving 12 dead and 47 wounded among the Papal forces and 32 dead plus 145 wounded of the regular Italian troops.[23]
By 6 am, one hour after the attack began, foreign envoys began to arrive at the Apostolic Palace to meet the pope, including the ambassadors of France, Austria-Hungary and Prussia.[24] Pius, members of his entourage, and the diplomatic corps later gathered at his library, where, at around 9 am,[25] he received the news from Kanzler's chief of staff of the opening of the breach near Porta Pia.[24] Shortly afterwards, the terms of the Act of Capitulation were presented by Cadorna and signed by Kanzler at Villa Albani,[26] by which all of Rome, excluding the Leonine City, came under control of the Royal Italian Army.[27] A white flag was hoisted from the dome of St. Peter's Basilica,[21] and the defeated Papal forces were escorted to St. Peter's Square by Italian troops.[28]
Aftermath[edit]
Celebration outside the Palazzo Senatorio, in 1871, of the Roman plebiscite of 2 October 1870, which confirmed the city's incorporation into Italy
As part of the terms of surrender, the Papal Army was disbanded and its foreign soldiers were immediately repatriated.[29] The pope was allowed to retain the Swiss, Noble, and Palatine guard units.[30] With most of the papal military demobilized, protests against Pius took place in the Leonine City on 21 September.[26]
To legitimize the city's annexation, Prime Minister Lanza held a plebiscite [it] in Rome on 2 October 1870.[26] Out of 167,548 eligible voters, an overwhelming majority of 133,681 voted in favor of union with Italy, with 1,507 votes against.[26] On 9 October, a royal decree confirmed the incorporation of Rome and surrounding Lazio into the Kingdom of Italy.[26] Pius denounced the plebiscite's result and instances of electoral violence employed to secure it.[26] The pope issued the encyclical Respicientes on 1 November, in which he proclaimed a mass excommunication of the invaders, including King Victor Emmanuel II.[31]
The Italian government promised Pius sovereignty over the Leonine City and gave him assurances of his inviolability, but the pope still would not agree to give up his claims to a broader territory,[26] and claimed that since his army had been disbanded, apart from a few guards, he was unable to ensure public order even in such a small area.[30] On 13 May 1871, the Italian Parliament passed the Law of Guarantees, granting the pope extensive prerogatives, such as independence on foreign affairs and an annual grant from the Italian government.[32] While these measures satisfied the international community, including the Catholic countries, Pius refused to accept the law, proclaiming himself a "prisoner in the Vatican".[32][33]
Legacy[edit]
See also: Roman Question
Monument and victory column to the Capture of Rome, at the site of the breach near Porta Pia
For nearly sixty years thereafter, relations between the Papacy and the Italian government were hostile, and the status of the Pope became known as the "Roman Question".
Negotiations for the settlement of the Roman Question began in 1926 between the government of Fascist Italy and the Holy See, and culminated in the Lateran Pacts, signed for King Victor Emmanuel III by Benito Mussolini, Prime Minister and Head of Government, and for Pope Pius XI by Pietro Gasparri, Cardinal Secretary of State, on 11 February 1929.[34] The agreements were signed in the Lateran Palace, from which they take their name. In the first article of the treaty, Italy reaffirmed the principle established in the 1848 Constitution of the Kingdom of Italy, that "the Catholic, Apostolic and Roman Religion is the only religion of the State".[35] To commemorate the successful conclusion of the negotiations, Mussolini commissioned the Via della Conciliazione (Road of the Conciliation), which would symbolically link the Vatican City to the heart of Rome.
The post-World War II Constitution of the Italian Republic, adopted in 1948, states that relations between the State and the Catholic Church "are regulated by the Lateran Treaties".[36] In 1984, the concordat was significantly revised. Both sides declared: "The principle of the Catholic religion as the sole religion of the Italian State, originally referred to by the Lateran Pacts, shall be considered to be no longer in force".[37] The exclusive state financial support for the Church was also ended, and replaced by financing through a dedicated personal income tax called the otto per mille, to which other religious groups, Christian and non-Christian, also have access.
See also[edit]
History of Rome
Roman Republic (1849–1850)
La presa di Roma, 1905 silent film directed by Filoteo Alberini.
Citations[edit]
^ a b c "Cirkevné dejiny / Pred 150 rokmi sa skončila svetská moc pápežov".
^ a b c Bartolini 2020, p. 311.
^ Bartolini 2020, p. 334.
^ Schapiro, J. Salwyn, PhD, Modern and Contemporary European History (1815–1921) (Houghton Mifflin Company, The Riverside Press Cambridge, 1921, Revised Edition), p. 208
^ a b Schapiro, J. Salwyn, PhD, Modern and Contemporary European History (1815–1921) (Houghton Mifflin Company, The Riverside Press Cambridge, 1921, Revised Edition), p. 218
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 7.
^ Field 2012, p. 54.
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 51.
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 44.
^ a b c d Kertzer 2006, p. 45.
^ These words are derived from the Biblical Book of Amos 7:14 where the Prophet defies the emissary of the King of Israel; s:Bible, King James, Amos#Chapter 7
^ De Cesare, 1909, p. 444.
^ Kertzer 2006, p. 48.
^ Rendina, Enciclopedia di Roma, p. 985
^ Kertzer 2006, pp. 51–52.
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 52.
^ "Vaticano, la bandiera di Porta Pia ritorna dopo 141 anni". La Stampa (in Italian). 29 September 2011. Retrieved 3 November 2023.
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 53.
^ De Cesare, 1909, p. 443
^ a b c Kertzer 2006, p. 55.
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 56.
^ Kertzer 2006, pp. 55–56.
^ Alvarez, David (9 May 2011). The Pope's Soldiers. University Press of Kansas. p. 248. ISBN 978-0-7006-1770-8.
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 57.
^ Coppa 2014, p. 142.
^ a b c d e f g Coppa 2014, p. 143.
^ Kertzer 2006, pp. 57–58.
^ Kertzer 2006, p. 58.
^ Bartolini 2020, p. 324.
^ a b Kertzer 2006, p. 60.
^ "Respicientes - Papal Encyclicals". 1 November 1870. Retrieved 20 January 2025.
^ a b Coppa 2014, p. 145.
^ Kertzer 2006, p. 3.
^ "Vatican City turns 91". Vatican News. 11 February 2020. Retrieved 2 September 2021. The world's smallest sovereign state was born on February 11, 1929, with the signing of the Lateran Treaty between the Holy See and the Kingdom of Italy
^ "Patti lateranensi, 11 febbraio 1929 – Segreteria di Stato, card. Pietro Gasparri". www.vatican.va.
^ Constitution of Italy, article 7.
^ "Agreement between the Italian Republic and the Holy See (English translation)" (PDF). The American Society of International Law. Archived (PDF) from the original on 22 September 2020. Retrieved 2 September 2021.
References[edit]
Kertzer, David I. (2006). Prisoner of the Vatican: The Popes, the Kings, and Garibaldi's Rebels in the Struggle to Rule Modern Italy. Boston: HarperCollins Publishers. ISBN 978-0-618-61919-1.
de Cesare, Raffaele (1909). The Last Days of Papal Rome, 1850-1870. Translated by Zimmern, Helen. London: A. Constable & Co.
Rendina, Claudio (2000). Rendina, Claudio (ed.). La Grande Enciclopedia di Roma: Personaggi, Curiosità, Monumenti, Storia, Arte e Folclore della Città Eterna dalle Origini al Duemila. Quest'Italia (in Italian). Roma: Newton & Compton. ISBN 978-88-8289-316-3.
Coppa, Frank J. (2014) [1992]. The Origins of the Italian Wars of Independence. Origins of modern wars. London: Longman. ISBN 978-0-582-04045-8.
Field, Ron (2012). Garibaldi. Command Series. London: Bloomsbury Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84908-322-5.
Bartolini, Giulio (2020). Bartolini, Giulio (ed.). A History of International Law in Italy. The History and Theory of International Law. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-884293-4. OCLC 1144092638.
Schapiro, J. Salwyn (1922). Shotwell, James T. (ed.). Modern and Contemporary European History (1815-1921). Boston; New York; Chicago: Houghton Mifflin Company.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Capture of Rome.
Article by Angela Pellicciari (in Italian)
Historical summary at cronologia.leonardo.it (in Italian)
The Papal Zouaves
Papal States and all that : Part 1. Vatican Radio.
Papal States and all that : Part 2. Vatican Radio.
vteUnification of Italy (Risorgimento)Pre-unitary states
Kingdom of Sardinia (House of Savoy)
Kingdom of the Two Sicilies
Kingdom of Lombardy–Venetia
Papal States
Grand Duchy of Tuscany
Duchy of Parma
Duchy of Modena and Reggio
Timeline
Rimini Proclamation
Carbonari
Revolutions during the 1820s
Revolutions of 1830
Young Italy
Neo-Guelphism
Revolutions of 1848
Revolutions of 1848 in the Italian states
Republic of San Marco
Roman Republic
Quadrilatero
First Italian War of Independence
Five Days of Milan
Sortie on Mestre
Sicilian revolution of 1848
Ten Days of Brescia
Belfiore martyrs
Crimean War
Plombières Agreement
Second Italian War of Independence
United Provinces of Central Italy
Expedition of the Thousand
Dictatorship of Garibaldi
Siege of Gaeta (1860–1861)
Proclamation of the Kingdom of Italy
Brigandage in Southern Italy after 1861
Roman Question
Third Italian War of Independence
Capture of Rome
Law of Guarantees
Italian entry into World War I
Impresa di Fiume
Symbols
Cockade of Italy
Flag of Italy
Main leaders
Massimo d'Azeglio
Agostino Bertani
Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour
Celso Ceretti
Federico Confalonieri
Francesco Crispi
Giuseppe Garibaldi
Daniele Manin
Giuseppe Mazzini
Bettino Ricasoli
Aurelio Saffi
Annibale Santore di Santarosa
Ruggero Settimo
Victor Emmanuel II
Literature and philosophy
Giovanni Arrivabene
Cesare Balbo
Giosuè Carducci
Carlo Cattaneo
Felice Cavallotti
Vincenzo Cuoco
Giuseppe Ferrari
Ugo Foscolo
Vincenzo Gioberti
Francesco Domenico Guerrazzi
Giacomo Leopardi
Francesco Lomonaco
Goffredo Mameli
Alessandro Manzoni
Ippolito Nievo
Silvio Pellico
Carlo Pisacane
Gian Domenico Romagnosi
Antonio Rosmini
Francesco Saverio Salfi
Opponents
Pope Pius IX
Franz Joseph I of Austria
Francis II of the Two Sicilies
Klemens von Metternich
Joseph Radetzky von Radetz
Museums
Museum of the Risorgimento (Bologna)
Museum of the Risorgimento (Milan)
Museum of the Risorgimento (Rome)
Museum of the Risorgimento (Turin)
Tricolour Flag Museum
National days
Anniversary of the Unification of Italy
National Unity and Armed Forces Day
Other
Altare della Patria
Italian irredentism
Italian nationalism
Italian Romanticism
Redshirts
Revisionism of Risorgimento
Southern question
Third Rome
vteItaly articlesHistoryOverview
Timeline of Italian history
By topic
Citizenship
Currency and coinage
Economy
Fashion
Flags
Genetic
Historic states
Judaism
LGBT
Military
Music
Name
Postage
Railways
Prehistory
Prehistory
Neolithic
Villanovan
Terramare
Rinaldone
Apennine
Nuragic
Golasecca
Canegrate
Latial
Ancient
Ancient peoples
Italic peoples
Latins
Osci
Picentes
Samnites
Umbri
Veneti
Etruscans
Celts
Magna Graecia
Ligures
Messapians
Ancient Rome
Kingdom
Republic
Roman conquest
Roman Italy
Empire
Western Empire
Middle Ages
Middle Ages
Italy under Odoacer
Ostrogoths
Byzantium
Lombards
Papal States
the Holy Roman Empire
the Sardinian Judicates
Arabs
Normans
Guelphs and Ghibellines
Lombard League
Kingdom of Sicily
War of the Sicilian Vespers
Kingdom of Naples
Early modern
Italian city-states
Florence
Siena
Milan
Maritime republics
Venice
Genoa
Pisa
Amalfi
Kingdom of Sardinia
Grand Duchy of Tuscany
Duchy of Savoy
Renaissance
Italian Wars
Early Modern period
Napoleonic Italy
Austrian occupation and Kingdom of Lombardy-Venetia
Kingdom of the Two Sicilies
Late modern
Unification
First War of Independence
Second War of Independence
Niçard exodus
Expedition of the Thousand
Proclamation of the Kingdom of Italy
Third War of Independence
Capture of Rome
Monarchy and the World Wars
Kingdom of Italy
Colonial Empire
World War I
Fourth War of Independence
Fascist Italy
World War II
Fall of the Fascist regime
Resistance and Social Republic
Civil War
Contemporary
Republic
Institutional referendum
Istrian–Dalmatian exodus
Economic Boom
Years of Lead
Maxi Trial
Mani pulite
Coronavirus pandemic
Geography
Italian geographical region
Peninsula
Climate
Climate change
Geology
Fauna
Flora
Mountains
Prealps
Alps
Apennines
Volcanism
Volcanoes
Beaches
Canals
Caves
Earthquakes
Islands
Lakes
Marine protected areas
National parks
Regional parks
Rivers
Valleys
Politics
Constitution
Elections
Foreign relations
Government
Human rights
LGBT rights
Judiciary
Law
Law enforcement
Military
Nationality
Parliament
Political parties
President (List)
Prime Minister (List)
Council of Ministers
Regions
Provinces
Metropolitan cities
Cities
Comune
Municipalities
Security and intelligence
Economy
Economy
Italian regions by GDP
Agriculture
Automotive industry
Banking
Banks
Central Bank
Brands
Companies
Energy
Exports
Science and technology
Southern question
Stock exchange
Taxation
Telecommunications
Tourism
Trade unions
Transport
air
rail
road
Welfare
Wine
Society
Aristocracy
Censorship
Corruption
Crime
Demographics
Education
Emigration and diaspora
Gambling
Health
Healthcare
Immigration
Inventions and discoveries
Italians
People
Languages
Italian
Regional
Life expectancy
Orders, decorations, and medals
Poverty
Prostitution
Public administration
Racism
Religion
Social class
Terrorism
Water supply and sanitation
Women
Culture
Duecento
Trecento
Quattrocento
Cinquecento
Seicento
Settecento
Ottocento
Anthem
Architecture
Art
Castles
Cathedrals
Cinema
Coat of arm
Cuisine
Design
Fashion
Flag
Folklore
Gardens
Internet
Italophilia
Libraries
Literature
Media
Museums
Music
Mythology
National symbols
Palaces
Philosophy
Public holidays
Sport
Television
Theatre
Traditions
World Heritage Sites
Italy portal
Category
Authority control databases InternationalGNDFASTNationalUnited StatesIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Capture_of_Rome&oldid=1309469871"
Categories: Conflicts in 1870Italian unificationSieges involving ItalySieges involving the Papal States1870 in ItalyHoly See–Italy relationsPope Pius IX1870s in Rome1870 in the Papal StatesSieges of RomeSeptember 1870Hidden categories: CS1 Italian-language sources (it)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from May 2024Articles containing Italian-language textCommons category link is on WikidataArticles with Italian-language sources (it)Italy articles missing geocoordinate dataAll articles needing coordinatesArticles missing coordinates without coordinates on Wikidata
This page was last edited on 4 September 2025, at 07:08 (UTC). Warning: Page may not contain recent updates.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Capture of Rome
26 languages
Add topic