Journals infiltrated with ‘copycat’ papers that can be written by AI
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
23 September 2025
Journals infiltrated with ‘copycat’ papers that can be written by AI
Tools such as ChatGPT can be used to generate almost-identical research papers that pass standard plagiarism checks. Hundreds are thought to have been published.
By
Miryam Naddaf0
Miryam Naddaf
Miryam Naddaf is a science writer based in London.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Open data sets and AI tools can be used to mass-produce low-quality, redundant papers.Credit: Tutatama/AlamyAn analysis of a literature database finds that text-generating artificial intelligence (AI) tools — including ChatGPT and Gemini — can be used to rewrite scientific papers and produce ‘copycat’ versions that are then passed off as new research.In a preprint posted on medRxiv on 12 September1, researchers identified more than 400 such papers published in 112 journals over the past 4.5 years, and demonstrated that AI-generated biomedicine studies could evade publishers’ anti-plagiarism checks.Low-quality papers based on public health data are flooding the scientific literatureThe study’s authors warn that individuals and paper mills — companies that produce fake papers to order and sell authorships — might be exploiting publicly available health data sets and using large language models (LLMs) to mass-produce low-quality papers that lack scientific value.“If left unaddressed, this AI-based approach can be applied to all sorts of open-access databases, generating far more papers than anyone can imagine,” says Csaba Szabó, a pharmacologist at the University of Fribourg in Switzerland, who was not involved in the work. “This could open up Pandora’s box [and] the literature may be flooded with synthetic papers.”Redundant researchTo investigate, researchers screened association studies — those that statistically link a variable to a health outcome — that were based on data from the US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), a huge open repository of data on the health, diet and lifestyles of thousands of people.They focused their search on studies they defined as ‘redundant’, meaning that the work tested the association between the same variable and health outcome as other research did, but analysed a subtly different subset of the actual data — including results from different survey years, for example, or participants of a different age or sex.AI linked to explosion of low-quality biomedical research papersTheir search of the PubMed index of biomedical literature revealed 411 redundant studies published between January 2021 and July 2025. Most were simple ‘repeat’ cases, involving two publications that were almost identical. But three associations had a particularly high number of duplicate studies — six papers apiece — some of which were published in the same year.This “shouldn’t be happening, and it doesn’t help the health of the scientific literature”, says co-author Matt Spick, a biomedical scientist at the University of Surrey in Guildford, UK.Most publishers have checks in place to prevent researchers submitting the same research to multiple journals, but Spick and his colleagues suspect that AI tools are being used to evade these.Avoiding detectionTo test whether AI can help to produce multiple papers from the same data set, the researchers used OpenAI’s chatbot ChatGPT and Google’s Gemini to rewrite three of the most heavily redundant articles identified by their analysis (each reported a particular association that had already been published five or six times). The researchers prompted the LLMs to use the information in each paper, and NHANES data, to produce a new manuscript that could avoid plagiarism detectors.“We were shocked that it worked straight away,” says Spick. “They weren’t perfect, and the LLMs did create some errors. It took two hours of cleaning-up work for each manuscript.”Rise of ChatGPT and other tools raises major questions for researchWhen analysed with a plagiarism-detection tool used by many publishers, the AI-generated manuscripts did not score at a level that would be considered problematic by editors. This shows that LLMs “can produce something that is derivative of everything that’s gone before and doesn’t include anything new. But it’ll still pass plagiarism checks”, says Spick. This, in turn, makes it more difficult to distinguish between researchers who are producing genuine research using public-health data sets such as NHANES, and others who are deliberately creating redundant papers using LLMs, the authors note.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03046-z
ReferencesMaupin, D., Suchak, T., Barnett, A. & Spick, M. Preprint at medRxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.09.09.25335401 (2025).Spick, M. et al. Preprint at medRxiv https://doi.org/10.1101/2025.07.07.25331008 (2025).Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
AI linked to explosion of low-quality biomedical research papers
Rise of ChatGPT and other tools raises major questions for research
Biomedical paper retractions have quadrupled in 20 years — why?
The fight against fake-paper factories that churn out sham science
Low-quality papers based on public health data are flooding the scientific literature
Subjects
Publishing
Scientific community
Software
Machine learning
Latest on:
Publishing
Scientific community
Software
‘Shake it off’: Taylor Swift’s changing voice shows how our accents evolve
News 23 SEP 25
How a mentoring connection boosted my ambitions for a science career
Career Column 19 SEP 25
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Career Feature 17 SEP 25
It’s not wokeness — it’s human rights
Career Q&A 24 SEP 25
The future of universities: a Nature special report
News Feature 24 SEP 25
Universities under fire must harness more of the financial value they create
World View 24 SEP 25
‘Shake it off’: Taylor Swift’s changing voice shows how our accents evolve
News 23 SEP 25
Six questions to ask before jumping into a spreadsheet
Technology Feature 11 AUG 25
Need to update your data? Follow these five tips
Technology Feature 14 JUL 25
Jobs
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
The School of Life Science and Technology (SLST) invites applications for numerous tenure-track and tenured positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
AI linked to explosion of low-quality biomedical research papers
Rise of ChatGPT and other tools raises major questions for research
Biomedical paper retractions have quadrupled in 20 years — why?
The fight against fake-paper factories that churn out sham science
Low-quality papers based on public health data are flooding the scientific literature
Subjects
Publishing
Scientific community
Software
Machine learning
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited