Waymo's Strategy to Get More People Inside Robotaxis Comes Into View - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Transportation
Waymo's aggressive strategy to get you inside a robotaxi is coming into view
By
Lloyd Lee
Waymo has secured partnerships with ride-hailing giants and local agencies to bring its robotaxis to more riders.
Eric Thayer/Getty Images
2025-09-18T11:45:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Waymo has its own app in which riders can hail a robotaxi.
That hasn't stopped Waymo from partnering with major ride-hailing companies and other platforms.
The move shows how the company is exploring multiple avenues to get riders inside its cars.
Waymo wants more people in its robotaxis. Two new partnerships this week show how the company is pursuing that goal.
On Wednesday, the Alphabet spinoff announced it would bring self-driving cars to Nashville, in part by making its service available on the Lyft platform. The partnership means Waymo is now partnered with two of the biggest ride-hailing companies in North America: Uber and Lyft.At a smaller scale, Waymo said today that it will make its existing robotaxi fleet in the Metro-Phoenix area available to Chandler Flex riders.
Chandler Flex is an on-demand microtransit program powered by Via, a New York City-based public transit software company that went public earlier this week. Riders use an app to request a ride, somewhat similar to a ride-hailing platform, but the program has lower fares and determines routes based on where other riders are going.Chandler Flex's ridership is small compared to Waymo's monthly numbers — 120,000 rides in 3 years compared to Waymo's more than 250,000 trips a week.It just goes to show how a company backed by a tech titan is willing to try different avenues, small or large, to get more riders in robotaxi seats.
"The main purpose of what Waymo does today, I think, is to learn," Brad Templeton, who was a consultant for Waymo's Google Self-Driving Car Project phase, told Business Insider. "Up until recently, it's been about learning what works, what doesn't work — experimenting with pricing, experimenting with policies, and experimenting with partnerships."Waymo has shown it's willing to go it alone in large markets, like Los Angeles and San Francisco, using its proprietary Waymo app. But the company has also leveraged partnerships to tap into a rider base that has had more than a decade to familiarize itself with Uber and Lyft.Alphabet and Google are big brands, Templeton said. Waymo, less so.
"Because (Alphabet) is building the Waymo brand on its own, basically, partnering with an Uber just means 'we can keep our vehicles full,'" Templeton said.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Waymo doesn't disclose the terms of its partnerships, including how much revenue it gets from rides, but Templeton said the robotaxi company could have significant sway considering Alphabet's size.The company is 14 times larger than Lyft and Uber combined by market cap.
Waymo's partnership with Via and Chandler Flex is less about attracting more users than about exploring different use cases for autonomous vehicles.A Waymo spokesperson told Business Insider the company is "excited about the long-term potential for Waymo to help improve access to shared, electric transportation through Via's platform.""Ultimately, this partnership was created to help fill gaps in transportation and create even greater access to affordable microtransit in a community we already operate in," the spokesperson said.
Templeton, however, still sees the move as an early glimpse into a future where autonomous vehicles could replace some of the costly aspects of maintaining a public transit system, including the fuel for buses and the drivers."Practical people have already been doing a lot of microtransits because they know that the (transit) systems they operate today are very inefficient and very expensive and that it's actually cheaper to do it with smaller vehicles," he said. "I've kind of been expecting experiments in this sooner than this."Update: September 18, 2025 — An earlier version of this story compared Chandler Flex to Uber and Lyft. A clarification was added to specify how the services are related.
Recommended video
Waymo
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account