Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Tired of your crummy ISP router? This Netgear beast unleashes Wi-Fi 6 speeds and is now down to its lowest price
Credit: Source: Netgear
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 6 days ago
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
NETGEAR R6700AX Router
$60
$90
Save $30
This Wi-Fi 6 router is an excellent option for smaller homes, where mesh systems aren't really needed. Plus, it's not all that costly, coming in at just $60.
$60 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
There are a lot of great reasons to upgrade your router, especially if you're using something that comes from your internet service provider. A new router can provide better control, along with added features, while also providing better speeds too. It's a huge win if you're someone that relies on the internet every single day. Of course, there are plenty of different routers to choose from, but we think this one from Netgear delivers exactly what you're looking for in an upgrade at a price that's easy to accept. For a limited time, you can score the Netgear R6700AX router at one of its lowest prices as it drops to just $60.
A new router is just what your network needs
Credit: Source: Netgear
Despite routers all having the same function, not all are equal. This is especially the case if you're using something from your ISP, because those devices are usually pretty barebones. The good news is that upgrading your router can lead to a number of improvements, with better speed and consistency in your internet connection.
This one from Netgear that's on sale right now utilizes Wi-Fi 6 technology, delivering speeds up to 1.8 Gbps, while also covering up to 1,500 square feet. You can have up to 20 devices connected at a time, and there are also four Ethernet ports, just in case you need wired connections to a few of your devices.
The router is pretty easy to set up, and can be done through an accompanying app from your phone or tablet. You can also control the router using the app, while also looking at traffic data as well. Overall, this router provides a solid experience that doesn't cost a whole lot. Grab it now for just $60 while you can.
Networking
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 15, 2025
This free, self-hosted productivity stack can help you track every aspect of your life
Sep 15, 2025
I tried Firecracker microVMs for self-hosted services, and it's surprisingly powerful
6 days ago
Windows 11 version 25H2 is almost here — and it's so boring it almost becomes interesting
6 days ago
The Raycast beta for Windows already improves one of my favorite features
Today's best deals
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
46 minutes ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
3 hours ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
4 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This open-source project turns old PCs into voice controllers for Home Assistant - and it's completely free
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
If you really love Hollow Knight: Silksong, you have to play these challenging metroidvania games as well
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.