Starbucks CEO Wants Chain to Be 'Greatest Customer Service Company' - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Retail
Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol explains why he's not worried about a cash-strapped middle class hurting sales
By
Alex Bitter
and
Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert
Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol has said he wants the chain to become "the greatest customer service company."
AP Photo/John Locher
2025-09-17T09:54:02Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Many consumers are cutting back on spending because of concerns about the economy.
Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol has said that won't impact the chain's turnaround plans.
Niccol said Starbucks wants to win customers over by being "the greatest customer service company."
Some consumers are cutting back their spending, including on food and dining out.
That may seem like a problem for Starbucks, where a standard pumpkin spice latte can set you back $6. Starbucks CEO Brian Niccol has a plan to win over cost-conscious customers, though: Offer great customer service.Speaking at the Fast Company Innovation Festival on Tuesday, Niccol was asked whether he worried that concerns about the economy and personal spending might keep middle-class customers away from the chain. Niccol has spent the past year trying to turn around sales growth at the coffee chain — often investing money to do it.
Niccol said Starbucks was trying to draw in customers with a great experience. "I would love for Starbucks to become the greatest customer service company," he said at the event."Right now, when I ask people to name me a great customer service company, I usually get a blank stare," Niccol said.That points to an opportunity for Starbucks if it can offer both exceptional service and a menu that customers like, he said.
"When you look at putting those two things together for the price that we will have to charge for it, I think it will turn out to be invaluable," Niccol said.A Starbucks spokesperson directed Business Insider to Niccol's earlier commentary, which suggested customers were finding value from the strategy.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"Customer value perceptions are near two-year highs, driven by gains among Gen Z and millennials, who make up over half our customer base," Niccol said on the company's third-quarter earnings call.
Under Niccol's leadership, Starbucks has made several changes the company says are directed at improving service. It's adding shifts for baristas as well as asking them to write personalized messages to customers on cups, for instance. Niccol also said during the third-quarter earnings call that the company was looking to get customers their drinks in cafés and drive-thrus within four minutes of when they order them.The initiatives are part of Niccol's "Back to Starbucks" turnaround effort. Niccol has said he wants each café to be "a welcoming coffeehouse" for patrons.A little over a year after he took the company's top job, some analysts who follow Starbucks have said they're still watching some key indicators — such as foot traffic and customer retention — for evidence that Niccol's strategy is working.
Niccol said Tuesday that feedback from customers and store employees so far suggested Starbucks was making progress."I think we're on our way to being that world-class customer service, customer-experience company," he said.Have a tip? Contact Katherine Tangalakis-Lippert at ktangalakislippert@businessinsider.com or Signal at byktl.50. Use a personal email address, a nonwork WiFi network, and a nonwork device; here's our guide to sharing information securely.
Recommended video
Starbucks
Food
Fast Food
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account