This legendary must-play title for horror fans is at its lowest price ever on Steam right now
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This legendary must-play title for horror fans is at its lowest price ever on Steam right now
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 12, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
I don't say this lightly: if you're a huge fan of horror games, but you've never given the original Dead Space a try, you really, really have to. The first game set a foundation for a series spanning multiple titles, and even to this day, the scares still hold up. Speaking of things holding up, EA recently gave the original Dead Space a fresh lick of paint to bring its visuals up to modern standards. Now you have the excellent tension that the original game created, mixed with the incredible visuals of a current-day game. And to top it off, the game is 80% off right now, down to an impressive $12.
The Dead Space remake is 80% off on Steam right now
If you've never heard of Dead Space before, first of all, I want to say how jealous I am of your position. I wish I could revisit Dead Space for the first time, but alas, I cannot; as such, I'll use my time telling people whenever this amazing game goes on sale so they can try it instead. The cool thing about Dead Space is that you're not playing as some grizzled soldier. In fact, you're at the helm of an engineer whose main weapons involve tools that you can use as guns in a pinch. And you'll find yourself in a lot of pinches. Here's how EA describes the game:
The sci-fi survival-horror classic Dead Space™ returns, completely rebuilt from the ground up to offer a deeper, more immersive experience. This remake brings jaw-dropping visual fidelity, suspenseful atmospheric audio, and improvements to gameplay while staying faithful to the original game’s thrilling vision.
Isaac Clarke is an everyman engineer on a mission to repair a vast mining ship, the USG Ishimura, only to discover something has gone horribly wrong. The ship's crew has been slaughtered and Isaac’s beloved partner, Nicole, is lost somewhere on board.
Sounds good, right? If so, head over to the Dead Space Steam page and grab it for 80% between now and September 25th. And if you need more convincing, Dead Space was one of a handful of horror games that one of our writers was too scared to finish as a teen.
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
The greatest stealth games ever made, and why they still hold up
Sep 11, 2025
If I could only keep one, this is the Raspberry Pi project I'd choose above all else
Sep 11, 2025
6 ways anyone can use LM Studio and a local LLM on their PC
Sep 11, 2025
3 ways I use NotebookLM’s most underrated feature to make research easier than ever
More from our brands
One of the Best Horror Games on Steam is 90% Off
Xbox Fans Surprised At How Good This 14-Year Old Game Is And It's Free
Every Single Elder Scrolls Game Is On Sale Right Now, Including Oblivion Remastered
Resident Evil Meets Alone In The Dark In This Criminally Underrated Survival Horror Game That's Just $2 On Switch
One Of 2023's Best Horror Games Is 80% Off On PC, & You Can Beat It In A Weekend
Dead Space Deserved More Than a Single Remake
Best Horror Games On Xbox Game Pass (March 2025)
Today's best deals
This legendary FromSoftware title with 93% positive reviews is 50% off on Steam
11 hours ago
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
15 hours ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
17 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
6 free file managers on Linux that are better than anything on Windows
This is the easiest way to run Docker on Windows without losing your mind
The minds behind NotebookLM just launched their first tool since leaving Google, and it already feels like a hit
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.