Best Bread Machines of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeKitchen & Household Small Appliances
The Very Best Bread Machines of 2025, as Tested by CNET
Let the scent of freshly baked bread waft through your kitchen with the help of the best bread machines.
Our Experts
Written by
Pamela Vachon
Article updated on February 27, 2025 at 3:11 PM PST
Pamela Vachon Contributor Pamela is a freelance food and travel writer based in Astoria, Queens. While she writes about most things edible and potable (and accessories dedicated to those topics,) her real areas of expertise are cheese, chocolate, cooking and wine. She's a culinary school grad, certified sommelier, former bartender and fine dining captain with 10 years in the industry. When not sitting at the keys, she leads in-home cheese classes, wine tastings and cocktail demonstrations. Expertise Wine | Cheese | Chocolate | Cooking
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Mastering a bread recipe or making homemade bread takes effort, but it doesn't have to feel like a struggle. With a bread machine, you can easily start making your own bread at home. This kitchen tool simplifies the process by handling the kneading and proofing for you. However, finding the right machine that makes fresh bread baking simple can be tricky. That's why we're here to help. We tested several machines and narrowed it down to five options. Our Picks
Best bread machine overall Cuisinart Convection Bread Maker CBK-210
Jump to details
$200 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best high-end bread machine Zojirushi Home Bakery Virtuoso Plus BB-PDC20BA
Jump to details
$380 at Amazon
Jump to details
Most compact bread machine Amazon Basics Bread Machine BM1349-UL-B
Jump to details
$68 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best bread machine custom sizes Breville Custom Bread Maker BBM800XL
Jump to details
$300 at Amazon
Jump to details
Most versatile bread machine Oster ExpressBake CKSTBRTW20
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
The Very Best Bread Machines of 2025, as Tested by CNET
What is the best bread maker overall?
Best bread machines for 2025
Best bread machine overall
Best high-end bread machine
Most compact bread machine
Best bread machine custom sizes
Most versatile bread machine
Other bread machines I tested
How we tested bread machines
How to choose a bread machine
Best bread machine FAQs
What is the best bread maker overall?Whether you want to get a bread machine to bake a fresh loaf for yourself every week, or as a unique gift for someone who has everything, we've found the best bread machines worth the counter space, especially our top pick from Cuisinart. The Cuisinart Convection Bread Maker CBK-210 circulates heat to give you evenly baked bread, and the orientation of the machine makes it look prettier, too. Its alert system keeps you informed at every step, ensuring you don’t miss anything -- even if you’re not nearby to add mix-ins or remove the paddle. Unlike many machines that leave an indent from the paddle, this one doesn’t. It’s a well-designed option that thoughtfully accounts for even the smallest details.Best Grocery Delivery Services for 2025
See at Cnet
If this option doesn't work for your kitchen but you're still looking to get one of the best bread makers available, there should be another option on this list for you. Because we've tested many of the top-selling models, from those with high-tech bells and whistles to cheaper, automatic bread makers that nail the basics.Best bread machines for 2025
Cuisinart
Photo Gallery 1/1
Cuisinart
Best bread machine overall
Cuisinart Convection Bread Maker CBK-210
Pros
Audible step reminders
Luxury performance at a fraction of the price
Cons
Bulky
Convection ovens are often prized by bakers. Where conventional ovens just create ambient heat, convection ovens also have a fan that circulates hot air, leading to quicker, more even baking and exceptional crustiness in bread. Even in this form, the Cuisinart Convection Bread Maker is no exception. Like the Zojirushi (my favorite bread maker if money's no object) but priced at a third of the cost, the Cuisinart Convection's loaf pan is also horizontal, resulting in a more traditional loaf shape, but also requiring more counter space than the vertical models.My favorite feature of this Cuisinart model is that audible alerts let you know not only when to add any mix-ins, but also when to remove the mixing paddle between the final rise and the baking stage. It's a small detail, but one limitation of most bread machines is the paddle-shaped hole in the bottom of every loaf, which Cuisinart has found a viable way around.  ... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Amazon
Zojirushi
Photo Gallery 1/1
Zojirushi
Best high-end bread machine
Zojirushi Home Bakery Virtuoso Plus BB-PDC20BA
Pros
Double paddles for kneading stage
Creates a traditional loaf shape
Setting variety
Cons
Pricy
Bulky
If you're serious about taking on home-baked bread in perpetuity, the Zojirushi Home Bakery Virtuoso is the best model among bread machines. Its price tag and space requirement reflect your investment in it. This was my favorite bread machine to use, overall, but the hefty price tag keeps it out of the top spot.There are two reasons why the Zojirushi is such an exceptional bread maker: First, double paddles within the loaf pan provide more mechanical muscle in the kneading stage, resulting in bread with a more integrated crust and a chewier nature than most bread machines can achieve. Second, its elongated, horizontal pan creates loaves that are more of a traditional bread loaf shape, with the familiar dome on top of each slice.The Zojirushi Virtuoso also includes the greatest variety of settings. In addition to the typical bread settings, as well as the dough and jam cycles that all of these bread machines provide, the Virtuoso's various cycles adjust the timings and temperatures of the kneading and rising stages for the best outcome given whatever kind of bread you are making, including gluten-free, sugar-free, salt-free and vegan settings, as well as open settings which you can customize to your liking.Despite its comparatively high-tech appearance, the digital display is completely intuitive and easy to program and also shows the stage in progress during the bread-making cycle. This bread maker begins with a "rest" cycle, as it brings all of the ingredients up to an ideal temperature for the yeast first. Arguably this may factor into its superior loaf, but it is a little anticlimactic compared to the other bread makers that begin mixing as soon as you hit start. (Admittedly, I had to go to the manual to make sure I hadn't done something incorrectly.)  ... Show more
Get it now
$380 at Amazon
Amazon Basics
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon Basics
Most compact bread machine
Amazon Basics Bread Machine BM1349-UL-B
Pros
Inexpensive
Compact size
Standard setting can make bread in < 3 hours
Cons
Loaves on the smaller size
Another great budget option, the Amazon Basics Bread Machine is the most compact model available, scarcely taking up more space than your average toaster, which makes it more likely to stay on your counter and, most importantly, stay in use. Despite its petite stature, the loaf I made achieved a great rise and a robust crust. This model has the quickest basic cycle (without choosing express mode), completing in just under 3 hours. Yogurt and gluten-free settings are included, and unlike the other less expensive models, the Amazon Basics Bread Machine does indicate the current stage during the baking cycle, allowing for the possibility of manual paddle removal.  ... Show more
Get it now
$68 at Amazon
Breville
Photo Gallery 1/1
Breville
Best bread machine custom sizes
Breville Custom Bread Maker BBM800XL
Pros
Multiple loaf size options
Pre-heat cycle
Collapsible paddle
Cons
Pricey
Despite the hefty price, the Breville Custom Loaf Bread Maker has a lot going for it, including style. In addition to its horizontal loaf pan and built-in fruit and nut dispenser, this model is the most versatile where loaf size is concerned, offering four different size settings: a quick and compact 1-pound loaf, the standard 1.5- and 2-pound loaves, and a hefty 2.5-pound setting for the largest loaf available in a standard bread maker.Like the Zojirushi, Breville also includes a pre-heat cycle at the beginning of the process, bringing the ingredients to a yeast-friendly temperature before beginning, resulting in an especially good rise.Much like Cuisinart, Breville has found a way around the paddle-shaped hole problem, as it comes equipped with a unique collapsible paddle that automatically flattens itself along the bottom of the pan after the kneading and rising cycles have completed. (Because this is automatic, it has a leg up in this camp because it's still possible to have an unadulterated loaf while using the delay start setting when you're not available to monitor it.) In addition to the typical bread and dough settings, the Breville model also offers an express option for numerous cycles rather than a basic express cycle, and it has pasta dough settings and a gluten-free bread machine setting. Among these bread machines, the Breville is the only one whose display relies on a dial, rather than simply push buttons, but I found it just as intuitive as every other one I tried.  ... Show more
Get it now
$300 at Amazon
$300 at Best Buy
$300 at QVC
Oster
Photo Gallery 1/1
Oster
Most versatile bread machine
Oster ExpressBake CKSTBRTW20
Pros
Express setting can make bread in less than an hour
Cheapest
"Set it and forget it" process
Cons
Display limitations
The Oster ExpressBake has a lot to offer for a median price tag. Several of the models here include an express cycle, and Oster's cycle is one of the quickest, whipping up a basic loaf of bread in just an hour. (Loaves baked in the express mode tend to be denser, as the rising and proofing time is typically diminished.) The loaf I made on the basic cycle achieved a nice rise and a flaky crust. The Oster model is the only option on this list under $150 that includes the fruit and nut dispenser, which means you really can set it and forget it, even for more complicated recipes.In addition to the bread, dough and jam settings, the Oster ExpressBake even includes settings for oatmeal and yogurt, in which the machine masquerades as an Instant Pot for low-and-slow cooking. Anyone can do overnight oats in the fridge, but warm overnight oats are decidedly delicious. In terms of size, it is the second-smallest model available. The only limitation of the Oster compared to most other machines on this list is that its display doesn't show you what stage the bread in progress is in, although that's a feature that satisfies curiosity more than it affects performance, and the countdown timer lets you know when your bread will be ready.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Walmart
Other bread machines I tested
Cuisinart Stainless Steel Breadmaker: This $130 model was on our previous list, but the basic cycle was long and the crust was the lightest. How we tested bread machines
The list of best bread machines I tested was assembled based on a combination of previous CNET bread machine picks and those that have also been well-vetted and appear on multiple review sites' best lists. I also considered best-selling and consistently highly rated models at major retailer sites such as Amazon, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Wayfair and Williams-Sonoma.
All of the bread makers turned out loaves of bread that were far more than just edible.  Pamela Vachon/CNETI tested each model over two days using each model's basic setting: a 2-pound loaf of white bread with a medium crust, using weighed ingredients that were all purchased at the same time. Every bread machine I tested included recipe suggestions, but to level the playing field, I used the same recipe for each: King Arthur Flour's Bread Machine Bread recipe, which uses easy-to-come-by ingredients, including milk, butter, all-purpose flour, sugar, salt and instant yeast. I evaluated the resulting loaf for its crust and crumb texture, as well as the machine itself for factors like noise volume and ease of use. (More good news: All these machines were intuitive and easy to set up without even a cursory glance at the instruction manual.)Best Kitchen Gifts for a Home Chef in 2025
See at CNET
How to choose a bread machine
While all the bread machines I tested can produce a decent loaf of basic bread, they come in various shapes and sizes with a range of additional features and price points. If size or price are limiting factors for you, the decision is going to become very easy, with just a couple of compact models that are less than $100 to consider. If not, it will probably be a matter of which additional features are most important, depending on the kinds of bread you anticipate making the most. As you start the process of choosing a bread machine, you'll find they vary significantly in shape, size and price. There are a few factors that contribute to these differences in bread machine options and you'll want to consider which features are most important for your baking needs.
You too can have daily fresh bread for about 25 cents a loaf.  Pamela Vachon/CNETBread machine sizeFirst, automatic bread makers come in different sizes. This not only refers to the physical space of the appliance for baking bread (which can be substantial) but also the size of the loaf it can bake. Common bread maker sizes include 1- and 2-pound loaf models -- if you're only baking a loaf of bread for yourself, a smaller bread maker might work just fine, while larger families might need larger loaves to keep everyone satisfied with comforting carbs.
The Hamilton Beach is compact, budget-friendly and turned out some of the best bread of the bunch. Pamela Vachon/CNETBread machine shapeYou'll also want to think about the shape of the appliance's inner bread pan, as this will determine the shape of the loaf of bread. Many bread-making machines have square pans, which yield square loaves, but you can also find bread machine models that make horizontal loaves that are closer to what you'd buy in the store.Types of bread it makesSome are better equipped to produce a thicker, more consistent crust, some have built-in settings for gluten-free loaves, while others allow you to pre-set mix-ins such as fruit or nuts, which will add them at the appropriate moment along the way. Want to make different kinds of bread? Bread makers can only churn out specific types of bread depending on the bread flour and settings, so if you want to make wheat, whole grain, French bread, white bread, sourdough bread or other varieties, you'll need a machine that has the appropriate settings for your bread machine recipe. If you want gluten-free bread then you should go for a gluten-free bread machine. Some fancier bread machines even have nonbread settings, such as ones for cake.
The Zojirushi was my favorite bread maker to use but its hefty price keeps it out of the #1 spot.  Pamela Vachon/CNETBread machine features and settingsMost bread machines produce a standard, 1.5- or 2-pound loaf, and they come preprogrammed with various settings, including those for white, wheat and quick bread, among other common bread types, as well as dough and jam settings. All have the option of choosing a light, medium or dark crust, and also include a delayed start feature, meaning you can assemble ingredients in the morning, and come home after work to the warm and cozy aroma of freshly baked bread. (Throw a soup or chili mixture into a slow cooker while you're at it, and your evening self will be very pleased with your morning self.) Alternatively, you can set it at night and wake up to freshly baked bread.Another feature of the machine you'll want to look into is the paddle. While you will want to make sure it is easy to remove for cleaning, you may also want to consider one with a non-stick coating so there isn't as much to clean off to begin with. Some machines feature multiple paddles to help mix the dough better. If you care about the way your bread is shaped, you could look for a collapsible paddle to minimize the hole the paddle can sometimes leave in the bread. Best bread machine FAQs
Is a bread machine worth it? How much can you save?
If you are a regular consumer of bread and believe yourself to be someone who doesn't acquire an appliance only to let it collect dust, then as a cost-saving matter, a bread machine can be well worth your money. The cost of a loaf of bread is typically between $3 and $6, while the cost of ingredients to make bread amounts to pennies by comparison, about 25 cents on average for a loaf's worth of flour, yeast, etc. Even as a conservative calculation, if you go through a loaf of bread every two weeks, you can save as much as $150 a year by using a bread maker, and much more if you go through bread more quickly than that. $150 covers most of the models on this list, so your bread maker will pay for itself after just a year of use. The longer you keep it, the more cost-effective it becomes. Those are just the financial considerations. Only you can quantify the value of the smell of freshly baked bread.
Show more
How do you clean a bread machine?
The nonstick loaf pan and mixing paddle of a given bread machine are easy to clean either in the sink or in the dishwasher. The metal pin that holds the paddle inside the bread maker can become encrusted if not cleaned properly, but is also easy to clean with just a cloth and water, as is the inside of the heating unit. If you are following an appropriate recipe to make the correct size loaf in a standard bread maker, you shouldn't experience any spillage into the body of the bread machine.
Show more
How do bread makers compare to bakery bread?
The primary limitation of a bread maker is that it can only make bread in one shape, but all the bread makers here also include a dough setting, which will do the mixing, kneading and proofing for you, after which you can shape the dough to your liking and bake in an oven. Certain bakery breads also rely on high baking temperatures to achieve distinct crusts, which a bread machine cannot achieve. For basic bread such as white and wheat, and quick bread like banana and pumpkin bread, bread machine loaves are certainly better than conventional grocery store bread, and are on par with many bakery offerings.
Show more
How much do bread makers cost?
Bread makers may sound like fancy, complex cooking machines or luxury items but you can find them for as little as $74, sometimes cheaper. Higher-end bread maker models such as those from Breville and Zojirushi can cost as much as $400 but they typically offer more nuanced and tailored settings and fancy features.
Show more
How long does homemade bread last?
Bread stored at room temperature will last anywhere from 2-4 days, but if it's stored in the fridge, it can last longer. Alternatively, if you're not eating it right away, you can place it in an airtight container, wrapped in wax or parchment paper and place it in the freezer until you're ready to use it.
Show more
About the Author
Pamela Vachon Contributor Pamela Vachon Contributor
Pamela is a freelance food and travel writer based in Astoria, Queens. While she writes about most things edible and potable (and accessories dedicated to those topics,) her real areas of expertise are cheese, chocolate, cooking and wine. She's a culinary school grad, certified sommelier, former bartender and fine dining captain with 10 years in the industry. When not sitting at the keys, she leads in-home cheese classes, wine tastings and cocktail demonstrations.
Read full bio
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.