IRS Free File: Do your taxes for free | Internal Revenue Service
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
()
or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
English
Español中文 (简体)中文 (繁體)한국어РусскийTiếng ViệtKreyòl ayisyen
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
Search
Sign in
Menu
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Main navigation
File
Overview
INFORMATION FOR…
Individuals
Business and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International filers
Retirement
Governments and tax-exempt bonds
Indian Tribal Governments
FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS
How to file
When to file
Where to file
Update your information
POPULAR
Tax record (transcript)
Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)
Amend return
Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN)
File your taxes for free
Pay
Overview
PAY BY
Bank Account (Direct Pay)
Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
POPULAR
Your Online Account
Tax Withholding Estimator
Estimated Taxes
Penalties
Refunds
Overview
Where’s My Refund?
Direct deposit
Where’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
Overview
INFORMATION FOR...
Individuals
For you and your family
Businesses & Self-Employed
Standard mileage and other information
POPULAR
Earned Income Credit (EITC)
Child Tax Credit
Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits
Standard Deduction
Retirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
Overview
POPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONS
Form 1040
Individual Income Tax Return
Form 1040 Instructions
Instructions for Form 1040
Form W-9
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Certification
Form 4506-T
Request for Transcript of Tax Return
Form W-4
Employee's Withholding Certificate
Form 941
Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return
Form W-2
Wage and Tax Statement
Form 9465
Installment Agreement Request
POPULAR FOR TAX PROS
Form 1040-X
Amended Individual Income Tax Return
Form 2848
Power of Attorney
Form W-7
Apply for an ITIN
Circular 230
Regulations Governing Practice before the IRS
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
File
OverviewINFORMATION FOR…IndividualsBusiness and self-employedCharities and nonprofitsInternational filersRetirementGovernments and tax-exempt bondsIndian Tribal GovernmentsFILING FOR INDIVIDUALSHow to fileWhen to fileWhere to fileUpdate your informationPOPULARTax record (transcript)Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)Amend returnIdentity Protection PIN (IP PIN)File your taxes for free
Pay
OverviewPAY BYBank Account (Direct Pay)Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)POPULARYour Online AccountTax Withholding EstimatorEstimated TaxesPenalties
Refunds
OverviewWhere’s My Refund?Direct depositWhere’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
OverviewINFORMATION FOR...IndividualsBusinesses & Self-EmployedPOPULAREarned Income Credit (EITC)Child Tax CreditClean Energy and Vehicle CreditsStandard DeductionRetirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
OverviewPOPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONSForm 1040Form 1040 InstructionsForm W-9Form 4506-TForm W-4Form 941Form W-2Form 9465POPULAR FOR TAX PROSForm 1040-XForm 2848Form W-7Circular 230
Main navigation
File
Pay
Refunds
Credits & Deductions
Forms & Instructions
Info Menu Mobile
Charities & Nonprofits
Help
News
Tax Pros
HomeFileIndividualsFile your tax return
IRS Free File: Do your taxes for free
IRS Free File: Do your taxes for free
EnglishEspañol中文 (简体)中文 (繁體)한국어РусскийTiếng ViệtKreyòl ayisyen
More In File
Individuals
Who should file
Steps to file your taxes
File your tax return
Free File
Direct File for free
Get an extension
Amend return
Your information
Life events
Students
Employees
Parents
Military
Seniors and retirees
Businesses and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International taxpayers
Governmental liaisons
Federal, state and local governments
Indian tribal governments
Tax exempt bonds
Taxpayer identification numbers (TIN)
Body
IRS Free File lets qualified taxpayers prepare and file federal income tax returns online using guided tax preparation software. It’s safe, easy and no cost to you. Those who don’t qualify can still use Free File Fillable Forms.
Choose from IRS Free File:
Guided Tax Software
For Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) $84,000 or less
Let the software do the work
You choose from IRS partner tax software companies
Simple questions to guide you
Accurate math calculations guaranteed
Some free state tax preparation and filing
Spanish tax preparation and filing available
Explore Free Guided Tax Software
Fillable Forms
For any income level
You do the work
Enter your information into online forms you select
Use form instructions to guide you
Limited calculations used
No state tax returns
Use Fillable Forms
About IRS Free File
The IRS Free File program is a fast, safe and free way to do your federal tax return online. The IRS and industry-leading tax software companies deliver the program through the Free File Alliance. This public-private nonprofit organization is dedicated to helping millions of people prepare and e-file their federal taxes for free. The IRS does not endorse any individual partner company.
Free File help topics
Find what you need to get started, your protections and security, available forms and more about IRS Free File.
How IRS Free File offers work
Choose a Free File option from www.IRS.gov. You won’t get the free service if you go directly to a company’s website.
IRS Free File sends you directly to the IRS partner’s website to create an account.
Prepare and file your federal tax return.
Get an email when the IRS has accepted your return.
IRS Free File Program offers the most commonly filed forms.
About IRS Free File partnership with online tax preparation companies
The IRS Free File program is a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) between the IRS and the Free File Alliance, a coalition of leading tax preparation software companies. IRS Free File partners are online tax preparation companies that offer what is called the “IRS Free File” program, which provides free electronic tax preparation and filing of federal tax returns at no cost to qualifying taxpayers (some may also offer free state returns). The IRS Free File program PPP is not a traditional contractual arrangement; this partnership represents a balance of joint responsibility and collaboration that serves the interests of taxpayers and the Federal government. The online tax preparation software partners are part of the Free File Alliance, which coordinates with the IRS to provide free electronic federal tax preparation and filing to you. This non-profit, public-private partnership is dedicated to helping millions of people prepare and file their federal taxes online for free.
The IRS does not endorse any individual partner company.
What you need to get started
Personal information you need
A copy of last year's tax return in order to access your AGI
Valid Social Security numbers for yourself, your spouse, and any dependent, if applicable
Income and receipts
Social Security benefits
Unemployment Compensation
All receipts pertaining to your small business, if applicable
Income receipts from rental, real estate, royalties, partnerships, S corporation, trusts
Other income
W-2s, showing your annual wages from all of your employers
Form 1099-INT, showing interest paid to you throughout the year
Form 1099-G, showing any refund, credit or offset of state and local taxes
Forms 1099-DIV and 1099-R, showing dividends and distributions from retirement and other plans paid to you during the year
ACA filers
Form 1095-A, Health Insurance Marketplace Statement. For more information see Affordable Care Act (ACA) Tax Provisions.
Form 8962, Premium Tax Credit
File electronically
When self-preparing your taxes and filing electronically, you must sign and validate your electronic tax return. To verify your identity, use last year’s AGI or last year’s self-select signature personal identification number (PIN). To sign your electronic tax return, use a 5 digit self-select PIN, any five numbers (except all zeros) that you choose which serves as your electronic signature.
If you do not know last year’s AGI, have a copy of your prior year tax return, you can find that information by signing into your online account. This is the fastest and easiest way to view your prior year adjusted gross income (AGI) and access your tax records.
If you are unable to access your online account, you can get a tax return transcript by mail showing your prior year AGI.
Contact information
Enter your email address so the IRS Free File software company can notify you when IRS accepts your return.
Information safety
Your information is protected when it’s sent to the IRS. IRS Free File partner companies may not disclose or use tax return information for purposes other than tax return preparation without your informed and voluntary consent. These companies are also subject to the Federal Trade Commission Privacy and Safeguards Rules and IRS e-file regulations.
We don’t collect or keep your information when you use IRS Free File. Our policy prohibits the use of permanent internet cookies. We sometimes use “temporary” cookies to deliver information at your request. These are deleted when your internet visit ends.
Spanish filing
Qualifying taxpayers can file for free in Spanish with IRS Free File partner EzTaxReturn.com.
Who qualifies
You must live in one of these states:
AL, AR, AZ, CA, CO, CT, GA, IA, ID, IL, KS, KY, LA, MA, MD, ME, MI, MN, MO, MS, NC, NE, NH, NJ, NM, NY, OH, OK, PA, SC, VA, WA, WI
You also must be either:
Age 17 to 91 with $84,000 or less adjusted gross income (AGI)
Active-duty military
If you qualify, you can also file a free state tax return in Spanish for Iowa, Idaho, or Maine.
Prior-year returns
Please note you can only file your current year tax return using IRS Free File. You cannot process a prior year return using IRS Free File.
Prior year returns can only be filed electronically by registered tax preparers for the two previous tax years. The IRS does not allow electronic filing for prior year returns through self-preparation websites. You must print, sign, and mail prior year returns. Our Directory of Federal Tax Return Preparers with Credentials and Select Qualifications can help you find preparers in your area who currently hold professional credentials recognized by the IRS, or who hold an Annual Filing Season Program Record of Completion. You can also check the professional organizations many tax preparers belong to.
Related tools and information
To view your balance owed, payment history or other information from your tax account, create or view your account.
Get up-to-date information on your refund.
Always remember to print your return after you successfully file online. If you forget to print your return, you can order a free transcript. Depending on the type of transcript you request, you'll get more or less of the information from your return.
To change your address on file, refer to the IRS Procedures guidance, How to notify the IRS my address has changed.
To change your bank account information on file, refer to the IRS Procedures guidance, What should I do if I entered an incorrect routing or account number for direct deposit of my refund?
You can use Direct Pay to pay your individual tax bill or estimated tax payment from your checking or savings account for free.
File an extension using IRS Free File, Form 4868, during tax filing season. You still must estimate and pay any tax you owe by the April due date.
Get a replacement Social Security benefit statement Form SSA-1099 online.
Don’t have a bank account? To find a bank with an online account that’s right for you, check the FDIC website. If you’re a veteran, find options with the Veterans Benefits Banking Program (VBBP). You can also ask your tax preparer for electronic payment options.
The benefits of the IRS Free File program
You can obtain a free federal tax return:
You choose an IRS Free File company after reviewing their eligibility criteria for a free return. If you qualify and choose a program, it’s free to prepare and e-file your federal tax return.
If you used IRS Free File last year, you will receive an email from the same company that you used, welcoming you back to their official IRS Free File services. The email must include a link to the company’s IRS Free File site and explain how to file with it. If you choose this email link and qualify, you will not be charged for preparation and e-filing of a federal tax return.
Fees to file your federal return are prohibited:
Companies in the IRS Free File Program won’t charge you anything to file your federal tax return if you qualify. They also won’t ask you to buy any products or services (for example, promotional rebates) in exchange for a free federal tax return.
Bank products with fees are not a part of IRS Free File. As part of IRS Free File, you must not be offered bank products that often carry product fees, such as refund transfer products (e.g., refund anticipation loans (RALs)).
Free state returns may be available: Some IRS Free File Program partner companies offer free state tax preparation. Others charge a state fee. Be sure to read each company’s information carefully.
Each IRS Free File Company Guarantees the Accuracy of the Return Calculations: Each company lists this guarantee on its Free File website. You can pursue any accuracy concerns directly with the company that prepared your return.
You have choices: If you don’t qualify for an IRS Free File offer after visiting a company’s Free File website, you can return to the IRS.gov Free File website to seek a Free File offer that may meet your needs. Each IRS Free File company will provide you information when you don’t qualify, with a link back to the IRS.gov Free File site.
Seek help if you need it: If you need help when you are at a company’s IRS Free File site and doing your taxes, you may refer to the company’s free customer service options.
IRS can help find a free option for you. IRS Free File has a Choose a trusted partner tool to help you find an offer that best meets your needs.
How to use the Find Your Trusted Partner Tool
How to create an account to use IRS Free File Fillable Forms
Transcript
Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 15-Sep-2025
ShareFacebookTwitterLinkedinPrint
Footer Navigation
Our Agency
About IRS
Careers
Operations and Budget
Tax Statistics
Help
Find a Local Office
Know Your Rights
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
Taxpayer Advocate Service
Independent Office of Appeals
Civil Rights
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
Reliance on Guidance
Resolve an Issue
IRS Notices and Letters
Identity Theft
Tax scams
Tax Fraud
Criminal Investigation
Whistleblower Office
Languages
Español
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Pусский
Tiếng Việt
Kreyòl ayisyen
English
Other Languages
Related Sites
U.S. Treasury
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
USA.gov
USAspending.gov
Vote.gov
Subfooter
Privacy Policy
Accessibility