Unleash the full potential of your smart home with this mind-blowing D-Link switch that's 44% off
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Unleash the full potential of your smart home with this mind-blowing D-Link switch that's 44% off
By
Timi Cantisano
Published Sep 5, 2025
Timi has been writing about technology for over a decade, focusing on smartphones, computers, and anything that he finds interesting in the space. He started writing for XDA, covering all things mobile, but has transitioned to covering deals, with a mission to shed light on some of the best discounts around the internet on the greatest tech products.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
D-Link 10-Port Gigabit Smart Managed PoE+ Switch
$90
$160
Save $70
If you've been looking to take your home to a new level, this smart switch is going to do just that, with 8 powered ports and 65W of total power. Grab it now for 44% off.
$90 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
You've probably heard about switches before, but if you've never dabbled with PoE, it's a good way to get power to your connected devices without running another set of cables. Just by connecting compatible devices using Ethernet with PoE, you can have a simultaneous data and power connection. As you can imagine, this is quite convenient and can even be a lifesaver in some situations. The only downside is that you need to find a switch that works for you and fits within your budget. While it might still be a little on the pricey side, we think this D-Link switch might be a good fit, thanks to its steep 44% discount that drops it down to $90.
Connect your home in a new way
As far as what you get, this switch has 8 PoE Gigabit ports, which means you can supply power for up to eight compatible devices. However, there is a limit on how much power you can supply using a switch, and for this one, it's going to be up to 65W across all ports. Naturally, you can connect cameras, phones, PCs, and more.
So as you can imagine, it's very convenient to have something like this in your home, office, or even home lab. And just in case you need to take things to another level, this switch also has two Small Form-Factor Pluggable (SFP) slots. SFP is a good way to go if you need the best speeds and coverage, but otherwise, Ethernet should be more than fine.
Of course, this switch offers a ton more, and you'll want to check out the product page to get the full details, but for the most part, we think this is a solid offering at the price. Plus, D-Link throws in a lifetime warranty on this product so you can be sure that it will be extremely reliable.
Networking
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
How I used VLANs to separate my smart home devices — and why you should too
Sep 10, 2025
We may have gotten our first peek at the next Windows Start menu, and you may not like what you see
Sep 9, 2025
5 operating systems I love testing in a VM, but would never install on my PC
Sep 9, 2025
The most alive and immersive open-world maps ever created
More from our brands
Upgrading to wireless HDMI is easy, but I wish I'd have known this first
The Surprising Device That Can Transform Your Home Internet: Here's How It Works
How to set up a smart home on a budget
How to Make Your Dumb TV Smart With These 5 Gadgets
Using this port will upgrade your smart TV for free
How I turned my Raspberry Pi into a Zigbee hub and made my smart home better
How I made all my smart home devices HomeKit compatible with a Raspberry Pi
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
18 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
I don't code, but VSCode is still my favorite app
How I finally nailed ABS 3D printing without an enclosure (yes, really)
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.