This cool ESP32-powered D&D dice roller makes it look like you're playing TTRPGs in a 90s sci-fi movie
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This cool ESP32-powered D&D dice roller makes it look like you're playing TTRPGs in a 90s sci-fi movie
Image Credit: vostoklabs
By
Simon Batt
Published 6 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Retro-styled ESP32 dice roller with wireframe graphics and touchscreen in a 3D-printed case.
Uses a ~$10 premade board with built-in touchscreen—no soldering required; just flash and go.
Perfect for D&D: simple build—print the case, drop in the ESP32, flash the code, tweak to taste.
Digital dice rollers are really cool. Whether you use them for accessibility reasons or you're simply tired of rolling a D20 clean off the table for the thousandth time, they're convenient to have on hand. Best of all, because they're so easy to make, you don't need to purchase one if you don't want to, which opens up possibilities of tweaking and editing it to your liking. Take, for instance, this cool retro-styled dice roller. Not only does it let you roll a die with the touch of a few buttons, but it also shows the die rolling with a cool wireframe graphic. It somewhat resembles what people in the 90s thought playing D&D would look like in 2025.
You, too, can build this cool digital dice roller for your next D&D campaign
Over on the ESP32 subreddit, user vostoklabs took the time to showcase their latest project. It's a cool dice-rolling device that combines an ESP32, a screen, and a 3D-printed enclosure to make rolling dice a breeze. Additionally, it utilizes some visually appealing wireframe graphics to showcase the dice. Take a look:
Looks cool, right? Here's how vostoklabs describes their project:
This is retro styled DnD roller, based on CYD board with integrated touchscreen and 3D printed enclosure
Project was inspired by similar thing made by "Abe's projects" but greatly simplified, instead of creating whole thing from scratch I just used 10$ premade board from AliExpress
The style is inspired by old school Elite Dangerous games
If you'd like to make it yourself, you can check out all the details over on the creator's MakerWorld page. Because the project uses a touchscreen, it means you can print out the case without worrying about having to implement physical buttons. In fact, the specific board that vostoklabs picked comes with a touchscreen by default, so you don't even need to attach one manually. Plus, the instructions state that you don't need to solder anything if you don't want to, which is always good news. Other than that, it looks like the instructions are pretty simple: print the case, put the ESP32 board inside the case, flash the memory with the software, and you're good to go. If you'd like to make a dice spinner without all the electronic bits, you can 3D print one. We previously covered this excellent 3D-printed dice wheel that doesn't use any wires to work, which is really cool.
Other Hardware
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
6 days ago
These 7 incredible games won’t ever hold your hand, and you’ll love them for it
Sep 17, 2025
Winux is a Linux distro that looks like Windows 11, but that's not a good thing
Sep 17, 2025
9front is a weird Unix-based operating system with an even stranger history
Sep 17, 2025
This is the zero-config dashboard I wish I’d installed on day one
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
51 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 diagnostic tools I always keep on a bootable USB drive
I migrated my self-hosted services from one Proxmox node to another, and it was shockingly easy
3 reasons why Obsidian seems intimidating, and why you shouldn't worry
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.