BleepingComputer | Cybersecurity, Technology News and Support
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
This $80 refurbished Lenovo chromebook Is a good deal right now
Canada dismantles TradeOgre exchange, seizes $40 million in crypto
Stay fit and connected — and spend 68% less on an Apple Watch
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Latest Articles
Security
Criminals earn $195K in July with Cerber Ransomware Affiliate Scheme
Check Point Software, along with IntSights, have released a very detailed report on the Cerber Ransomware and its Ransomware as a Service affiliate system. The revenue generated by the Cerber affiliate system is staggering, with Cerber generating $195,000 in profits for July and the malware developer taking a 40% cut from this total.
Lawrence Abrams August 16, 2016
04:44 PM
3
Security, Business
Credit Card Info exposed by POS Malware at some Starwood and HEI Hotels
Malware is believed to have infiltrated point-of-sale (POS) terminals and compromised customers' payment card information at 20 HEI Hotels & Resorts locations. This malware affected a total of 12 Starwood hotels, six Marriott resorts, and one location of Hyatt and Intercontinental each.
David Bisson August 16, 2016
01:13 PM
2
New Webinar: Analyzing Real-world ClickFix Attacks
ClickFix, FileFix, fake CAPTCHA — whatever you call it, attacks where users interact with malicious scripts in their web browser are a fast-growing source of security breaches.Register for the webinar on October 23rd to learn how ClickFix-style attacks are bypassing detection controls, and what security teams can do about it.
Push Security Sponsorship
Security
Check Point releases working Decryptor for the Cerber Ransomware
For those who have been affected by the Cerber Ransomware and decided not to pay the ransomware, we have good news for you!  Today, Check Point released a free decryption service for files encrypted with the .CERBER and .CERBER2 extensions.
Lawrence Abrams August 16, 2016
11:32 AM
33
Security
The Shark Ransomware Project allows you to create your own Customized Ransomware
A new Ransomware as a Service, or RaaS, called the Shark Ransomware Project has been discovered.  The Shark Ransomware Project offers would-be criminals the ability to create their own customized ransomware without needing any technical experience and by simply filling out a form and clicking a button.
Lawrence Abrams August 15, 2016
05:01 PM
11
Security, Business
DDoSCoin - An Incentive to Launch DDoS Attacks?
Researchers have devised a new cryptocurrency called DDoSCoin that could potentially incentivize criminals to harass, extort, and attack websites designated as targets. This coin would award people who perform Denial of Service Attacks on chosen victims by rewarding them with DDosCoins.
David Bisson August 15, 2016
01:58 PM
2
Deals
New Deal: 95% off the Complete Citrix Enterprise Course Bundle
A new deal is available for 95% off the Complete Citrix Enterprise Course Bundle. This bundle contains 50 hours of online courses that teach you how configure and optimize Citrix environments. These courses are normally priced at $1,008.00, this deal has been discounted 95% to $49.00.
BleepingComputer Deals August 15, 2016
08:15 AM
0
Security
New TorrentLocker (Crypt0L0cker) variant released that Encrypts files with the .ENC Extension
A new variant of the TorrentLocker ransomware, otherwise known as Crypt0L0cker, that pretends to be a bill from the Italian energy company Enel. When the ransomware is executed it will encrypt a victim's data and append the .ENC extension to encrypted files.
Lawrence Abrams August 14, 2016
10:22 AM
13
Security
PokemonGo Ransomware installs Backdoor Account and Spreads to other Drives
With the popularity of PokemonGo, it was inevitable that a malware developer would create a ransomware that impersonates it.  This is the case with a new ransomware that impersonates a PokemonGo application for Windows and includes such interesting new features such as a backdoor and spreading to removable drives.
Lawrence Abrams August 14, 2016
09:15 AM
9
Security
The Week in Ransomware - August 12 2016 - Thermostats, PokemonGo, Juicylemon, and More
This week we have 4 new ransomware infections, 1 new decryptor, and 1 new ransomware variant. Lots of development ransomware discovered, which only indicates how many criminals are getting into the ransomware game. Also, saw some interesting hacks by Pen Test Partners, where they installed ransomware on a thermostat!
Lawrence Abrams August 12, 2016
06:48 PM
2
Security, Software
Mother Horrified to Learn Hackers Put Live Feed of Daughters' Bedroom Online
A mother in Houston, Texas was horrified to learn hackers had compromised her home's security camera system and put up a live feed of her two daughters' bedroom online. Jennifer, who has requested the media not include her last name, told ABC News she found out about the feed after her friend notified her of a post she had seen on F
David Bisson August 12, 2016
06:35 PM
7
Security
New Information Stealing Trojan Steals and Uploads Corporate Files
Information theft can be very lucrative for malware developers who target companies for the theft of corporate secrets. BleepingComputer has discovered a computer infection that scans victim's computer for files containing certain file extensions and then uploads matching files to a server under the malware developer's control.
Lawrence Abrams August 12, 2016
01:48 PM
0
Microsoft, Software
Microsoft released Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 14901 for PC
Only 9 days after the Microsoft released the Windows 10 Anniversary Update, Microsoft has started pushing out new Insider Preview builds again. Yesterday, Microsoft released Windows 10 Insider Preview Build 14901 for PC to insiders on the fast ring.
Allen Lydiard August 12, 2016
10:40 AM
0
Security
With the looming threat of Ransomware, should companies stockpile Bitcoins?
With the threat of ransomware hanging over every company's head, does it make sense for companies to stockpile a few bitcoins in the event of a ransomware attack?  Getting bitcoins is not the easiest of tasks and with the a ransomware timer counting down, does it make sense to have some on hand?
Lawrence Abrams August 11, 2016
03:00 PM
8
Security, Hardware
Wireless Hack Threatens Locking System on Nearly All VW Cars Sold Since 1995
At the 25th Usenix Security Symposium, research will deliver a presentation that unveils two security vulnerabilities that together threaten the security of 100 million vehicles made by Volkswagen, Ford, and other well known car manufacturers.
David Bisson August 11, 2016
01:42 PM
2
Security
Windows Activation Scam locks your screen and doesn't Shut Up!
A new Windows Activation scam has been discovered that pretends to be a Windows Activation screen and talks to you every time you click on the screen.
These scammers then want to charge you $99.99 USD to remove the infection.
Lawrence Abrams August 10, 2016
03:30 PM
8
Security, Google, Mobile
Malicious Android Apps Use Obfuscation, Antiemulation Techniques to Avoid Detection
A set of malicious gaming applications for Android available on the Google Play Store employ obfuscation at multiple levels and antiemulation techniques to avoid detection. There are six malicious apps in total. They all advertise a different mod for Minecraft, the popular sandbox video game.
David Bisson August 10, 2016
01:00 PM
0
Security
Ransomware on Thermostats is just the Tip of the Iceberg
This past weekend at the IoT Village in the DEF CON security conference, Pen Test Partners set to out to demonstrate the sad state of security when it comes to IoT devices. They did this buy showing how they could easily hack a smart thermostat so that ransomware could be installed on it.
Lawrence Abrams August 10, 2016
10:15 AM
2
Deals
New Deal: 82% off the Linux Essentials Course Bundle
A new deal is available for 82% off the Linux Essentials Crouse Bundle. This five course course bundle provides 54 hours of professional training to bring you from a beginning Linux user to an IT Pro. This program is normally priced at $225, this deal has been discounted 82% to $39.
BleepingComputer Deals August 10, 2016
08:00 AM
0
Security, Microsoft
August 2016 Patch Tuesday includes 9 Security Updates
Today is the August 2016 Microsoft Patch Tuesday and we have nine security updates being released by Microsoft. Of these nine updates, five of them are rated as Critical as they allow remote code execution on the affected computer.
Lawrence Abrams August 09, 2016
03:52 PM
1
Security, Business
Teenager Receives 1 million airmiles from United Airlines Bug Bounty Program
United Airlines' bug bounty program awarded a 19-year-old security researcher one million airmiles for his discovery of multiple vulnerabilities. In total, Olivier reported approximately 20 vulnerabilities,
and though none of the vulnerabilities are being disclosed, he did say he
earned around 250,000 airmiles for reporting one bug
David Bisson August 09, 2016
02:02 PM
0
1133 1134 1135 1136 1137
View More
Popular Stories
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
Google patches sixth Chrome zero-day exploited in attacks this year
WatchGuard warns of critical vulnerability in Firebox firewalls
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now