Best Home Security Cameras Without Subscriptions in 2025: No-Fee Favorites - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Security Security Cameras
Best Home Security Cameras Without Subscriptions in 2025: No-Fee Favorites
If you want to avoid monthly payments for important security features like AI detection, these are my top tested picks for security cams.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Article updated on September 16, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Resolution and view
Is the resolution high enough to make out all important details and faces? Is the field of view wide enough to capture a whole room or yard, or are there pan/tilt features for large spaces?
Video storage
Can video be stored without fees? Is it local storage under your control or cloud storage? Do you have to purchase your own storage device? Can you shared stored video?
Smart home
Does the camera work with your existing home security system or your preferred voice assistant?
Object detection
Can the cam detect people, animals or vehicles without a subscription fee?
App usability
Is the app easy to understand, control and use to change settings?
Night vision
Does the camera have night vision that can cover the space you have in mind?
Two-way audio
Does the camera have the ability to listen to audio and initiate a two-way conversation using the app?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Feels like everything comes with a subscription now, huh? Even many security cameras need a plan to enable cloud video storage or upgrade AI detection for packages and faces. That's annoying when you're trying to save money and simplify your life, but other options exist.
Our Picks
Best overall home security camera with no subscription TP-Link Tapo C120 Indoor/Outdoor Cam
Jump to details
$24 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best outdoor security camera with no subscription Reolink Argus Track Cam
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best indoor security camera with no subscription Aqara Camera Hub G3
Jump to details
$90 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best video resolution security camera with no subscription Eufy Indoor Cam S350
Jump to details
$340 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best local storage home security camera with no subscription Lorex 2K Wi-Fi Floodlight Security Camera
Jump to details
$280 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best battery-powered home security camera with no subscription Blink Outdoor 4 with Sync Module 2
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
OUTDOOR SECURITY CAMERA DEALS OF THE WEEK
Blink Outdoor 4 1080p Security Camera (3-Pack):  $100 (save $160)
TP-Link Tapo C120 2K QHD Security Camera:  $25 (save $16)
Ring Spotlight Cam Plus Battery Camera (2022 Release, White, 2-Pack):  $180 (save $101)
Blink Outdoor 4 XR 2 Camera Kit With Mini 2 Camera:  $110 (save $110)
Arlo Pro 5S 2K Spotlight Camera (White, 3-Pack):  $200 (save $250) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Home Security Cameras Without Subscriptions in 2025: No-Fee Favorites
What's the best subscription-free home security camera?
What we updated
Best home security cameras without subscriptions
Best overall home security camera with no subscription
Best outdoor security camera with no subscription
Best indoor security camera with no subscription
Best video resolution security camera with no subscription
Best local storage home security camera with no subscription
Best battery-powered home security camera with no subscription
Best home security cameras without subscriptions compared
Other home security cams without subscriptions that we've tested
Factors to consider when buying a home security camera
How we test security cameras
The best home security cam placement and installation
When I test cams, I always keep my eyes open for brands that perform well and give you the important features you need without requiring a monthly subscription (or at least give you good workarounds). Other CNET reviewers have done the same, and after over 200 hours testing indoor and outdoor cams, we've found our favorites that don't need fees. These cameras still offer video storage and advanced detection options so you're not missing out. What's the best subscription-free home security camera?
This Tapo cam can fit nearly anywhere and includes local storage options. TP-Link/AmazonAfter our testing, we chose the Tapo C120 Indoor/Outdoor Cam as our top choice for a one-time purchase thanks to its higher resolution and immense versatility, combined with a very affordable price.Our list also includes pan/tilt cameras, floodlight cams, models with extra-high resolution and other important features. None of them requires the $3 to $10 monthly subscriptions to enable important features like AI object recognition or video storage. You may have to buy a microSD card, but you'll never have to worry about ongoing fees and get extra data security as a bonusAfter you’re done, consider checking out our lists of the best cheap home security cameras and best wireless cams, too. What we updatedSummer/Fall 2025: I updated the Eufy pick to Eufy's latest outdoor camera the SoloCam E42, a powerhouse with a built-in solar panel and high resolution for those who want hefty security in their home or small business.
Lorex is a popular choice for buyers who want to stay off the cloud and away from subscriptions. Lorex/AmazonBest home security cameras without subscriptions
TP-Link
Photo Gallery 1/1
TP-Link
Best overall home security camera with no subscription
TP-Link Tapo C120 Indoor/Outdoor Cam
Pros
2K resolution
Frequently found below $30
Indoor and outdoor support
Motion zone setting
Color night vision
Google and Alexa compatibility
Cons
A wired plug-in cam like this isn't the best option for outdoor use, although it is possible
You'll have to pay for a sizable microSD card, too
Why I like it:I've chosen the versatile C120 indoor/outdoor cam as the best pick for buyers who want a little of everything -- with a fairly low initial cost, too. Tapo's blend of subscription-free features (there is a Tapo plan, but it’s far from necessary) offers person recognition and onboard video storage with the purchase of a microSD card. Another advantage of the C120 is its 2K resolution -- higher than many of TP-Link’s budget models -- and its magnetic base, which makes placement easy whether you’re using it indoors or out. Just keep in mind you’ll still need a safe outlet nearby. It also comes with color night vision and compatibility with both Alexa and Google Home/Assistant. TP-Link's app also allows for a couple of neat tricks, including digital boundary lines that act as motion zones and customizable siren/light alarms.Who is this for?Buyers who want a highly versatile camera that doesn't require fees to enable important features. Who shouldn’t buy it:Those who want a more compact design or a simpler app to use.  ... Show more
Get it now
$24 at Amazon
$32 at B&H
Specs & Configurations
Video storage options
Local via microSD card (not included) or cloud storage with subscriptionResolution
2KMotion detection
Motion, people, pets, vehiclesSmart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google HomeWeather resistance
IP66
Add to compare
Reolink
Photo Gallery 1/1
Reolink
Best outdoor security camera with no subscription
Reolink Argus Track Cam
Pros
Wireless design with included solar panel
4K resolution
Zoom and tracking
Good object recognition
Color night vision
Cons
Setup requires some extra work with the solar panel
Again, a new microSD card will add to the cost
Why I like it:Reolink’s Argus Track is designed for highly efficient outdoor use. It combines a 4K cam that can easily spot details across the yard with a solar panel you can set up to keep the battery charged on this wireless model. It’s also got pan/tilt features that can track movement, color night vision and onboard storage via a microSD card slot.Those powerful features don’t require subscriptions, making this one of the best options for a no-fee outdoor camera that can detect people, vehicles and animals. While the wireless design does make it easy to place, you may have to do more work finding the right installation spot for both the cam and its solar panel, which benefits from a sunny destination.Who is this for?People who want a top-line outdoor camera they can put anywhere with a solar panel to make battery management much easier. Who shouldn’t buy it:Those who don't want to place and install an extra solar panel, or who are looking to spend under $100.
... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Video storage options
Local with microSD card (not included)Resolution
4KMotion detection
Motion, people, vehicles, animalsSmart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/AssistantWeather resistance
IP65
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best indoor security camera with no subscription
Aqara Camera Hub G3
Pros
2K resolution with pan/tilt capabilities
Great free object and sound recognition
Swift setup
Broad compatibility with Google, Alexa, and Apple HomeKit
Cons
No included microSD card
Many features won't get used without adding more senors
Why I like it:I found Aqara's hub to offer smooth performance, a very clear app view of its 2K camera (1080p continuous recording), and pan/tilt functions to cover an entire room. You also get person detection and noise detection for free, and video storage via the microSD slot. Setup proved very straightforward, too, and there's even some Apple Home compatibility along with Google and Alexa (hopefully more as the Matter standard embraces security cameras more fully).This camera also has a hidden benefit with its "hub" status. It can connect to other Aqara security sensors to transform into a mini security system if you want, without needing any additional hubs, allowing for better whole-room protection and interesting home routines. That makes features like its customizable siren even more useful. Who is this for?Those looking for a crystal clear indoor pan/tilt camera that doesn't demand fees for extras like object recognition, plus the opportunity to expand into other security sensors in the future. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who don't care about other home security compatibility, or who don't need a lot of AI identification features.
... Show more
Get it now
$90 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Video storage options
Local with microSD card (not included)Resolution
2KMotion detection
Motion, people, pets, subscription adds facial detection and gesture detectionSmart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, some Apply HomeKit functionalityWeather resistance
N/A
Add to compare
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Photo Gallery 1/1
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Best video resolution security camera with no subscription
Eufy Indoor Cam S350
Pros
4K resolution
Built-in solar panel
Pan/tilt/zoom
People/pet detection and tracking
Includes hub for local storage
Cons
Eufy's app is a bit janky
The cameras are typically only available in a two to four pack, which makes buying just one very difficult
Why I like it:Eufy has long been a reliable brand for getting important AI features like person and animal detection without the need for a subscription. Its latest 4K, pan/tilt outdoor two-pack goes another step and adds the HomeBase 3, which you can use for video storage (up to 16GB) without the need to buy a separate hub. This cam comes not only with two-way audio for talking or sounding a siren, but also a built-in solar panel. Solar panel add-ons are common for wireless cams, but Eufy has included its panel as part of the design. Find a reasonably sunny place, and the camera will be able to keep its battery charged during much of the year, saving you a step.The included HomeBase also comes with another benefit, enabling support for Google, Amazon Alexa and Apple (Apple HomeKit/Siri support is harder to find), which makes this cam a good choice for Apple fans who want some outdoor protection. Who is this for?Those looking for an extra-high-resolution pan/tilt outdoor camera that doesn't require fees to enable AI and storage, and manages its own battery life in ideal conditions.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who won't want a solar cam, users who can't stand clunky apps or additional hubs to manage.  ... Show more
Get it now
$340 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Video storage option
Local with microSD card or Eufy HomeBaseResolution
4K and 2K dual camsMotion detection
Motion, people, petsSmart home support
Apple HomeKit/Home/SiriWeather resistance
N/A
Add to compare
Lorex/Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lorex/Amazon
Best local storage home security camera with no subscription
Lorex 2K Wi-Fi Floodlight Security Camera
Pros
Customizable floodlights
2K resolution with HDR
Color night vision
Lorex includes a storage card with purchase
Cons
Expensive at around $250
Lorex's included microSD cards may be too small for active cams
Why I like it:If you’re looking to invest in a higher-end outdoor cam and don’t mind spending extra for a full suite of features when you know no subscriptions will be coming your way, Lorex has an excellent floodlight camera for looking over a large outdoor space. It offers 2K resolution, color night vision, two-way audio and an included 32GB microSD card. That’s a fairly complete package, even without the free person, vehicle and animal protection that’s also included -- or the support for Alexa and Google Assistant.But the biggest feature of this cam is the two LED floodlights. I like Lorex’s floodlight approach more than most: You can adjust the angles and set specific brightness and color temperature levels, as well as how easily they are activated. That’s a level of customization that is comparatively rare in home security lighting.Who is this for?People who want a customizable floodlight camera that doesn't come with monthly subscription requirements, buyers who don't want to buy an extra microSD card -- but don't mind paying more for a powerful camera.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who want to save money, or who already have plenty of outdoor lighting.
... Show more
Get it now
$280 at Amazon
$295 at Lorex
Specs & Configurations
Video storage options
Local via microSD card (included)Resolution
2KMotion detection
Motion, people, vehicles, animalsSmart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google AssistantWeather resistance
IP65
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best battery-powered home security camera with no subscription
Blink Outdoor 4 with Sync Module 2
Pros
Compact and wireless
Great app controls
Long battery life rated for two years
Subscription is optional with a purchased hub
Cons
Requires a hub and flash drive for no-fee video storage
No person detection without a subscription
Why I like it:Blink does offer a subscription plan with video recording and storage, but we’re adding it as an effective option because of the Sync Module 2 -- this compact, square hub connects to the Blink Outdoor 4 and allows you to plug in a USB flash drive and use it for local storage. That largely removes the need for any subscription. You still get Blink’s motion-activated alerts and incredibly easy-to-use app, so subscription fees become very optional.Otherwise, the Blink Outdoor 4 is a common recommendation of ours because of its long two-year battery life and easy wireless setup (my batteries have lasted well over a year by now). You'll miss out on outdoor person detection, which is locked behind the subscription, but otherwise this cam deserves consideration if you don’t mind purchasing a hub to work with.Who is this for?People who want an all-purpose wireless outdoor camera with batteries that last for years, preferably with a spare USB drive handy for storage.Who shouldn’t buy it:Those who can't stand managing extra hubs, or are looking for indoor cams.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
$100 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Video storage options
Local via Sync Module 2 hubResolution
1080p/HDMotion detection
Motion (Person only available with subscription)Smart home support
Amazon AlexaWeather resistance
IP65
Learn more
Blink Outdoor 4 with Sync Module 2 review
Add to compareBest home security cameras without subscriptions compared
Best security cams without subscriptionsTP-Link Tapo C120 Indoor/Outdoor CamReolink Argus Track CamEufy SoloCam E42 2-PackAqara Indoor Camera Hub G3Lorex 2K Wi-Fi Floodlight Security CameraBlink Outdoor 4 with Sync Module 2 Price $40$210$340$85.00$250$65Resolution 2K4K4K2K2K1080p/HDField of view 120 degreesNearly 360 degrees with pan/tilt360 degrees with pan/tilt360-degree pan122 degrees143 degreesPower source WiredBattery with solarBattery with solar powerWiredWiredBatteryMotion detection Motion, people, pet vehicleMotion, people, vehicles, animalsMotion, people, petsYes with person, noise, gesture and (paid) face detectionMotion, people, vehicle, animalMotion only with no subscriptionNight Vision Color night visionColor night vision32-foot night visionYesColor night visionYesAudio Two-way audioTwo-way audioTwo-way audio and sirenTwo-way audioTwo-way audioTwo-way audioStorage options Local via microSD card or cloud storage with subscriptionLocal with microSD cardHomeBase included for 15GB of local storageLocal microSD storage (card not included) or paid cloud subscriptionLocal via microSD card (included)Local via Sync Module 2 HubVoice assistant Amazon Alexa, Google HomeAmazon Alexa, Google HomeAmazon Alexa, Google, Apple HomeKit/SiriAlexa, Google Home, Apple Siri (for some features)Amazon Alexa, Google HomeAmazon AlexaReview score N/AN/AN/AN/A (but soon)N/AN/A
Other home security cams without subscriptions that we've tested
Tyler Lacoma/CNETTP-Link Tapo C210: This is one of our favorite affordable cameras at the moment, but we prefer cameras with slightly better specs that also come with local storage, including more advanced Tapo models. Blink Mini 2: The Blink Mini 2 has a surprising amount of features for its small size and affordable price (plus outdoor compatibility), but it's a little too short range and the required Sync Module 2 for local storage greatly increases the price.Google Nest Indoor/Outdoor cam: Nest doesn't have any local storage options, and the 3 hours of video storage means you need to act quickly, so it's a complicated compromise for those who want to avoid subscriptions altogether. We went with simpler, local storage approaches for this list, but still recommend this camera for Nest fans.Google Nest Doorbell: The Nest Doorbell is an excellent device that greatly benefits from Google AI and Nest's high-quality construction. However, it doesn't have any local storage, so you'll have to stick to that 3-hour limit.Lorex 2K Indoor Pan/Tilt Camera: This Lorex cam is an excellent local storage alternative, but ultimately we chose the floodlight model for its great outdoor usability. TP-Link Tapo C310: The C310 makes a fine outdoor camera ready for a microSD card, but we found Tapo's indoor/outdoor camera a little more useful for the average person.
Factors to consider when buying a home security camera
Ring's battery cam is on the higher-end but offers a versatile, weather resistance option to watch kids wherever they are. CNET/Tyler LacomaVideo quality and viewWe always pay attention to resolution and field of view for home security cameras. Checking detail, up close and at a distance, is very important for live views and the quality of recorded video. It's important to pay attention not only to resolution numbers and how wide the field of view is, but whether a brand locks higher resolutions behind a subscription (some do). Video storageVideo storage refers to how easily video can be recorded and shared, typically either in the cloud or locally through an attached hub/hard drive. Cloud storage is almost always locked behind a subscription, except in rare cases like Google Nest and some others. Local storage is generally a better way to avoid subscriptions and still get this important quality-of-life feature.
Chris Monroe/CNETSmart home integrationSmart home support for voice assistants (Siri, Alexa, Google Assistant) or platforms like Google Home or Apple Home aren't often locked behind subscriptions: What you see in the specs is what you get. That can be limited to a single platform (Amazon likes to keep its devices focused on Alexa for now) or spread out between several platforms. If you already use a voice assistant or a full smart home security system, look for a camera that's compatible with it.Object detection accuracyObject detection, like recognizing packages or human-shaped beings approaching, is another feature often locked behind a subscription. Some cameras offer free object detection. Eufy uses human detection for many of its cams, TP-Link Tapo cams offer some free detection and several Lorex cams provide package and people detection.
Eufy's cam settings, once found, provide many different ways to customize the camera.  Screenshot by Tyler Lacoma/CNETApp usabilityHigh-quality secure cams come with apps that are intuitive with settings that are easy to manage. It's also a big bonus if they don't have constant pop-ups telling you to sign up for a subscription.Night visionWe always take a close look at night vision and its distance to make sure that it's working properly and offers plenty of utility for capturing images on the other side of your yard or room.Two-way audio Two-way audio features help scare away intruders, talk to strangers or tell the kids to get inside for dinner. They're always free, but we take a close look at their quality and range, too. Installation requirementsSecurity cameras typically have wall and/or shelf mounts depending on how you'd like to place them. Sometimes you have to order a wall or shelf mount separately, so have a good idea of how you want to place the camera first. Many wall mounts require you to drill the mount in, but some do come with adhesive mounts, which need to be placed on a smooth, clean surface or they will fail. A drill and screwdriver is usually all you need for a screw-in mount. Weather resistanceIf your camera is going to be outdoors at all, you should look for a cam that has IP ratings, preferably IP65 or higher. That indicates dust and water resistance that is sufficient for outdoor use in most cases. If it gets very hot or very cold where you live, check the operating temperature range too, before you buy.
How we test security cameras
Aqara's camera provides a highly customizable, expandable indoors security option. Tyler Lacoma/CNETOur experts follow a complete testing process that examines how all the features on a home security camera function. We walk through these features with a number of visual and audio experiments to see how cams match their claims -- and the capability of comparative models. There’s a lot that goes into this process, and you can catch plenty more details over at our guide on how we test.Setup and installationWhile we have a lot experience setting up cameras, we still pay close attention at this stage and consider if the average users would have trouble setting up the cam, connecting it, mounting it on a wall and similar steps. We look for clear instructions, multiple mounting options and designs that are easy to understand and manually adjust. This is also a great time to insert our own microSD cards and check out local storage management, since we won't be using cloud storage with these no-subscription cameras. Image qualityOur tests include live view and recording examinations of image quality compared to the stated resolution and similar resolutions from other cameras. This is also where we examine the lens and field of view, any pan/tilt features and how well the night vision functions work in dark rooms or yards, usually out to about 30 feet or more.
Tapo's app showing the ability to disable notifications. Screenshot by Tyler Lacoma/CNETSensor and AI testingToday's cameras come with motion and sound detection and object recognition for a variety of things, usually people and animals. We run scenarios that test out these sensors to see what alerts we get, how accurate they are and if there's any frustrating latency or delays. App UI and settingsAs we use the apps and adjust settings for the features I mentioned above, we also look for an intuitive app design that's easy to learn and gets you where you want quickly with snappy menus. Cluttered apps, confusing menus and apps with lots of advertisements get lower scores.
Security cameras benefit from adjustable lights. LorexLights, cams and actionMost security cameras have two-way audio, and many have spotlights or floodlights. We test these features in real time, adjust brightness and volume, and see how they perform. That's especially important when testing audio in outdoor weather, for example.
The best home security cam placement and installation
Solar panels are a minor installation that can save a lot of camera hassle. CNET/Tyler LacomaPlacing a home security camera is one of the hardest decisions today's DIY cameras require. Every home is different, so you'll need to customize the location to get the best angle to capture a room or yard. Sometimes central locations are best for pan/tilt cameras or a high shelf for an overview. For installation, we like the stability of a screw-in mount or the versatility of a horizontal surface. For more, take a look at our guide on the best spots to install home security cameras.
Security camera FAQs
What features are locked behind home security camera subscriptions?
That can vary from subscription to subscription, but there are expectations in common. Companies like Ring, Arlo and others lock their cloud video storage features in subscriptions, and while there are sometimes local workarounds, they’re rarely convenient or cheap. Advanced object detection is frequently accessed only through subscriptions, as are “rich” notifications and alerts that provide more detail about what’s happening. Certain video features, like extended live views, snapshot timelapses or home/away modes, can also be trapped in subscriptions.More advanced subscriptions typically expand the plan for multiple devices and may add professional home monitoring and AI detection with better alerts. Arlo, for example, unlocks customized objection detection and AI video searches at higher tiers.
How much do microSD cards cost for a security camera?
They’re getting more affordable all the time. You can find a 256GB (a massive amount of storage for a home security camera) microSD card for under $20 these days. Smaller cards will cost significantly less, around $10 or less, but you may have to delete videos more often with them.
Do cameras offer free cloud video storage?
If you like keeping and accessing your video in the cloud, you’ll probably have to pay a subscription. Free cloud storage does exist, but it’s hard to find. Google’s Nest cams offer free video storage for 3 hours, but you’ll need to act within that timeframe to save the video, so you’ll need to check alerts fast. Currently, we don't know of any other cameras that have free video storage like this, but most will offer a monthly trial of their cloud services so you can see how they work.
How fast does local video storage fill up for a security camera?
That depends how often and long it records. A 32GB card like the one Lorex provides in some cams can record for a few hours at 1080p, much less at higher resolutions. Upgrading to a larger card means you don’t have to worry about deleting videos as often. Keep in mind, cameras only record video on activation, usually by motion detection, so you can manage activation by adjusting your motion sensitivity if you want to cut down on the number of videos that get uploaded.
What is NAS?
NAS stands for network-attached storage and is often used in conjunction with NVR, or network video recorder. An NVR is similar to a DVR, except it records footage from your cams. NAS storage like this is typically used for large security systems with an array of cams that record a lot of footage and need a central database to store and view it. An NVR isn’t necessary for the average home security system with local storage. Some may consider it for off-the-grid security or security systems that never need to connect to the internet.
What are the best security cameras without a subscription?
Look at our recommendations to see picks from brands known for nonsubscription cameras. Top brands include Tapo, Reolink, Lorex and Eufy, which all focus on on-board storage options (although many do have cloud subscriptions if you change your mind).
What's the difference between cloud storage and local storage for security cameras?
Cloud storage loads videos up to servers managed by security companies. That generally makes it easier to manage and sort videos, take advantage of AI video searches and upload as many clips as you want without worrying about storage limits. It also makes it easier to download and share videos as needed. But you have to pay a monthly fee, usually $3 to $10. Local storage is more private and doesn't require fees, but you need to buy a separate hub or microSD card, and you'll have to occasionally delete videos or arrange settings so videos auto-delete after a certain time.
Can I access my security camera remotely without a subscription?
Yes. Nonsubscription cameras still connect to Wi-Fi and enable remote control without a subscription. It's very rare for any brand to lock live views and basic alerts behind a subscription.
Do subscription-free cameras have person/package detection?
That varies, but they usually do and all our picks have basic AI detection like this. However, it's not usually as comprehensive or accurate as the type of detection that you get with a subscription service. Some detection, like facial recognition, is always locked behind a paywall.
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Home Security Guides
Security Cameras
Best Home Security Camera
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Cheap Home Security Cameras
Best Indoor Home Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbell Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells
Best Nanny Cams
Arlo Pro 4 Review
Ring Alarm Pro Review
Security Services
Best Home Security System
Best Home Security for Renters
Best Cheap Home Security Systems
Best DIY Home Security Systems
Vivint Home Security Review
Simplisafe vs. Ring
ADT Home Security Review
ADT vs. Vivint
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.