Research specialist in integrated photonics job with Chalmers University of Technology - MC2 | 12845119
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Research specialist in integrated photonics
Employer
Chalmers University of Technology - MC2
Location
Gothenburg (Stad), Västra Götaland (SE)
Salary
Permanent full-time employment
Closing date
15 Nov 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Physics
Job Type
Researcher
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
We are seeking a Research Specialist for a permanent full-time position to join our integrated photonics research environment at the Department of Microtechnology and Nanoscience at Chalmers University of Technology. In this role, you will use your scientific expertise to strengthen and support ongoing research activities, contributing to shared projects and fostering collaboration across the laboratory and department.
This position offers the opportunity to be deeply involved in world-class research and to play a central role in advancing our experimental methods and laboratory capabilities.
The department and research environment
The Department of Microtechnology and Nanoscience conducts leading research in photonics, quantum technologies, microwave engineering, and nanofabrication, supported by the in-house Nanofabrication Laboratory – one of Europe’s most advanced cleanroom facilities.
Within the department, the ultrafast integrated photonics laboratory is a dynamic and collaborative research group working in areas such as silicon photonics, ultrafast photonics, and fiber-optic communications. Our research benefits from state-of-the-art facilities for the design, fabrication, and characterization of nanoscale photonic devices.
This recruitment is closely aligned with the recently launched META-PIX Centre, funded by the Swedish Research Council, which focuses on integrated photonics and its applications in data centers, quantum technologies, and advanced optical systems.
Job description
We are looking for a Research Specialist to provide advanced technical and methodological support in integrated photonics by developing and implementing experimental methods, maintaining and improving laboratory facilities, and collaborating closely with researchers, PhD students, and external partners.
As a Research Specialist in integrated photonics, you will:
Provide technical and methodological support by developing and implementing new experimental methods and processes, while maintaining and improving cleanroom and laboratory facilities relevant to integrated photonics.
Train and support staff and students in the safe and effective use of equipment and methods.
Participate in collaborative research projects and assist in reporting results to internal and external partners.
Contribute to the preparation of grant applications and project documentation that support the laboratory’s research activities.
Qualifications
We are seeking candidates with:
A PhD in a relevant field (e.g. silicon photonics) awarded no more than 7 years prior to the application deadline (exceptions for parental leave or military service apply).
Documented experience in experimental nanophotonics, including cleanroom-based fabrication of photonic components.
Peer-reviewed publications in leading journals in the field of photonics.
Excellent communication skills in English, both written and oral.
Strong collaborative skills and the ability to work in multidisciplinary teams..
Merits
Experience training others in technical methods or equipment use (pedagogical training is an advantage).
Familiarity with a wide range of photonic integration technologies and characterization techniques
Experience in collaborative research projects with academic and industrial partners
For a full description of the qualification requirements for a Research Specialist position at Chalmers, please consult our Appointment regulations, Chapter 8.2.
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Send job
Apply on website
(This will open in a new window from which you will be automatically redirected to an external site after 5 seconds)
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Assistant Professor of Biology/Institute of Neuroscience
Eugene, Oregon
Assistant Professor in Microbiology
State College, Pennsylvania
Neurobiology Tenure Track Faculty Position
State College, Pennsylvania
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software