I Tested the Galaxy S25 FE, and Its Software Is What Stands Out, Not the Lower Price - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechMobile Phones
I Tested the Galaxy S25 FE, and Its Software Is What Stands Out, Not the Lower Price
Review: There's nothing wrong with the Galaxy S25 FE, but savvy shoppers have so many value-filled options that might be a better fit for less money.
Article updated on September 25, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Mike Sorrentino
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Mike Sorrentino Senior Editor Mike Sorrentino is a Senior Editor for Mobile, covering phones, texting apps and smartwatches -- obsessing about how we can make the most of them. Mike also keeps an eye out on the movie and toy industry, and outside of work enjoys biking and pizza making. Expertise Phones |Texting apps | iOS | Android | Smartwatches | Fitness trackers | Mobile accessories | Gaming phones | Budget phones | Toys | Star Wars | Marvel | Power Rangers | DC | Mobile accessibility | iMessage | WhatsApp | Signal | RCS
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
7.5/ 10
SCORE Samsung Galaxy S25 FE
Pros
Same One UI 8 experience as Galaxy S25 at lower price
Same slim shape as the S25 Plus
Fast charging with good battery life
Cons
Scratches easily
Gets warm to the touch on intensive tasks
Mixed photography performance
Table of Contents
I Tested the Galaxy S25 FE, and Its Software Is What Stands Out, Not the Lower Price
Galaxy S25 FE design, battery, performance
30-minute wired charging test
YouTube streaming drain test
CNET's 45-minute battery endurance test
Benchmark testing: 3D Mark Wild Life Extreme, Geekbench 6.0
Galaxy S25 FE cameras
Galaxy S25 FE: Bottom line
How we test phones
When I needed to negotiate with my internet provider after seeing a sudden $30 price hike, Samsung's $650 Galaxy S25 FE sure came in handy. The phone's AI suite -- which in this case includes Samsung's Text Call feature -- allowed me to skip the awful voice-activated menus of Astound Broadband that never seem to understand me. Instead, I could text my way through these menus, and Samsung's own robotic voice would do the talking for me, saving my eardrums from listening to repetitive voice dialogs. This isn't the first time this has happened, and the possibility is even highlighted in CNET's review of Astound Broadband. But that doesn't make it any less horrifying to see my internet bill had increased from $61 to $91 with little warning.When I started testing the Galaxy S25 FE two weeks ago, I did not expect Text Call to be the feature that I was going to spotlight, but having access to this and other flagship-level features for less than the $799 Galaxy S25 has always been a key selling point for the FE series.
Texting Astound my intention to cancel my service with the Galaxy S25 FE's text call feature is much easier than praying for the voice activated menu to understand me. Mike Sorrentino/CNETIn this case, thanks to Text Call, I didn't need to pick up the phone until the app started transcribing the representative. I then turned off Text Call and spoke with a human who lowered my internet bill back to a lower price.It's these software features that are the main reason to pick up the Galaxy S25 FE, because otherwise the phone has noticeable trade-offs that place it a clear step below the more expensive flagship. But that's not necessarily a bad thing because the S25 FE provides an experience that's similar to buying 2024's Galaxy S24.
Watch this: Galaxy S25 FE Review: Samsung's Software Lifts Up This Entry-Level Galaxy
05:01
You get a still solid-performing processor inside a body similar to the Galaxy S25 Plus. This means apps launch quickly, some games like Fortnite play well at high graphics settings, and the phone should be fast enough to do these things for years to come, even though it's not running on the latest hardware.All in all, this should make the Galaxy S25 FE a very solid upgrade if coming from the S21 FE, especially if you're loyal to Galaxy phones. But if you aren't, there are a lot of similar phones that cost less than the S25 FE right now, and they might even be a better fit for your needs.
The Galaxy S25 FE ships with Android 16 and Samsung's One UI 8 overlay. Mike Sorrentino/CNETGalaxy S25 FE design, battery, performance Building on my first impressions of the Galaxy S25 FE, the most noticeable upgrade is its max 45-watt wired charging speed. It's not the fastest available for the price range -- the $550 Motorola Edge (2025) and $400 Moto G Stylus support up to 68-watt speeds for instance -- but it's a noticeable bump from the 25-watt to 30-watt speeds seen on prior Galaxy phones that cost $800 and less. In CNET's 30-minute wired charging test, the S25 FE's battery recharged from 0% to 69% in 30 minutes, which is faster than both the Google Pixel 9A and Samsung Galaxy S25 Plus (these also support a 45-watt charging speed.)30-minute wired charging test
30 min. fast charging test (charging speed/result) Samsung Galaxy S25 FE 45W; 0% to 69%Google Pixel 9A 45W; 0% to 46% Motorola Edge (2025) 68W; 0 to 65%Samsung Galaxy S25 30W; 0% to 47%
The S25 FE also supports the Qi2 standard with a 15-watt wireless charging speed, which recharged from 0% to 17% in our 30-minute wireless charging test. Like the other Galaxy S25 phones, the FE doesn't have the Qi2 magnetic profile, but you can take advantage of magnetic accessories with a third-party case. At this time, Samsung isn't selling first-party magnet cases for the FE like it did for the other Galaxy S25 phones.While the FE has a 4,900-mAh battery, one that Samsung touts as the biggest it's included in an FE model, I found my day-to-day battery life to be fairly average. Most of my days would have the battery down to about 30% following 4 hours of screen time, which included a mix of texting, websites, games, video calls and a lot of YouTube. This puts the phone squarely into the territory of getting comfortably through a day of use without needing an overnight charge, but you should probably plug it in while getting ready the next day.In CNET's battery drain tests, the S25 FE performed averagely for its price. It depleted from a full battery to 83% after 3 hours of streaming a YouTube video at full brightness. YouTube streaming drain test
YouTube streaming drain test starting at 100% Samsung Galaxy S25 FE 1 hr: 96%; 2 hr: 89%; 3 hr: 83% (120Hz)Google Pixel 9A 1 hr: 96%; 2 hr: 85%; 3 hr: 78% (60 - 120Hz)Motorola Edge (2025) 1 hr: 98%; 2hr: 92%; 3hr: 86% (120Hz)Samsung Galaxy S25 1 hr: 96%; 2 hr: 90%; 3 hr: 85% (1-120Hz)
And it went from 100% to 92% during a 45-minute endurance test featuring a mix of video streaming, gaming and social media scrolling. These measurements are comparable to the more expensive Galaxy S25, so it's good to see that choosing the cheaper model doesn't mean you'll cheap out on battery life.CNET's 45-minute battery endurance test
45 min battery endurance Samsung Galaxy S25 FE 100% to 92%Google Pixel 9A 100% to 95%OnePlus 13R 100% to 97%Samsung Galaxy S25 100% to 93%
The phone's oleophobic coating feels cheap, which somehow scratched up in my pocket after just two days of use. I had a similar complaint with the Galaxy Z Flip 7 FE -- which was more of a fingerprint magnet -- and so I'd say that FE owners would be best served by getting a case and screen protector as soon as possible.The Galaxy S25 FE has the Exynos 2400 processor, which was also seen on the Z Flip 7 FE. I have mixed feelings about the Exynos 2400 after using it on two different FE phones. On one hand, it's very capable of intensive tasks like gaming, AI, and low-light photo processing, and I have no issues at all multitasking with it. However, I do find it runs warmer than I prefer, especially during video calls or when I play Fortnite at high graphics settings. This is another issue that can be alleviated with a case, but is worth calling out for anyone who prefers not to use one.Benchmark testing: 3D Mark Wild Life Extreme, Geekbench 6.0
3DMark Wild Life ExtremeGeekbench 6.0
Samsung Galaxy S25 FE 4,078; 24.42fpsSingle: 2,118; Multi: 6,819Google Pixel 9A 2,636; 15.79 fpsSingle: 1,678; Multi: 4,294Motorola Edge (2025) 1,019; 6.16fpsSingle: 1,023; Multi: 2,830Samsung Galaxy S25 6,496; 38.9fpsSingle: 2,999; Multi: 9,604
Aside from not featuring the latest and greatest specs, you likely wouldn't be able to tell the difference between the Galaxy S25 FE and the Galaxy S25 Plus by looking at it. If anything, it creates a bit of an issue for someone looking for a cheaper Galaxy phone with the smaller dimensions of the Galaxy S25, but that has a 6.3-inch display. Since there isn't a "mini" Galaxy S25 FE, it's possible that someone looking for a smaller flagship might want to turn to last year's Galaxy S24, which you can still buy new for $545 on Amazon.
Mike Sorrentino/CNETGalaxy S25 FE camerasSamsung's FE models typically skimp on cameras, but I'm quite happy with photos and videos taken on the Galaxy S25 FE.Starting off with the good, this sunset photo I took on the waterfront with the wide-angle lens in New York's West Village came out spectacular. There's the twinge of orange, the ripples of the water and only a smidge of noticeable image noise in the darker portions of the sky and in the darkness of the walking path on the right of the photo.
Taken with the wide lens on the Galaxy S25 FE. Mike Sorrentino/CNETI took the phone to my 20th high school reunion, and considering this was a crowded and dark event set at the Dublin Deck in Patchogue, New York, my photos of alumni at the bar along with videos taken of the cover band, fared reasonably well. There is some blurriness, but these are challenging environments for any phone.
Taken on the Galaxy S25 FE's wide lens. Mike Sorrentino/CNETThe Galaxy S25 FE uses a 50-megapixel wide-angle camera, a 12-megapixel ultrawide and an 8-megapixel telephoto with a 3x optical zoom. And in my examples with more ideal lighting than the high school reunion, the S25 FE's photos have a lot of detail and bold colors. This photo of a chicken alla vodka sub from Mama's Too in New York's West Village, zoomed closely using the telephoto camera at 3x zoom, shows the drippiness of the sauce and the cheese for instance. Some of the sandwich's detail is softer due to noise reduction that the phone likely applied.
Taken with the Galaxy S25 FE's telephoto lens. Mike Sorrentino/CNETDespite being taken in sunlight, I noticed the Galaxy S25 FE struggled a bit with this wide-angle photo of my friend's dog, Mel. It focuses on Mel's face, but the rest of Mel is blurrier than I'd prefer, considering the availability of light and the phone's processing power. Still, it's a nice photo, though.
Taken on the Galaxy S25 FE's wide camera. Mike Sorrentino/CNETSelfie photos taken on the 12-megapixel front-facing camera were also mixed, depending on the lighting situation. I took a twilight selfie by the waterfront in New York's West Village using both the Galaxy S25 FE and the $550 Motorola Edge. The Edge has a 50-megapixel selfie camera, and it did a clearly better job at rendering both me and the water behind me. The S25 FE's selfie, by comparison, has a blurry look on the water behind me. Which is unfortunate, as it's the same lovely looking water as the earlier photo I took with the wide-angle camera.
Taken on the Galaxy S25 FE's front-facing camera. Mike Sorrentino/CNET
Taken on the Motorola Edge's front-facing camera. Mike Sorrentino/CNETThe S25 FE's front-facing camera does much better in broad daylight. This photo, taken at my friend's Oktoberfest party, shows a lot of the details on my face and hair, for instance.
Taken on the Galaxy S25 FE's front-facing camera. Mike Sorrentino/CNETThe S25 FE is one of the cheaper phones available right now that can shoot video at 8K resolution at 30 frames per second and 4K resolution at 60fps. The actual quality of the video mirrors the photos, although my 4K/60fps footage taken of the cover band at my high school reunion renders very smoothly. It's worth noting that there are fewer available options when shooting in 8K over 4K, including a reduced zoom range.You also get access to Samsung's Galaxy AI features for touching up photos, which include sketch to image for adding photo-realistic items into a photo or removing unwanted objects for a photo with the space filled in by AI based on the surrounding environment.
Mike Sorrentino/CNETGalaxy S25 FE: Bottom lineThe Galaxy S25 FE will be a particularly good fit for two different audiences: people moving up from more budget-minded devices like the Galaxy A or Moto G phone series, and people moving over from a device like the Galaxy S21 FE or earlier. These two groups will see the biggest upgrades if they move to the Galaxy S25 FE without having to spend $800 for the base Galaxy S25.But outside of those fields, there are a lot of options right now. If you're looking for a smaller phone in this price range, for instance, last year's Galaxy S24 has many of the same features as the Galaxy S25 FE and runs faster on Qualcomm's Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 chip. And if you're coming from an iPhone and are Android-curious, yet skeptical about spending $800 or more, you could save money by getting the $499 Google Pixel 9A for Android 16, or the $550 Motorola Edge for its camera system and fast charging. Or you could stick with Apple with the $599 iPhone 16E or the recently discounted $699 iPhone 16. And that could be Samsung's biggest hurdle with the $650 Galaxy S25 FE. It's an all-around good value for the price, but right now there's a lot of competition in the space.How we test phonesEvery phone tested by CNET's reviews team was actually used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP-rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions from bright sunlight to dark indoor scenes. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether that phone, whatever price it is, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
MIKE SORRENTINO
Senior Editor Mike Sorrentino is a Senior Editor for Mobile, covering phones, texting apps and smartwatches -- obsessing about how we can make the most of them. Mike also keeps an eye out on the movie and toy industry, and outside of work enjoys biking and pizza making.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.