Best Robot Lawn Mowers: After Testing Mowers for Weeks I Discovered the 4 Worth Buying - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Yard & Outdoors
Best Robot Lawn Mowers: After Testing Mowers for Weeks I Discovered the 4 Worth Buying
I put six of the best-known robot lawn mowers through intensive testing in my backyard for over a month. Here are the four I recommend.
Our Experts
Written by
Adam Doud
Article updated on September 18, 2025 at 4:00 PM PDT
Adam Doud CNET Contributor Adam has been a leader in the tech media field for over a decade, with bylines at a number of different publications. When he's not hosting the Benefit of the Doud podcast, he's busy getting his hands on as many phones, tablets and laptops as possible. He regularly uses both iOS and Android (six-month rotation for each), and he fully embraces technology. He hasn't carried cash money since 2018, and pays for everything with his phone wherever possible. Expertise Portable power stations |
Consumer electronics | Computing | Yard & Outdoor | EVs
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Just like a robot vacuum, a good robot lawn mower can save you time and money by autonomously mowing your lawn. I spent the past six weeks testing six robot lawnmowers in my 3,000 square foot yard to find out if they are indeed worth the price compared with mowing your own lawn or hiring a lawn care service.
Our Picks
Best overall and best for large lawns Segway Navimow X390
Jump to details
$4,999 at Segway
Jump to details
Best ease of use Eufy E15
Jump to details
$1,399.99 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best affordable and best for medium sized lawns Sunseeker X3 Plus
Jump to details
$1,199 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best design and best for straighter lawns Husqvarna Automower 410 iQ
Jump to details
$2,999 at Amazon
Jump to details
YARD AND OUTDOORS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Beatbot AquaSense 2 Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $1,099 (save $500)
Traeger Grills Pro 22 Electric Wood Pellet Grill and Smoker:  $389 (save $161)
Ego Power Plus LM2135SP Self-Propelled Cordless Electric Lawn Mower:  $599 (save $151)
Aiper Scuba S1 Cordless Robotic Pool Cleaner:  $500 (save $200)
Karcher K1700 2125-PSI 1.46-GPM Pressure Washer:  $173 (save $58) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Robot Lawn Mowers: After Testing Mowers for Weeks I Discovered the 4 Worth Buying
What’s the best robot lawnmower?
The 4 best robot lawnmowers
Best overall and best for large lawns
Best ease of use
Best affordable and best for medium sized lawns
Best design and best for straighter lawns
What we updated
What's new with robot lawn mowers in 2025?
Robot lawn mowers compared
Other robot lawn mowers we’ve tested
Factors to consider when buying a robot lawn mower
How robot lawn mowers work
Robot lawn mowers vs. traditional mowers
From navigation tech to cutting performance on wet grass, I evaluated every aspect of these automated yard assistants with an eye toward future developments. I also spoke with industry experts from Husqvarna (a robot lawn mower manufacturer) and Automatic about how to evaluate which robot lawn mowers are best. I ended up with two overall favorites, two that worked well and two that never worked quite right, but I'm planning on retesting later. Read on to find the perfect robot mower for your specific yard and needs. What’s the best robot lawnmower?The Segway Navimow earns the crown for the best robot lawn mowers we’ve tested. It’s small, fast and offers spiked wheels for easy driving. It was one of the easiest robot lawnmowers to set up and use, with a straightforward app and the ability to edit the map easily, allowing it to work with most yard sizes. Despite some issues with the camera system, it handled all the bread-and-butter tasks of robot mowing with consistent mowing performance and the ability to climb hills and navigate obstacles. It’s expensive, though, running $5,000 at full price. If you want a cheaper option, the Eufy E15 is one of the few robot mowers that I got working out of the box within 20 minutes. It’ll cost you $1,800 at full price, and while it has the slimmest cutting radius and a simpler navigation system, it more than makes up for it with its performance and ease of use.The 4 best robot lawnmowers
Photo Gallery 1/3
Best overall and best for large lawns
Segway Navimow X390
8.5
/10
SCORE
Pros
Easy setup and user-friendly app
Moves fast with spiked wheels
Excellent terrain navigation and the ability to free itself
Great battery life, did my entire lawn and my neighbors on a single charge with over 50% left
Cons
Camera system was easily fooled by dandelions and grass with small leaves
Cables aren't as long as you'll want
Expensive at $5,000
Best for:The Segway Navimow is the best robot lawnmower for people with large yards. It’s relatively easy to set up and covers a huge area on a single charge. This model is definitely for people with larger lawns. Using a mower like this in an urban setting might be overkill. The mower was also the easiest with an RTK beacon to set up and use, which is a nice bonus. An RTK (or Real-Time Kinematic) beacon is a device that corrects a mower's coordinates so it can get accuracy down to a centimeter. Why we recommend it: The Segway Navimow X390 is my favorite mower, by a slim margin over the much cheaper Eufy E15. The mower is small and fast with spiked wheels for easy driving. It smartly negotiates difficult terrain, which doesn't sound like much. But not only does it climb hills well, but when it gets stuck, it uses a variety of techniques to get back underway. You can really tell that Segway put a lot of thought into how the mower can free itself.The app is easy to use and set up. Adding to and editing the map is very straightforward. The one hiccup I had from a software perspective was getting the mower to mow the area I wanted it to when I accidentally assigned it to the wrong space. Convincing the mower to do something else was tricky. The initial cut the Segway makes left tufts of grass uncut, which was not the best. A second trip around the lawn largely corrected things, but I was hoping for better results on the first pass.All that being said, the Segway quickly became my favorite mower of the pack. Yes, this particular model is by far the most expensive in the list at $5,000 full price, but Navimow sent its biggest mower. There are smaller mowers in the X series that should perform as well. The software is intuitive, the mower itself is attractive and I ran into the fewest issues when running it. It's an easy recommendation.Who shouldn’t get it: If there's one large flaw with this mower it's the camera system. My part of Illinois has a type of grass that can grow seeds and small leaves at the top of it (if it gets long enough). Dandelions are also problematic. The issue I ran into was the mower refused to mow those things half the time. I imagine the camera system might have mistaken them for plant beds, which is fair, but I don't think it's asking too much for my lawn mower to recognize, you know, lawn. If you have a smaller yard, you may also be better served by the Eufy E15 or Sunseeker X3 Plus.  ... Show more
Get it now
$4,999 at Segway
$4,999 at eBay
Specs & Configurations
Price
$4,999Maximum yard size
0.3 acresCutting width
8 inchesCutting height range
2-4 inchesNavigation
RTKMax slope
30 degreesCharge time
90 minutesNoise level
59 decibels
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/4
Best ease of use
Eufy E15
8.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
No RTK beacon allows for an easy setup
Smart software that’s easy to use
Quick and effortless cutting with good efficiency
Affordable at under $2,000
Cons
Can’t set a no-go zone without a physical barrier
Has some trouble with obstacles
Doesn't work at night due to lack of visual data
Best for:This mower is good for people who don't want to mess with an RTK beacon or satellite coverage. The mower relies on vision sensors to determine its position, rather than an RTK beacon, which means it's dead simple to set up. The mower is also very efficient, though it has the slimmest cutting radius of all the mowers (tied with the Sunseeker below), so it will take longer to complete a larger yard. The biggest challenge with this mower is if you don't have any kind of barrier between your property and your neighbor's, like a sidewalk, fence, or driveway, the mower may inadvertently wander off your property, so keep that in mind. Normally priced $1,700 (currently $1,500 on sale), it's also affordable. Why we recommend it:It's easy to love the Eufy E15 mower because, within 20 minutes of taking it out of the box, it was already mapping out my lawn. Less than an hour later, it was mowing, and it finished its first pass almost flawlessly. When it had trouble, the app quickly let me know, and it even suggested setting up no-go zones on the fly wherever it ran into trouble. The cutting was quick and effortless, with good results. Cutting efficiency is excellent -- this mower didn't leave anything untouched.The reason this mower is so simple is that it doesn't use an RTK beacon to correct its GPS coordinates. The Eufy E15 has a standard GPS receiver (with accuracy down to a few feet) and supplements that with visual data to determine its position. That means two things. First, it cannot run at night because there is no visual data. Second, if there is no physical barrier between your property and your neighbors -- a fence, sidewalk and so on -- the mower may wander out of its zone The mower works more like a robot vacuum -- you do not set up a barrier or a perimeter. You just set the robot loose and let it wander around and see what's what. Once it's done, it mows. It's ridiculously simple and if you have barriers between your property and your neighbor's, this is the mower to buy. If not, it's probably possible to set up one large no-go zone to keep it from going where it shouldn't but with a neighbor as… colorful as mine, that was not a risk I was willing to take. So if you want something dead simple to set up and use, and your lawn meets the right requirements, this is the easy choice.Who shouldn’t get it: If you have a big yard, the Eufy E15 isn’t going to be the best fit. It’s better suited for a small yard like mine (3,000 square feet). It’s also not a good option if being able to set a no-go zone to keep it out of your neighbor's property, since that’s not something it can do without a physical barrier to contain it. It also won’t work at night since it relies on visual data.   ... Show more
Get it now
$1,399.99 at Amazon
See at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Price
$1,799Maximum yard size
0.2 acre (800 sq m)Cutting width
8 inchesCutting height range
1-3 inchesNavigation
GPS+CameraMax slope
18 degreesCharge time
90-110 minutesNoise level
56 decibels
Add to compare
Adam Doud/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
Adam Doud/CNET
Best affordable and best for medium sized lawns
Sunseeker X3 Plus
7.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Small and adorable design
Easy to set up
Easy app navigation
Comparatively inexpensive at $1,600 full price
Cons
Small cutting path at 8 inches
Bump sensor rather than more advanced obstacle navigation
Best for:The Sunseeker X3 Plus is an adorable mower, like the Eufy E15, so it's not meant for larger lawns. The bump sensor can be a bonus for yards with a lot of obstacles, but it can be troublesome because of how low it sits to the ground. If you have thicker grass, that can get annoying quickly and leave sections uncut. If you have consistent grass coverage and no thicker patches, you'll probably be OK. This model is best for people with medium-sized lawns and especially those with no barriers at property lines.Why we recommend it:The Sunseeker X3 is an adorable little robot mower with an unusual configuration. While most robot mowers have drive wheels in the back and omnidirectional wheels in the front, Sunseeker goes the other way with drive wheels in the front. I find this provides a more stable platform for the mower overall, which is a nice add on. But this mower has one not insignificant flaw.Like most robot vacuums, this mower has a bump sensor in front. That's not a bad thing, but this bump sensor is very sensitive -- so much so that larger tufts of grass will trip it. This tends to leave portions of the lawn unmowed, which is, obviously, undesirable. The mower also has cameras in front, which makes the inclusion of a bump sensor a bit confounding. Beyond that, the mower performs well, and it's worth noting that robot mowers in general aren't meant for cutting long grass -- they're meant to maintain short grass. The bump sensor can still be tripped by shorter grass though. Sure, it's also tripped by things it should not try to mow, like brick borders and the like, but the bump sensor is so low to the ground it becomes maddening. This is even more of a problem during initial setup and even after a few turns around the lawn, so it doesn't quite make it as our favorite.Who shouldn’t get it: If you have a big lawn, the Sunseeker X3 is another robot mower that won’t work for you. It works great on small lawns like mine that measure around 3,000 square feet. But for a bigger one, you’ll want the Segway Navimow X390. It also struggles with cutting longer grass due to the sensitive bump sensor.    ... Show more
Get it now
$1,199 at Amazon
$1,199 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Price
$1,399Maximum yard size
0.3 acresCutting width
8 inchesCutting height range
1.6-3.2 inchesNavigation
RTKMax slope
30 degreesCharge time
90 minutesNoise level
59 decibels
Add to compare
Adam Doud/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Adam Doud/CNET
Best design and best for straighter lawns
Husqvarna Automower 410 iQ
7.0
/10
SCORE
Pros
Attractive looks
Widest cutting path at 9.4 inches
Versatile RTK beacon
Cons
Annoying boundary setup
No cameras
Poor obstacle avoidance
Best for:If there is a Rolls-Royce of mowers, it has to be the Husqvarna. I tested the Husqvarna 410 iQ mower, which is new from the brand. Husqvarna has been involved in robot mowers for a long time. It developed the first robot mower back in the mid-1990s, which is surprising on a number of different levels. The mower is the largest I tested that actually cut my grass (more on that later), but it's more for lawns with straight lines. Why we recommend it:From a sheer looks perspective, the Husqvarna 410 iQ looks like a luxury vehicle in its lines and design. I love the way it looks. It dwarfs most of the other mowers I tested (with one notable exception). The control panel on the back is easy to use and intuitive, which is a good thing, because you'll be using it a lot. It seems like every time the mower runs into a hiccup, you have to press some combination of the start and stop buttons, and every time you do that, you need to reenter your PIN, which is only four numbers, but you have to enter that PIN often.One notable error I often encountered was a "Loop sensor problem," which only happened while the mower was on the charger but required me to re-enter my PIN every time. Husqvarna says this issue should be fixed in the next software update, so that's good news. The other annoyance about this mower is how you set up zones. Most of the other mowers just require you to drive around the circumference of the area. Husqvarna requires individual waypoints to mark the boundaries. If you have a rectangular area, that's easy. If you have a curve however, you have to drive, waypoint, drive, waypoint, drive, waypoint -- you get the idea.At $3,000 at full price, it's less expensive than our best overall, the Segway Navimow X390, but significantly more costly than either the Eufy E15 or Sunseeker X3 Plus. Who shouldn’t get it: The Husqvarna mower doesn't have a camera system, relying instead on a radar module on the nose. I didn't find that radar module to be very helpful, though since the mower tried to run over my foot -- twice. I did indeed test this. Not to worry, all my little piggies are still there, but that a tense moment. The lack of a camera also caused the mower to pop a wheelie on a low brick wall I have around a garden, so it'd be fair to say it didn't handle obstacles well. If your lawn is curved or has obstacles that need to be avoided, you also want to look elsewhere.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,999 at Amazon
See at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Price
$2,999Maximum yard size
0.5 acresCutting width
9.4 inchesCutting height range
1-4 inchesNavigation
RTKMax slope
27 degreesCharge time
N/ANoise level
N/A
Add to compareWhat we updated
June 2025: This best list is brand new with the Segway Navimow, Eufy E15, Sunseeker X3 Plus and the Husqvarna 410 iQ, tested through May and June 2025. September 2025: Added new section covering robot lawn mower industry developments in 2025.
What's new with robot lawn mowers in 2025?
The robot lawn mower industry will only grow between 2025 and 2026. At IFA 2025, the famous tech trade show that takes place in Berlin each year, we saw a variety of new robot lawn mowers announced and new technology showcased.The biggest announcement came from Roborock, which is entering the robot lawn mower market with its first lineup of three new robot mowers: the RockMow Z1, the RockMow S1 and the RockNeo Q1. The Z1 is the most advanced model, featuring all-wheel drive, the ability to climb slopes up to 80% and clear obstacles up to 6 centimeters. It uses RTK and VSLAM for navigation and can trim up to 3 centimeters near walls. It can cover up to 5,000 square meters of ground in 24 hours. The S1 falls on the more affordable end, with AI smart mapping, a 3cm edge cutting capability, slope coverage up to 45% and vertical obstacles up to 4cm. It should tackle 1,000 square meters in 24 hours. The Q1 is a similar model, with AI smart mapping, 3cm edge cutting, 45% slopes and 4cm obstacles, but it comes with features that make it less dangerous to nocturnal animals. Pricing and availability aren't known yet, but we expect to test these models when samples are available. Mammation, a well-known robot lawn mower company, also had a presence at IFA, showing off the Luba mini AWD LiDAR robot lawn mower, with the name giving you a good idea of what it includes. It comes with LiDAR, RTK and AI vision for navigation. It also features all-wheel drive, an increasingly common feature for robot lawn mowers (and more recently, robot vacuums), giving them better stability and the ability to cross obstacles and handle slopes. Mammation also rolled out the Yuka mini Vision Series, the first robot lawn mower powered by visual processing without other navigation technology. It uses three cameras to do auto-mapping, allowing it to be set up and used without any installation or much setup required. We're particularly interested in testing this model to see how it compares to rivals that use RTK and LiDAR.
Robot lawn mowers compared
MowerPriceMaximum Yard SizeCutting WidthCutting Height RangeNavigationMax SlopeCharge TimeNoise Level Eufy E15 1,799.99.2 acre (800 sq m)8 in1-3 inGPS + Camera18 degrees90-110 min56 dbSegway Navimow X390 4,9992.5 acre9.3 in2-4 inEPOS (RTK)27 degrees100 min60 dbSunseeker X3 1,399.99.3 acre 8 in1.6 - 3.2 inRTK30 degree90 minutes59dbHusqvarna 410 iQ 2,999.99.5 acre9.4 in1-4 inRTK27 degreesn/an/a
Other robot lawn mowers we’ve tested
The following two mowers lived in my backyard for all six weeks of my testing time, but never managed to mow a blade of grass, for a variety of reasons. They have potential, which is why they're on this list, but they still have some things to work out.
Adam Doud/CNETYarbo Lawn Mower
Adam Doud/CNETThe Yarbo robot mower is an absolute clinic in overengineering. Every other mower on this list arrived at my house in a box that weighed between 40 and 60 pounds. Yarbo's mower arrived in six separate boxes, two of which weighed over 100 pounds each. There's a reason for all of this, and it comes back to Yarbo's mission. Yarbo built a modular system that has a core component and add-on modules for different functions. One is a snow blower, one is a leaf blower and the one I received is a lawnmower.The "core" module, which is what drives the other components, has rubberized tank treads lights around the perimeter, and by itself weighs around over 100 pounds. The mower module weighs another 50 to 60 pounds. If you want to push around snow, you need a heavy-duty build -- I totally get that. But at the end of the day, according to Eric Dowd Golf and Mobile Solutions Expert (and no relation of mine, despite the last name)  at Automated Outdoor Solutions, the Yarbo mower is a commercial unit. It's not really intended for residential use.
Adam Doud/CNETThe reason I have it listed in this section is because I had an enormous amount of trouble getting a connection to satellites (this was something of a theme). First, I had trouble with the RTK beacon, but once that got resolved, the mower itself had trouble. I have a large tree in my backyard. I'm fairly sure I'm not the only person with a large tree in the backyard, so this is not ideal. I will continue to work with Yarbo to get things squared away.Airseekers Tron
Adam Doud/CNETThe most oddly-named and oddly designed mower on this list, the Airseekers Tron will run you $2,099. Most of the mowers on this list have two drive wheels and two omnidirectional wheels, like what you'd find on an office chair. The Airseekers Tron on the other hand has two drive wheels and two powered wheels in the front as well. But the wheels in front are canted inward. Rollers on the wheels allow the Tron to be -- in theory -- more maneuverable. This all looks good on paper. However, there were some issues.First, the Airseekers Tron shipped with comically short cables for both the RTK beacon and the base station. By the time I assembled the beacon and ran the cable through the pipe that holds it up, there was about 4 feet of cable left. If you're attaching the cable to the base station (more on that in a moment) that means the mower and the beacon need to be in the same space. That may be OK, depending on your space, but really it's not OK.
Adam Doud/CNETTo mitigate this, you can plug in the beacon separately, but that requires a separate cord and plug. Airseekers shipped me the unit with European plugs and an adapter for American plugs -- a not-waterproof adapter, besides. Airseekers assured me that when the device ships internationally, there will be appropriate plugs on all the cables for each region. Mine is an early unit.When it comes to driving the mower -- to map a space. for example -- I ran into trouble. The mower would veer off in odd directions. It seemed like the front wheels weren't functioning as designed. I've been working closely with Airseekers support, and the company has been responsive to the issues I ran into, but as of the time this article was published, the mower hasn't accomplished the one job it has. Factors to consider when buying a robot lawn mower
The main thing to remember when buying a robot lawn mower is that your lawn care days are not done. Eric Dowd from Automated Outdoor Solutions pointed out that most of the company's residential customers still had a bunch of work to do, even after the mower was done doing its thing. Grass trimming along the edges is a big one -- in Chicago we call it "weed whacking". As with a traditional mower, there's always some grass left over that the blades can't reach because of the chassis. You'll still need to do that with a weed whacker (sometimes referred to as a weed eater or string trimmer). Plus, as mentioned, if you have any narrow paths of grass, you'll likely have to cut those manually with the same trimmer or a traditional lawn mower.
Adam Doud/CNETHere are some other things to keep in mind when picking the best robot lawn mower to buy: Yard size compatibility (square footage ranges): Consider whether the mower is designed for larger or smaller lawns. A small yard is typically under 5,000 square feet, which is the case for me. A medium yard is usually between 5,000 and 10,000 square feet. Finally, large yards are 10,000 square feet or more, though this will vary according to urban or suburban areas. Some robot mowers are best for urban settings or medium-sized yards, while others are suited for large areas. Your mower should be able to efficiently and effectively cover your entire lawn without running out of battery or taking an excessive amount of time.Navigation technology (boundary wires, GPS, vision systems): Determine what navigation system the mower uses. Options include GPS with RTK beacons for precise location accuracy, vision sensors that use cameras to map and navigate, or boundary wires that define the mowing area. GPS coverage can also be a factor, especially in urban settings with potential signal obstructions.Cutting performance on different grass types: Understand if the mower can handle different grass types and conditions. Thicker grass or variations in grass length can affect mower performance. Some mowers may struggle with dense or tall grass, while others are designed for more challenging lawns.Cutting width: This refers to the width of the area the mower cuts in a single pass. A slimmer cutting radius might mean the mower needs to make more passes to cover the same area. Our best overall, the Segway Navimow X390 has a cutting width of 9 inches, while the Sunseeker has 8 inches. Slope handling capabilities (maximum degree): Evaluate if the mower can climb hills and handle uneven terrain. Some mowers are better at navigating difficult terrain than others, with varying degrees of slope they can manage. Ensure the mower can handle any slopes or inclines in your yard.Battery life and charging time: Consider how long the mower can run on a single charge and how long it takes to recharge. This impacts how efficiently the mower can cover your lawn and how long it will take to complete a mowing cycle. All the robot mowers we tested came with docking stations. The Yarbo mower included a wireless charging pad and didn’t require contacts. The remaining all have slots that allow you to charge them. Weather resistance (rain sensing, IP rating): Determine if the mower can operate in different weather conditions, including rain. Some mowers may have features to delay mowing if it's raining, while others are designed to be fully waterproof. Check the IP rating for water resistance level.Obstacle detection and avoidance: Evaluate how the mower avoids obstacles, such as trees, garden beds and other objects in the yard. Options include vision sensors that identify objects, radar modules that detect obstacles or bump sensors that trigger a change in direction upon contact.Noise level (decibels): Consider the mower's noise level, especially if you have close neighbors or prefer a quiet environment. Different models produce varying levels of noise, so check the decibel rating.Smart features and app control: Almost all robot lawn mowers have smart features and app control for scheduling, mapping and other functions. This can include remote control, scheduling mowing times, creating virtual boundaries and receiving notifications. How robot lawn mowers work
Robot lawn mowers of yore started off using a boundary wire to determine where it could and could not go, and they were problematic. The boundary wire had to make a complete, unbroken circle. And if anything happened to the wire, you had problems. These days, robot mowers work via GPS, but it's GPS with a little bit extra in an RTK beacon. Scott Porteous, head of robotics for Husqvarna broke it down for me.
Adam Doud/CNETGPS navigation GPS today is accurate down to a few feet. That's fine when you're navigating in your car, or looking for Tupperware in the woods, but it's not good for things like property lines. The Real-Time Kinematic beacon also communicates with GPS satellites to provide a fixed location on Earth that the satellites know about. In essence, the RTK beacon tells the satellites, "I'm always here." Meanwhile, the mower drives around, and the beacon tells the mower that the satellites think it's 5 feet to the north, so the mower should take the location that GPS is reading and adjust it accordingly. This allows robot mowers to get accuracy down to the centimeter.GPS coverageAnother thing to consider is your general GPS coverage. If you live out in the suburbs, there's a good chance you'll be able to find a spot in your yard to set up a base station and RTK beacon. If you live in the city, that might be challenging. Also, wherever you set up your mower, you'll probably need to be within Wi-Fi range for the mower to operate properly. A mower like the Yarbo actually gets an ethernet cable that runs to a router. If you decide to go with the Yarbo, that's something you'll need to do.
Adam Doud/CNETCutting widthRobot mowers have a lot of difficulty with narrow paths. The reason for this is due to those blades and its overall construction. For example, the Segway mower's chassis is 20.5 inches with a cutting width of 9 inches. The Sunseeker, one of the smaller bots, has a 14-inch width accompanied by a cutting width of 8 inches. This is not conducive to cutting narrow paths. Even if the body of the mower fits there, it can't get the right angle to cut all the grass. Mostly, they just wiggle back and forth, which doesn't do a heck of a lot.Camera systemsMost mowers have camera systems that allow them to avoid obstacles and navigate. Eufy relies on that camera system, so much so that it can't operate at night at all. Other mowers have the ability to turn off nighttime mowing because obstacle detection is a lot worse for obvious reasons.
Adam Doud/CNETSchedulingAll of the mowers have scheduling abilities, so the mower only runs when you want it to. Some of the mowers even take weather into account -- if it's raining when it's time to mow, it delays the mowing. It's important to remember that consistent mowing times are crucial to the proper operation of the mowers so the grass won't get too long for it to handle.Human oversight Finally, it's important to remember that robot mowers are exactly that -- robots. A human can look at a patch of grass and know exactly how to move through it. Robots, not so much. It can be frustrating to watch a mower make its way through a lawn and just skip past a piece of grass.  If you don't obsessively watch the mower (like I had to in order to review them), you might come back after it runs a cycle and see patches that it skipped, which can also be frustrating. As a human, you might have to do some tidying up after a robot mower, but it'll be significantly less work than doing the whole thing yourself.
Adam Doud/CNETMy backyard is a wonderful minefield of obstacles and grades that embodies just about any condition you might have in a yard. I have a trampoline that none of the mowers seemed to be able to navigate (the supporting pipes on the ground couldn't be climbed over). My tree is large and has roots sticking out of the ground. I have dogs who were curious about their new robot friends creeping back and forth across the lawn. I also have a fair amount of landscaping and some narrow paths that none of the mowers did a good job of cutting.My front yard is much more straightforward except that neither of my neighbors have a boundary between their property line and mine, so I had to rely on GPS and the RTK beacon to test. I found them to be accurate enough. I programmed one of the mowers to also cut my elderly neighbor's yard (not the colorful one, the other one), which he appreciated. This is why you don't mess with the tech reviewer.
Adam Doud/CNETDuring my testing time, temperatures varied wildly from 40 degrees Fahrenheit to up over 90 degrees -- welcome to the midwest. We also had a few rainstorms, including one torrential downpour that didn't kill any of the bots, so that's a plus.After every mower did its thing, I waited several days for the grass to grow back to test the next one, however I didn't wait too long because -- again -- maintenance, not mowing. I put these mowers through their paces for the past six weeks, but I anticipate some long-term testing will be necessary. We plan to keep this list updated with more mowers as they're released, or even mowers we didn't get to this time around, so be sure to check back. Robot lawn mowers vs. traditional mowers
The most obvious difference between a robot mower and traditional mowers is in the fact that robot mowers mow by themselves. This is going to be a long-term investment in getting your time back. Plus, as I told my wife, "Sure the robot mower takes longer than our 18-year-old son to mow the lawn, but you only have to ask it once to do it." Beyond that, a robot mower starts itself, mows by itself, parks itself and charges itself. It's a true "set it and forget it" tool. The cost savings in frustration alone is almost worth it.
Adam Doud/CNETSpeaking of which, there's a huge cost difference between a traditional mower and a robot mower. A traditional push mower will cost a few hundred dollars. Our cheapest robot mower is $1,399. So there is a big gap there.The other consideration is that a robot mower isn't designed to mow a lawn, per se; it's designed to maintain a lawn. All of the robot mowers I tested recommended that you cut your lawn first before implementing the robot. Once you do, the robot can mow two or three times per week and keep your lawn where you want it.
FAQs
How hard is it to set up a robot mower?
Robot lawnmowers aren't hard to set up, but they may require tools and some advanced planning on your part. You'll need power, a clear view of the sky and the ability to run wires to all the components. Like anything automated, setting it up is the tricky part, but the long-term payoff is worth it.
What ongoing maintenance do robot lawn mowers require?
Robot lawnmowers are largely self-sufficient devices that run when you tell them to, charge themselves and don't require supervision most of the time. Maintenance comes in the winter when you need to store them. It's a good idea to replace the blade, too. Beyond that, they're pretty easy.
How do robot lawn mowers handle obstacles and boundaries?
Boundaries and obstacles are handled through a combination of GPS, visual sensors, radar and app controls. Once you set the boundaries, you can also set "no-go zones" which the mower will avoid. Other obstacles are detected with onboard sensors that generally keep the mower out of trouble.
About the Author
Adam Doud CNET Contributor Adam Doud CNET Contributor
Adam has been a leader in the tech media field for over a decade, with bylines at a number of different publications. When he's not hosting the Benefit of the Doud podcast, he's busy getting his hands on as many phones, tablets and laptops as possible. He regularly uses both iOS and Android (six-month rotation for each), and he fully embraces technology. He hasn't carried cash money since 2018, and pays for everything with his phone wherever possible.
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.