Best Eye Doctor-Approved Over-the-Counter Eye Drops of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessPersonal Care Eye Care
Best Eye Doctor-Approved Over-the-Counter Eye Drops of 2025
We asked ophthalmologists and optometrists for their recommendations on the best eye drops that can soothe various eye problems.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Written by
Medically Reviewed
Article updated on August 25, 2025 at 5:00 AM PDT
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Reviewed by: Troy Mensen, DO Medical Reviewer Dr. Troy Mensen is a family medicine doctor based in the Chicago area. He completed his undergraduate degree at the University of Northern Iowa and his doctorate at Des Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine. Expertise Family medicine Credentials American Board of Family Medicine, Family MedicineState of Illinois, Medical Examining Board License Education University of Northern Iowa, BADes Moines University College of Osteopathic Medicine, DO See more
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Purpose
Eye drops may be designed to treat dryness, redness or other eye issues. Some conditions require prescription eye drops instead of over-the-counter ones.
Ingredients
Make sure to look at the active ingredients in your eye drops -- some chemicals can cause issues in the eyes over time.
Preservatives
Depending on how often you plan to use the eye drops and what you're using them for, a preservative-free brand may be best. Also, some preservatives are safer than others.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Seasonal changes can cause your eyes to feel uncomfortable due to environmental factors. Dry, red, irritated or tired eyes are a sign of seasonal allergies or other changes going on externally. According to Dr. Celia Koetting, an optometrist and clinical instructor at the University of Colorado School of Medicine, dry eye disease is a chronic problem that can flare up depending on the season. It's recommended for patients to visit an eye doctor for a thorough evaluation, but you don't have to wait for a doctor's appointment to get immediate relief, thanks to over-the-counter eye drops. We talked with ophthalmologists and optometrists about the best drugstore eye drops available. Here are their favorite picks. Our Picks
Best overall over-the-counter eye drops iVizia Sterile Lubricant Eye Drops for Dry Eyes
Jump to details
$9 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best over-the-counter eye drops for dry eyes Systane Complete PF Eye Drops
Jump to details
$13 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best over-the-counter eye drops for red eyes Lumify
Jump to details
$12 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best eye drops for contact lens users Blink Eye Drops for Contact Lenses
Jump to details
$7 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best over-the-counter eye drops for post-eye surgery dryness Systane Hydration PF Eye Drops
Jump to details
$15 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best over-the-counter eye drops for allergies Pataday Once Daily Relief Allergy Eye Drops
Jump to details
$21 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best over-the-counter overnight eye drops Optase Hylo Night Dry Eye Ointment (Update: Currently unavailable)
Jump to details
$17 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 2 more
Table of Contents
Best Eye Doctor-Approved Over-the-Counter Eye Drops of 2025
What are the best eye drops overall?
Best eye drops of 2025
Best overall over-the-counter eye drops
Best over-the-counter eye drops for dry eyes
Best over-the-counter eye drops for red eyes
Best eye drops for contact lens users
Best over-the-counter eye drops for post-eye surgery dryness
Best over-the-counter eye drops for allergies
Best over-the-counter overnight eye drops
Recent updates
How we evaluated the best eye drops
What to consider when choosing eye drops
When eye drops aren't enough
Different forms of dry eye treatment
Best eye drops FAQ
Read more: Best Places Online to Buy Contact LensesWhat are the best eye drops overall?
The IVIZIA eye drops are a top favorite among eye doctors for multi-purpose use. AmazonThe iVizia sterile lubricant eye drops are our pick for the best eye drops overall, because they're recommended by many professionals and versatile enough for a range of eye issues.Best eye drops of 2025
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best overall over-the-counter eye drops
iVizia Sterile Lubricant Eye Drops for Dry Eyes
Pros
Multipurpose for different eye issues
Filter prevents contamination
Drops are small to avoid waste
HSA/FSA eligible
Cons
Expensive
Why we like it: The iVizia eye drops are a favorite among ophthalmologists. These artificial tear eye drops come in a small bottle and are intended for dry eyes, but they're multipurpose and can work for just about any eye issue. Dr. Thomas Stokkermans, an optometrist and medical reviewer at All About Vision, said, "These drops have one of my preferred lubricants in it known as povidone and the high-technology dispenser has a filter in it to prevent contamination, and allows the artificial tears to be preservative-free and dispensed from a multiuse container." Who it's best for: According to Dr. Natalya Rooney, optometrist and owner of Merrick Avenue Optometry, another great aspect of these drops is their versatility and efficiency. "These drops can also be used with contact lenses and the size of the drop is smaller than other artificial tears which makes it easy to not waste drops," she said. One user Amazon user with a condition that causes complete eye closure and dryness said IVIZIA is the only eye drop that has helped them. "For the price, longevity and comfort, IVIZIA is my absolute favorite."  ... Show more
Get it now
$9 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Best for
Users with dry eyesActive ingredients
Hyaluronic Acid, povidone, trehaloseFeatures
Lubricant, preservative-free
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best over-the-counter eye drops for dry eyes
Systane Complete PF Eye Drops
Pros
Good for dry and sensitive eyes
Free of preservatives
Pregnancy-safe
HSA/FSA eligible
Cons
Expensive
Why we like it: Systane is a trusted brand recommended by optometrists for those with dry eyes. As someone who's struggled with dry eye symptoms, this product is my usual go-to. The Systane eye drops come in a small bottle and work for up to eight hours and are ideal for dry, sensitive eyes. The bottle is designed to dispense nano droplets so you don't waste any product. They’re also safe for regular use, as they’re free of preservatives and carry a lower risk of toxicity.Who it's best for: Dr. Koetting said she likes these drops for all kinds of dry eyes, and they're also safe to use during pregnancy, which can bring on a case of dryness. One user on Amazon raves about Systane eye drops and claims they're the only eye drops that work for them. They use the drops morning, afternoon and evening and said, "I notice almost instant relief, and I really do like the design of the dropper because it minimizes the drop that I have to put in my eye and increases the life of the bottle."  ... Show more
Get it now
$13 at Amazon
$18 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Best for
Users with sensitive and dry eyesActive ingredients
Propylene glycol, lubricantFeatures
Preservative-free, fast-acting, nano droplets
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best over-the-counter eye drops for red eyes
Lumify
Pros
Reduces eye redness right away
Reduces pressure and fluid in eyes
FSA eligible with doctor's note
Cons
You need doctor clearance first
Expensive
If you're prone to red eyes, it's important to know what's causing them before self-medicating. Koetting said that "if someone has red eyes, it is typically a symptom of something else, such as more severe dry eye disease and is a good idea to see an eye care professional, especially if there is any sudden pain with it." Dr. John Sheppard, an ophthalmologist and professor of ophthalmology at Eastern Virginia Medical School, agrees and advises avoiding vasoconstrictor eye drops with naphazoline, a decongestant that's usually found in OTC eye drops like Visine or Clear Eyes. This ingredient is also known to restrict blood flow, which can cause high blood pressure. Why we like it: "These types of drops induce dependency, so I prefer Lumify," said Dr. Sheppard. If you've cleared with your doctor that it's appropriate to use OTC drops for redness, Lumify is a solid choice. Lumify is a small bottle that contains brimonidine, which is commonly used in glaucoma medication. It also helps reduce pressure and fluid in the eyes. Who it's best for: As long as you aren't dealing with an infection or other medical complication, Lumify is safe to use, especially if you're looking to reduce eye redness fast. One Amazon, one reviewer loves Lumify because of how quickly it works, saying, "They work incredibly fast -- within minutes, my eyes go from red and tired to bright and refreshed." Additionally, he likes that it doesn't cause rebound redness, unlike some other brands.  ... Show more
Get it now
$12 at Amazon
$13 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Best for
Users with eye rednessActive ingredients
Brimonidine tartrate, benzalkonium chloride, boric acid, calcium chloride dihydrate, glycerin, potassium chloride, sodium borate decahydrate, sodium chloride, water for injectionFeatures
FDA-approved drops, reduces redness in a minute, no bleach or dyes
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best eye drops for contact lens users
Blink Eye Drops for Contact Lenses
Pros
Contact lens-friendly
Can be used before and after contact insertion
OcuPure preservative transforms into natural tears
FSA/HSA eligible
Cons
Should get doctor clearance first before use
Has preservatives if that's something you're trying to avoid
Why we like it: If you use contact lenses, you're probably used to having dry eyes when you wear them for too long. That's why it's important to rewet them throughout the day. Blink eye drops come in a small bottle and are popular lubricating eye drops for contact lens users. These drops can be used before inserting your contacts or after. Blink contacts aren't preservative-free and include an ingredient known as OcuPure which is a gentle oxidative preservative made up of sodium chloride and other ingredients that transform into natural tear components in the eye.Who it's best for: This is one of Dr. Stokkermans' top eye drop picks. "I like Blink Contacts because it has a good preservative [OcuPure] that does not cause as much eye problems," he said. If you're not sure if Blink Eye Drops are right for your contact needs, consult with your eye doctor first. One Amazon user who is a fan of the drops loves that these eye drops save them from the dry weather in their hometown. "It is easy to use and pop into your pocket to have at all times because you never know when you will need it with contacts ... living in the desert!"
... Show more
Get it now
$7 at Walmart
$9 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Best for
Users with dry contact lensesActive ingredients
Purified water, sodium hyaluronate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, calcium chloride, magnesium chloride, boric acid and is preserved with the OcuPure preservativeFeatures
Lubricating, fast-acting, soothing
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best over-the-counter eye drops for post-eye surgery dryness
Systane Hydration PF Eye Drops
Pros
Single use vials
Ideal for post eye surgery
FSA/HSA eligible
Cons
Expensive
Why we like it: I personally like the single vials Systane offers: They're easy to toss in your bag when you're on the go and they're less wasteful. Systane's Hydration PF eye drops differ from our other top pick, Systane Complete PF eye drops, because the former is more for those who need to regularly hydrate their eyes during recovery. These hydration drops are Koetting's top pick for patients who've had LASIK eye surgery because they provide long-lasting relief and have the necessary extra moisturizing hydration components. One Amazon user swears by these drops and says the hydration works well for him, saying: "I have tried about 10 different drops over the past four or five years for my dry eyes and Systane Hydration works the best for me." He adds: "They have a longer shelf life once they’re open than most due to the design of the bottle cap."Who it's best for: One of the post-surgery side effects of LASIK or cataract eye surgery is dry eyes. Systane’s Hydration PF eye drops are a safe choice to help relieve dryness after eye surgery.  ... Show more
Get it now
$15 at Amazon
$19 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Best for
Users with dry, sensitive eyesActive ingredients
Sodium hyaluronate, polyethylene glycol 400, propylene glycol, hydroxypropyl guar, sorbitol, aminomethyl propanol, boric acid, sodium borate, disodium EDTA, sodium citrate, potassium chloride, sodium chloride and polyquadFeatures
Preservative-free, long-lasting relief
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best over-the-counter eye drops for allergies
Pataday Once Daily Relief Allergy Eye Drops
Pros
Great for allergy sufferers
FSA/HSA eligible
Cons
Can't be used with contacts
Requires some time to work
Expensive
Why we like it: "Pataday extra strength is a pretty effective drop and all you need to do is apply it once daily to each eye," Dr. Rooney said. If you're uncertain if Pataday will work for your allergy condition, remember to consult your doctor in case you are a better candidate for a medicated option. One Amazon user who is loyal to Pataday said they were dealing with dry eyes caused by allergies until they tried Pataday. They said, "My optometrist suggested I try Pataday and I gave it a few weeks before I started really noticing something." They added that it's been a bit over a month now and they can comfortably wear my contacts again without experiencing dryness. Who it's best for: Allergy sufferers know that allergy season can wreak havoc on eyes. That's why having dependable eye drops on hand can be helpful. Pataday Once Daily Relief Allergy Eye Drops come in a small bottle and are recommended by physicians because they contain an antihistamine that offers fast symptom relief for mild to moderate allergies. They can tackle indoor and outdoor allergens like dander, pollen, ragweed and grass. If you use contact lenses, it's not advised to use these drops while wearing them, and if you do, you should wait 10 minutes after application before inserting them.   ... Show more
Get it now
$21 at Amazon
$30 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Best for
Users with itchy eyes Active ingredients
Olopatadine hydrochloride; povidone; dibasic sodium phosphate; sodium chloride; edentate disodium; benzalkonium chloride 0.01% (preservative); hydrochloric acid/sodium hydroxide (adjust pH); and purified waterFeatures
Antihistamine, one drop, once a day, fast-acting
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best over-the-counter overnight eye drops
Optase Hylo Night Dry Eye Ointment (Update: Currently unavailable)
Pros
Preservative-free
Ideal for those with certain sleeping conditions
Ideal for people with moderate to sever eye dryness
HSA/FSA eligible
Cons
Some people may not like the tube
Expensive
Why we like it: The Optase Hylo Night Dry Eye Ointment comes in a tube and is a favorite of Koetting, who recommends this preservative-free drop meant for patients with certain sleeping conditions. "For those who have a CPAP machine or may sleep with eyes partially open, this ointment in particular is good because it has Vitamin A to help heal the front surface," she said. Optase is safe for everyday use and is applied to the eyelids before bed. People with moderate to severe dry eyes may find relief using this ointment regularly. If your eyes don't seem to improve after some time, speak with your doctor to find a better or stronger solution. On Amazon, a user with thyroid eye disease claims that Optase is the only eye ointment that has worked for them. They said, "I have TED and my eyelids no longer close all the way so nighttime eye ointment is now an everyday part of my life. I have tried all the over the counter brands and this brand is by far hands down the best."Who it's best for: Sometimes overnight drops are necessary when your eyes need extra lubrication. Overnight drops are different from your standard eye drops. "Oftentimes a thicker gel or ointment may be recommended for overnight eight-hour relief while sleeping," said Dr. Nathan Lighthizer, an optometrist and associate dean at the Northeastern State University Oklahoma College of Optometry.   ... Show more
Get it now
$17 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Best for
Users with nighttime dry eyesActive ingredients
White petrolatum, lanolin, and light mineral oilFeatures
Lubricant, preservative-free, safe to use everyday
Add to compareRecent updates
April 3, 2025: Added Amazon reviews to each product. List selections have been unchanged.Best eye drops compared
Eye drop
Best for Active ingredientsFeaturesiVizia Sterile Lubricant Eye Drops for Dry Eyes Dry eyesHyaluronic Acid, Povidone, TrehaloseLubricant, preservative-freeSystane Complete PF Eye Drops Sensitive dry eyesPropylene Glycol, LubricantPreservative-free, fast-acting, nano dropletsLumify
RednessBrimonidine Tartrate, benzalkonium Chloride, Boric Acid, Calcium Chloride Dihydrate, Glycerin, Potassium Chloride, Sodium Borate Decahydrate, Sodium Chloride, Water for InjectionFDA-approved drops, reduces redness in a minute, no bleach or dyesBlink Eye Drops for Contact Lenses Dry contact lensesPurified Water, Sodium Hyaluronate, Sodium Chloride, Potassium Chloride, Calcium Chloride, Magnesium Chloride, Boric Acid and is Preserved with the OcuPure PreservativeLubricating, Fast acting, SoothingSystane Hydration PF Eye Drops Dry, sensitive eyesSodium hyaluronate, polyethylene glycol 400, propylene glycol, hydroxypropyl guar, sorbitol, aminomethyl propanol, boric acid, sodium borate, disodium EDTA, sodium citrate, potassium chloride, sodium chloride and PolyquadPreservative-free, long-lasting reliefPataday Once Daily Relief Allergy Eye Drops Allergy itch reliefOlopatadine hydrochloride; povidone; dibasic sodium phosphate; sodium chloride; edentate disodium; benzalkonium chloride 0.01% (preservative); hydrochloric acid/sodium hydroxide (adjust pH); and purified waterAntihistamine, one drop, once a day, fast actingOptase Hylo Night Dry Eye Ointment Nighttime dry eyeWhite Petrolatum, Lanolin, and Light Mineral OilLubricant, preservative free, safe to use everyday
How we evaluated the best eye drops
We consulted with six ophthalmologists and optometrists who prescribe eye drops to patients regularly and are familiar with the many over-the-counter eye drop brands on the market. We compiled their expertise and recommendations, which were based on ingredients, safety, ease of use, versatility and other factors. What to consider when choosing eye drops
Before buying any type of eye drops, it's important to speak with your doctor so they can evaluate your issue. In some cases, OTC eye drops are sufficient, but in other situations, you may need prescription medicated drops. If your issue can be resolved with OTC eye drops, you should know that there are drops with preservatives and others without them. The preservative-free eye drops are generally safe for most people -- including pregnant people. Drops with preservatives should be used more conservatively because they can worsen some cases. The same is true for other drops, such as the ones for redness relief."Poor-quality artificial tears, or ones that tout the red out, often have chemicals that can cause problems including rebound redness, dilation of the eyes, corneal toxicity, blurred vision and worsening of dry eye disease," Koetting warned.Dr. Edmund Farris, an associate clinical professor of ophthalmology at Mount Sinai, added that these preservatives have the ability to change aspects of the eye. He said, "the preservatives in most drops can alter the corneal surface and cause loss of these superficial corneal cells, which may eventually lead to more symptoms." So if you're using these types of drops too often, this can become an issue. Some signs to look out for if you think you're having a negative reaction to eye drops include redness that gets worse, irritation, blurred vision and a burning or grittiness sensation. Often times this occurs due to the preservatives found in some drops. Koetting said that if these symptoms don't improve, it can indicate an allergy or sensitivity to the drops. "However, if a person notices that they are having an increase in itching, swelling around the eye or the whites of the eyes become swollen and red, they should immediately discontinue the drop and call an eye care professional," she added.  When eye drops aren't enough
In some cases, you may need steroids or other medicated treatments if OTC eye drops are not doing their job. "Oftentimes, dry eye disease has multiple causes, and will take multiple treatments to see improvement," Dr. Lighthizer said. He added that a patient with mild to severe dry eye may require multiple treatments, including OTC artificial tears (usually preservative-free) along with a prescription dry eye drop. According to Koetting, a good rule of thumb to follow is if the symptoms have minimal improvement over two weeks or if you find yourself using over-the-counter artificial tears more than twice a day.
Different forms of dry eye treatment
There are various ways to treat dry eyes, and what works for you will depend on what's causing your dry eyes. Below are the different ways you can treat dry eyes.Over-the-counter drops: This is one of the immediate ways to treat dry eyes since many drops are fast-acting and are usually safe to use regularly. Home remedies: Sometimes home remedies can help relieve itchy eyes. You can use a warm compress, avoid sitting near a fan or air conditioner, drinking more water, getting better sleep and more. Prescription drops: If your dry eyes are severe enough that over-the-counter drops can't fix the issue, your doctor will most likely prescribe a specialized drop to help you. Best eye drops FAQ
What causes dry eyes?
Dry eyes can be caused by environmental changes, allergies, certain medicines, long-time screen use, vitamin deficiencies, underlying health conditions, tear production reduction as you age, contact lens wear and more.
Show more
How often should I use eye drops?
How often you use eye drops may vary based on your symptoms and the eye drops you're using. Be sure to follow the directions on the package of your chosen eye drops to ensure that you're using the correct number of drops at the appropriate frequency. Some eye drops are designed for daily use for ongoing eye dryness, while others are meant for short-term use and may advise you to stop and contact your doctor if your symptoms don't improve within a set time period.
Show more
Which eye drops are safe to use every day?
Preservative-free eye drops are generally safe to use daily or as directed on the bottle.
Show more
Do eye drops really work?
Eye drops are effective at hydrating the eyes and relieving dryness, but they don't treat the underlying issue behind your eye symptoms. Those experiencing symptoms of an infection or severe dryness may require prescription eye drops and should consult a medical professional.
Show more
How can I hydrate my eyes without eye drops?
You can improve dry eye without eye drops by drinking enough water, taking screen breaks, blinking more often and protecting your eyes from the sun.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Also written by
Troy Mensen, DO Medical Reviewer
Personal Care Guides
Eye Care
Best Places to Buy Glasses Online
Best Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses
Best Eye Drops
Best Places to Buy Contacts Online
Best Prescription Sunglasses
Best Blue Light Blocking Glasses
Dental Care
Best Electric Toothbrush
Quip Toothbrush Review
Best Invisible Braces
Best Teeth Whitening Strips and Toothpaste
Best Teeth Whitening Kits
Mental Health
Best Mental Health Apps
Best Teas for Stress and Anxiety
Best Fidget Toys for Anxiety
Best Online Therapy
Best Online Couples Therapy
Best Online Psychiatric Services
Betterhelp Online Therapy Review
Cerebral Review
Talkspace Online Therapy Review
Talkspace vs. Betterhelp
Other Personal Care
Best Sunscreen
Best Shower Filter
Best Hand Soap
Best Period Underwear
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.