iPhone 17s are getting dinged up fast - how to protect yours from 'Scratchgate' | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
iPhone 17s are getting dinged up fast - how to protect yours from 'Scratchgate'
People are calling out scratches on the frame and back of new iPhone 17 Pro models, even ones still in the store. This is one reason why a case is important.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 7:31 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysCustomers say they notice scratches on new iPhone 17 Pro units.The scratches appear on models still on display in-store.iPhone 17 buyers should use a case to protect their phones.Another new iPhone rollout, another possible controversy. This time, the iPhone 17 is in the crosshairs as buyers and potential customers are complaining that the phones scratch too easily, even ones still on display in Apple stores.The reports started surfacing this past weekend after the new iPhone lineup officially appeared in stores last Friday. So far, people have noticed scuffs on the deep blue variants of the iPhone 17 Pro and Pro Max and scratches on the iPhone 17 Air Space Black edition, Bloomberg reported on Friday.Also: I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this timeThe flaws have been discovered on new phones in Apple stores across New York, Hong Kong, Shanghai, and London. Apple's MagSafe charger is also apparently leaving a visible circular mark on the backs of iPhone 17 Pro models, Bloomberg added.Disgruntled customers have been chiming in on social media. In China, where the iPhone 17 first popped up for sale last Friday, people took to the Weibo social network to post photos of the scratched phones. The related hashtag was one of the top trending topics on the network, grabbing more than 40 million views, according to Bloomberg. Users also posted on Facebook and X with images of scuffs and scratches.Videos showing scratched phones have appeared on YouTube, as well. In one video, popular YouTuber JerryRigEverything intentionally scratched the back of an iPhone 17 Pro to show how some areas are more susceptible than others.Also: I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more senseFor example, the camera lenses are protected by Gorilla Glass, while the edges around the camera plateau seem vulnerable to scratching and even chipping. JerryRigEverything was also able to scratch the back of the iPhone 17 Pro. But here, he was able to easily wipe off the scratches.Responding to concerns that Scratchgate reports may be overblown, a writer at CultofMedia found scratch marks on several demo units at an Apple store. But these weren't surface-level scratches that could be easily removed, even after trying to wipe them off with a microfiber cloth.Why does the iPhone 17 seem more prone to scratches and scuffs than previous models? The answer may lie in the material used for the frame.For the iPhone 15 and 16 Pro lineup, Apple turned to titanium, a material that's more durable than other types of metals but can become hot. In a likely move to deal with the overheating, the company outfitted the iPhone 17 Pro models with an aluminum frame, which doesn't run as hot but is softer than titanium.Also: I compared the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, 17 Pro, and 17 Pro Max: Here's who should upgradeFor the back of the new Pro phones, Apple is using Ceramic Shield not just on the front, as it did in the past, but on the back. Though Ceramic Shield is supposed to be relatively scratch-resistant, scratches clearly are showing up, especially in the darker color models.Apple has faced other iPhone controversies in the past, including Antennagate with the iPhone 4s and Bendgate with the iPhone 6. Will this latest problem also prove a headache for the company? I contacted Apple for comment on the issue and will update the story with any details.The best advice is to always secure your phone with a case and a screen protector. That will safeguard it against scratches, scuffs, cracks, and other flaws. I use a clear case for my iPhone, which shows off the color but protects the back and edges. I do have to remove the case sometimes, if only to clean it. But even then, I'm careful how and where I place the phone while the case is off.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've tested every iPhone 17 model, and I'm recommending something different this time
Why I'm recommending this iPhone 17 model to most people (and it's not the Pro Max)
Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use