Own a PS5? I changed 3 quick settings to give my console a huge performance boost | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
TVs
Own a PS5? I changed 3 quick settings to give my console a huge performance boost
With a few tweaks, you can noticeably improve your PS5 experience - across gaming, streaming, or even your online security.
Written by
Chris Bayer, EditorEditor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 12:30 p.m. PT
Charlie Osborne/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysFew quick changes can help your PS5 run more efficiently and last longer.You'll notice smoother visuals and sharper colors across games.Built-in privacy controls give you more protection while you're online.I consider myself a casual gamer at best, but I love my PlayStation 5. It's my primary entertainment hub, where I can bypass the ad-laden cable subscription (insidiously built into my apartment's rent) in favor of watching streaming platforms. And the PS5 supports some of the most talked-about video games in the industry.Also: How much RAM do you really need in 2025? I broke it down for Mac and Windows usersThe PS5 comes with sophisticated default settings, yet not every one of them is necessarily ideal for your purposes or best use. So, whether you're gaming or viewing media through your PlayStation console, here are some things to consider, with detailed steps to make things run smoother and more safely.
1. Conserving your DualSense controller's battery life
A common complaint among users is that the PS5's DualSense controller doesn't hold a charge very long when unplugged. However, you can make several changes to extend its wireless functionality.In Settings (the gear icon in the upper right corner), go to Accessories > Controller (General) > Controller Indicators Brightness and change the setting to Dim. Thenfind Trigger Effect Intensity as well as Vibration Intensity and switch them from Standard to Weak. (If you're ok with having no haptic feedback at all, you can turn both these settings entirely Off.) Also: 4 PC parts I'm buying to upgrade my computer (and the 7 I'm keeping)Toward the bottom of the menu, you'll see Controller Speaker. Adjust the slider bar to the left for minimal output. You can also access this through Sound > Volume.Finally, if you're not gaming and instead watching video content, then your DualSense is needlessly burning energy. Go to System > Power Saving > Set Time Until Controllers Turn Off, and select After 10 Minutes.
Show more
2. Optimizing your screen and video output settings
If your TV supports VRR, 120Hz Output, and ALLM, these features should be enabled. Variable Refresh Rate (VRR) eliminates screen tearing and stuttering by dynamically adjusting your TV's refresh rate to match a game or movie production's frame rate for a cleaner visual experience. ALLM (Auto Low Latency Mode) essentially reduces input lag, making your actions with the controller appear on the screen faster.Follow this path: Settings > Screen and Video > Video Output and set VRR to Automatic. Also, enable Apply to Unsupported Games.While still on the Video Output submenu, you'll see options for ALLM and 120Hz Output. Change both of these to Automatic. Your TV will need to support HDMI 2.1 for these features to work, and the PS5 will tell you right away if your TV does not qualify.Also: The best TVs for PS5 of 2025: Expert tested and reviewedScrolling further down, you'll find HDR (High Dynamic Range) for which you want to be sure Always On is selected. Just below that, Adjust HDR offers an opportunity to run a swift wizard that calibrates your display for colors, brightness, and black levels. Use the controller to pick Brighter or Darker in order to make an on-screen symbol barely visible. (This will make sense when you try it.)Two more color settings appear at the bottom of this menu: Deep Color Output and RGB Range. Make sure these are both set to Automatic.
Show more
3. Protecting your online visibility and personal data
To help protect your privacy while using your PS5, you can customize certain settings to control what information is visible to others, restrict who can communicate with you, and manage your account security. This includes limiting who can see your online status, gaming history, and profile information, as well as controlling access to your account and console. Under Settings, head to Users and Accounts > Privacy > View and Customize Your Privacy Settings. Here, you can control who can see your real name, profile picture, friends list, game activity and history, and who can send friend requests or interact with you online. For each of the variables in this menu, I recommend choosing "No One" and "Close Friends Only." This should significantly reduce unwanted friend requests or spam.Also: How to clear your TV cache (and why you shouldn't wait to do it)If you're like me, you don't feel a need to infuse Sony's database with more personal information than required, such as the voice data collected through your DualSense controller's microphone.Under Privacy, scroll down to "Control how your data is collected and used" to access three options: Data You Provide, Personalization, and Voice Data Collection. For the former (Data You Provide), change the setting to Limited. For Personalization, I recommend turning off all four of the sub-options, including Standard Personalization. For the latter, switch to Don't Allow for Voice Data Collection.
Show more
Bottom line The PlayStation 5 offers dozens of customizable settings that can tailor your gaming and viewing experience to your particular preferences. You could spend an hour roving through the Settings menu to experiment with various options, tweaking them to your liking.
I've found these three factors to be most essential in getting the best out of the console while safeguarding my personal information. Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Own a Samsung TV? I changed these 6 settings to instantly improve the performance
Slow Fire TV? 10 settings I changed to dramatically improve the performance
I changed these 5 settings on my TV to significantly improve the picture quality
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use