Developer Success Stories Using Heroku Cloud App Platform
Search overlay panel for performing site-wide searches
Search For:
Close
Salesforce (Heroku) Recognized as a Leader. Learn More!
Search
Open Search Popup
Account menu
DashboardDatabasesDataclipsElementsDocumentationSupport
Login
Sign Up
Products
Products
Discover Heroku’s AI PaaS (Platform as a Service), designed for effortless app deployment and scaling. Explore our cloud application platform features, reliable managed data services, and a robust ecosystem to power your modern applications.
Heroku PlatformDeploy, manage, and scale apps on Heroku, an AI PaaS based on a managed container system.Heroku AIBuild intelligent applications with managed inference and agents, MCP, and more.Heroku Data ServicesSimplify your data management with Heroku’s fully managed cloud databases and data services.Heroku EnterpriseThe Heroku experience developers love, with the enterprise features large companies need.Heroku SuccessExplore Heroku’s support options from Standard to Signature, with resources for developers and partners.Heroku Elements MarketplaceAccelerate your app development with our ecosystem of add-ons, integrations, and buildpacks.
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Developers
Developers
With Heroku's flexible app platform, you can focus on building apps, not infrastructure. Benefit from a meticulously designed developer experience, a polyglot platform supporting your favorite languages, and innovative AI PaaS features to enhance your development workflow.
Dev CenterDive into our comprehensive documentation and guides. Learn about building, deploying, managing, and scaling your apps.Languages
Python.NETJavaNode.jsGoPHPRubyScalaClojure
Custom Agentforce Actions with Heroku AppLink
Join us for a deep dive into custom Agentforce actions with Heroku AppLink, a new integration solution that bridges the gap between powerful custom Heroku apps and your Salesforce ecosystem.
Customers
Customers
Discover how companies in diverse industries like Healthcare, Entertainment, Automotive, Retail, FinTech, and more achieve growth and foster innovation with our powerful cloud application platform. Learn how they leverage Heroku’s AI PaaS for cutting-edge solutions.
Customer StoriesHeroku in action: See how organizations of all sizes and industries are succeeding with Heroku.Community StoriesExplore real-world experiences and perspectives on Heroku from developers and communities online.
Customer Story: Watch Duty
Discover how Watch Duty used Heroku to provide real-time wildfire alerts, achieving 100% uptime and scaling effortlessly during crises.
PricingResources
ResourcesLearn more about Heroku's AI PaaS and stay up to date on all Heroku announcements. Gain insights from our team through insightful content and discover how to leverage our platform effectively.
BlogStay up-to-date on Heroku news, important product releases, and valuable insights from the Heroku team.What is Heroku?Learn how Heroku’s AI PaaS simplifies app development, deployment, and scaling.EventsFind Heroku at an event near you! Explore our calendar of tech conferences and meetups.PartnersFor Consultants, ISVs, and technical solution providers looking to grow their business with pro-code solutions.Compliance CenterHeroku is a platform you can trust. Explore our compliance certifications and security measures.Help CenterFind answers to your questions in the Help Center. Browse FAQs, articles, and get support.
Latest News from the Heroku Blog
Securing Salesforce Integrations with Heroku AppLink
Sept 10 - by David Baliles
Improve your security model with Heroku AppLink, a managed bridge between Salesforce and Heroku that improves risk and governance.
Stories from the communityDevelopers share their experiences with Heroku on news sites and blogs.
Featured
Customer Stories
Community Stories
How Heroku and Salesforce Make Scalable Custom Apps
Building custom apps that scale? See how Oktana expertly blends Heroku's developer experience with Salesforce's platform power to deliver innovative solutions for their clients.
— Oktana, Oktana Blog
How To Migrate Your App From Render To Heroku Fir
Migrating your app from Render to Heroku can significantly enhance performance, scalability, automation, and management for your app.
— Laura-Ann Burgess, Crazy Ant Labs, Crazy Ant Labs
Building a Matrix-themed Chat Interface with Heroku’s New Managed Inference API
Discover how to build a Matrix-themed chat interface with the classic green code, dynamic text, and smooth animations in a simple step-by-step guide.
— Anup Jadhav, Salesforce, Notes on AI Enginnering, LLMs and Agentic Architectures
Heroku and Bonsai, a Winning Search Combination
With Bonsai, customers get a robust, opinionated cluster that scales elastically to your usage.
— Bonsai, Bonsai
How to Deploy a Taipy App to Heroku
Learn how to deploy a Taipy app to Heroku in this straightforward tutorial. I'll walk you through each step, ensuring you know exactly what to do to get your Taipy app up and
— Sven B., Coding is Fun
Deploying Heroku Apps To Staging and Production Environments With GitLab CI/CD
We'll learn how to automatically deploy your app to the correct environment any time code is merged into your dev or main branches.
— Tyler Hawkins, DZone
I Built My First Go Application and Deployed it to Heroku
In this article, we’ll demonstrate how simple it is to build a RESTful web service in Go. Then, we’ll demonstrate how to deploy this application with Heroku.
— Alvin Lee, Dev.to
Deploying a Production-Ready RAG Server: A Comprehensive Guide with LlamaIndex
Learn how to use Heroku for deploying a production-ready RAG server, emphasizing its simplicity and robust capabilities for seamless application management.
— Marco Bertelli, Medium
Secure Your Heroku Apps With SSL
Explore how Heroku streamlines SSL setup with Automated Certificate Management and Heroku SSL, simplifying security for your apps
— Joseph Caudle, DZone
Deploying to Heroku With GitLab CI/CD
In this article, learn how you can deploy your Heroku app automatically any time code is merged into your main branch by using GitLab CI/CD.
— Tyler Hawkins, DZone
Vector Tutorial: Conducting Similarity Search in Enterprise Data
Learn how to leverage pgvector in Postgres for identifying industry similarities in enterprise data
— John Vester, DZone
LangChain, Python, and Heroku
Explore how the tech world harnesses LangChain, Python, and Heroku to develop and deploy robust LLM apps in this detailed guide!
— Alvin Lee, Dev.to
Designing and Deploying a Machine Learning Python Application (Part 2)
You don’t have to be Atlas to get your model into the cloud. Learn how to build and deploy machine learning applications to Heroku.
— Noah Haglund, Medium
Deploy a Rails API/React Frontend App to Heroku with Sessions & Cookies Authentication
There are many blogs out there that share how to deploy a Rails API with a React frontend, but very few discussed steps needed to include sessions and cookies
— Megs McClure, Dev.to
How to deploy a Django app to Heroku
Here we'll deploy a To-Do app I made in Django
— Adhney Nawghare, Dev.to
Deploying an ExpressJS (Node) web application to Heroku
In this lesson, we are going to create a sample image-processing web application using ExpressJs and host it on Heroku.
— Uday Hiwarale, ITNEXT
How to Containerize and Deploy Apps With Docker and Heroku
Build, Dockerize, and deploy a Rails and PostgreSQL app
— Chris I., BetterProgramming
Deploy Backend And Frontend Apps On The Same Heroku Dyno
A tutorial on deploying a ReactJS frontend and Rails API backend on the same dyno
— Chris I., Ruby Daily
Deploy Elixir Phoenix App with Heroku Containers
Recently got a phoenix app running with heroku containers so I thought it would be helpful to others to see how it works
— Nathaniel Johnson, Dev.to
Using Your CI/CD Pipeline To Prevent Your App From Getting Hacked
In this article, I'll look at the top 10 security vulnerabilities you should protect against. We'll look at some tools you can use to check for those vulnerabilities
— Milecia McG, Dev.to
Free Pushbullet Alternative With Gotify on Heroku
Enter Gotify, an open-source notification server for sending and receiving messages.
In this post I will show you how to deploy a Gotify server for free to Heroku.
— Sophia Brandt, rockyourcode
Deploy NodeJS/Express app to Heroku in less than 5 Minutes
(with video)
We can deploy our NodeJS/Express Apps to Heroku easily.
To learn how to deploy your NodeJS/Express Apps to Heroku in less than 5 minutes, watch the video
— Shahjada Talukdar, Dev.to
How To Deploy Your Phoenix 1.5 App to Heroku!
Learn how to deploy Phoenix 1.5 apps to Heroku,
a very easy-to-use web-hosting app that has a great free tier.
— Nicholas Feitel, Git Connected
Automatically migrate database when pushing to Heroku
Add a `release` line to a Procfile to automatically run tasks after build but before release.
— Axel Kee, rubyyagi.com
Deploy your Next.js app to Heroku in 5 minutes
This tutorial will prove how easily and quickly you can get your Next.js application deployed to Heroku.
— Marie Starck, Dev.to
How To Be Serverless on Heroku
Did you know you can do serverless on Heroku? Here is how I managed it.
— Mike Rogers, Personal Blog
Condos and Lumberjacks, or Why PaaS?
Often I am asked to explain “why use an IaaS provider?” or “why use a PaaS?” or “Why use Heroku?”.
I wrote this out to try and explain these concepts in concrete terms.
— Greg Nokes, Dev.to
Heroku is to IaaS as Apples are to Apple Seeds
I’ve put together what I hope is a helpful — if perhaps overly thorough — rubric by which you can compare Heroku against IaaS
— David Morgenthaler, The Startup
Running Puppeteer on Heroku Free Tier
Heroku is my favorite cloud platform to host my apps. During Covid-19 I created some cool automation tools and was looking for a place to run it for free.
— Zivka, Dev.to
Regional Air Quality with Arduino Explore IoT Kit
Heroku sponsored an IoT workshop at our recent CascadiaJS conference. Participants were sent a free Arduino Explore IoT kit to play with prior to the kit being available.
— Brian Gershon
Embedding PowerBI Dashboard In A Streamlit Web App & Deploying On Heroku
In this article, I have tried to integrate some of the great tools and libraries into a Streamlit Web App.
— Rithwik Chhugani, Analytics India Magazine
Deploying Django App to Heroku: Full Guide
You made an app with Django. Great! , and you are excited to show it to everyone on the planet. For that, you need to put it somewhere online so that others can access it.
— Shubh Agrawal, Personal Blog
Salesforce & Heroku Integration
In this post we will learn about how to Integrate Salesforce with Heroku and deploy app on Heroku platform.
— Abhirup Mukherjee, Apex Hours
Guide To Building And Deploying ML Web Applications Using Pycaret, Streamlit and Heroku
In this article, we will introduce a library called Pycaret to build the machine learning model, a library called streamlit to efficiently build a dashboard.
— Bhoomika Madhukar, Analytics India Magazine
Deploy Node Express App on Heroku: 8 Easy Steps
Deploy your Heroku app including nodejs buildpacks and environment variables with step-by-step explanation and code snippets.
— Naman Aggarwal, DZone
Deploying Algorithms on the Web with Flask and Heroku (for free)
In this article, I will guide you into deploying a simple algorithm on the web using Heroku. Deployment is entirely FREE, and you will only have to download some packages.
— Michelangiolo Mazzeschi, Towards AI
Q&A with Eli Lilly’s Software Engineering Lead: Focus on People, not Tech
Learn about why Eli Lilly started the cloud native journey, what the company has learned along the way and the specific compliance-related challenges they faced.
— Emily Omier, The New Stack
How to Deploy Streamlit on Heroku For Endless Possibilities in Data Science
A guide that walks through deploying Streamlit on Heroku.
— Sohaib Ahmad, towards data science
Predicting Reddit Flairs using Machine Learning and Deploying the Model on Heroku
Read this multi-part Reddit flair prediction series.
— Prakhar Rathi, towards data science
Continuous deployment of an Express GraphQL server to Heroku
Learn how to deploy a simple GraphQL server written in Node.js to Heroku via a continuous integration (CI) pipeline using CircleCI.
— Fikayo Adepoju, CircleCI blog
Continuous deployment of Gatsby apps to Heroku
Tutorial demonstrating how to deploy a Gatsby.js site to Heroku by building a continuous integration pipeline for its deployment using CircleCI.
— Fikayo Adepoju, CircleCI blog
Continuous deployment of Node apps to Heroku
Learn how to continuously deploy a Node.js application to Heroku with CircleCI.
— Fikayo Adepoju, CircleCI, CircleCI blog
React + Docker with Security in 10 Minutes
You've built a React app, but now you need to deploy it. Learn how.
— Matt Raible, Scotch
Heroku Logs – The Complete Guide
A guide to learn how to make the most of Heroku logs and create a centralized logging solution to solve production issues faster.
— Mark Ronald Moore, Coralogix, Log Analytics Blog
How to Deploy Your React App to Heroku
A step-by-step guide on how to use Heroku and Express to get your Create React App product up and running
— Daniel Stoica, Better Programming
Deploy an Nx Workspace to Heroku
In this article, I’ll show you how to deploy a basic full-stack web application from an Nx workspace to Heroku in eight main steps.
— Andrew Gilbert
CUBA to Heroku in 10 steps
See how to deploy a CUBA app to Heroku in ten steps (and probably ten minutes as well).
— Mario David
How to Dockerize a Node app and deploy to Heroku
How to dockerize a Fullstack app and deploy it to Heroku.
— Thiago Pacheco, dev.to
Create An API To Deploy Machine Learning Models Using Flask and Heroku
Machine Learning models are powerful tools to make predictions. To make these models useful, they need to easy to access. You can do that with Flask and Heroku.
— Elizabeth Ter Sahakyan, towards data science
Designing a Machine Learning model and deploying it using Flask on Heroku
From creating a machine learning model to deploying it on the web — a succinct guide.
— Ritvik Khanna, towards data science
How To Combine a NodeJS Back End with a ReactJS Front End App
How you can build the front and back end of a website using NodeJS for the back end and a front end application using React.
— Ethan Jarrell, Hacker Noon
Deploy Your React App To Heroku
A guide that walks through signing up for Heroku, setup of your React App for deployment, and how to create a Heroku git repository.
— Shakhor Smith, dev.to
How to deploy a simple Python app using nothing but Github and Heroku
This is a step-by-step guide to deploying your first Python app. It’s intended for a complete beginner.
— Austin Lasseter, Medium
Hosting a Discord.js bot for free using Heroku
Learn how to create an extremely basic Discord bot using Discord.js and hosting it, for free, on Heroku.
— Mason Spring, Medium
Easily deploy a Vue + Webpack App to Heroku in 5 Steps [tutorial]
This quick tutorial covers creating a vue project, creating a Heroku app, configuring the vue project so that Heroku can serve up the vue code, ending with push and deploy!
— Nick Manning, Netscape
How to Deploy Angular Application to Heroku
This article will show you guides on deploying your Angular 2/4 apps easily to Heroku, more importantly, avoiding common pitfalls.
— Olutunmbi Banto, ITNEXT
Tutorial: how to deploy a production React app to Heroku
A guide to deploying a simple production-ready React app to Heroku for any React app built with create-react-app.
— Jeremy Gottfried, Jeremy Gottfried’s tech blog
Production Django Deployments on Heroku
This article aims to simplify the process of deploying, maintaining, and scaling a production-grade Django app on Heroku.
— Michael Herman
Deploy a fresh Rails app to Heroku
See what it's like to deploy a new web app in 2020.
— Adam McCrea
Heroku vs AWS – Why Costs and Scale are Secondary Considerations
Demystify the differences between Heroku and AWS and learn how to think about the decision for your own project.
— Shane Rostad, TriFin Labs
How to run Nightwatch tests on Heroku Pipelines
End-to-End testing is an important part of every good continuous integration process. See how to integrate one tool, Nightwatch.js, into your Heroku build pipeline.
— Timon, Springer Ideas Engineering, gitconnected
Automating Rails Database Migrations on Heroku
Automate the running of database migrations on Heroku and, with Heroku Release Phase, guarantee that they are always run before the dependent code is released.
— Scott Bartell, Blog
[ES] Instalar Ghost en Heroku
A useful guide in Spanish on how to run a Ghost Blogging platform in Heroku
— Oscar Barajas Tavares, Arepa., Arepa.Dev
Heroku vs AWS – What’s Right For You?
Building on Heroku streamlines development, decreases costs, and provides businesses with enterprise-grade solutions without an enterprise budget.
— Peyton Gerken, RadialSpark, LinkedIn
A look inside the weather machine
How Hello Weather manages 100k requests per day with multiple data providers in real time with autoscaling and fallbacks.
— Trevor Turk, Hello Weather, Hello Weather blog
Améliorer les pratiques de développement avec Heroku
A part quelques exceptions, Heroku devrait être un no-brainer pour toute start-up qui a des problématiques d'hébergement.
— Robin, Dernier Cri, Dernier Cri blog
Heroku’s Journey to Automated Continuous Deployment
Learn about the challenges Heroku's engineering team faced on their journey from manual deployments to automated continuous deployments for Heroku Runtime.
— Hrishikesh Barua, InfoQ, InfoQ, DevOps News
How to Speed Up Heroku CI via In Dyno Databases
Learn how to enable In-Dyno databases for your Heroku CI/CD to speed up your tests
— Mike Rogers, mikerogers.io
What you need to know to pass the Heroku Architecture Designer exam
In studying for my retake, I was able to create a framework for me to truly understand the different aspects of Heroku, including Heroku Enterprise. Here’s what I learned
— Susannah Kate St-Germain, Awesome Architect
Connect the MuleSoft Database Connector to Heroku Postgres
The MuleSoft Database Connector provides the ability to easily connect to any database as long as you have the JDBC driver - see how to configure it to connect to Heroku.
— Dejim Juang, Mulesoft, DZone
Setting up Rails 6 app with multiple databases on Heroku
Rails 6 is just around the corner. When we create a new app, it is configured to use only one database. Learn more about switching to use multiple databases.
— Prathamesh Sonpatki, Memory.ai, Blog
Why I pick Heroku over AWS Lambda. But not always.
The short story: Developer experience trumps everything.
— Tim Nolet, Checkly, Checkly blog
Five reasons why hosting on Heroku benefits our customers
Running the software we build on Heroku is a great strategic decision for us as an agency. It allows us, as a relatively small team, to offer competitive hosting packages.
— Jamie Matthews, DabApps
Heroku Isn’t for Idiots
Heroku is for programmers who want to build applications.
— Randall Degges, Random Thoughts of a Happy Programmer
Play By Play: Understanding Heroku Myths and Magic
In this course, you'll learn what Heroku is, if Heroku is a good fit for your project, and why it has such a loyal following.
— Don Robins and Lyric Hartley, Pluralsight
To 30 Billion and Beyond
I decided that if I wanted to run ipify in a scalable, highly available and cheap way then Heroku was the simplest and best option: so that’s what I went with.
— Randall Degges, Random Thoughts of a Happy Programmer
Why DEV hosts on Heroku (and how we configure our service)
In a phrase, we've been using Heroku for years because it gives us our time back, and really doesn't need to be taught.
— Ben Halpern, DEV, dev.to
PaaS vs IaaS: Choosing the Right Technology for Your Project
Understanding your team’s biases, moving past them, and choosing the correct technology is critical. Is it a PaaS or IaaS? A PaaS and Heroku were the right choices for Ohana.
— Michael Bogan, dev.to
5 Foolish Reasons You’re Not Using Heroku
If you're not using Heroku for your cloud needs, maybe it's time to reconsider.
This article looks at why this is (and why it shouldn't be).
— Russell Smith, Rainforest QA, DZone
Building a Slackbot to Answer Analytics Questions From Your Database
Learn how to build a Slackbot to answer analytics questions from your database, or in other words, how to use a Lita chatbot to fetch data from Heroku Dataclips.
— Jason Skowronski, DZone
6 Myths About Heroku, Debunked
See why common misperceptions about Heroku, such as lack of control or vendor lock-in, are far from the truth.
— Toby Fee, dev.to
What does Unsplash Cost in 2019?
Learn what it takes to fund this growing open photography service and how Heroku provides cost advantages to its small, product-focused team.
— Luke Chesser, Unsplash, Unsplash blog
Our Minimum Viable Process for Changing and Deploying Software
This post highlights the ways Heroku underlies DrivenData's minimum viable process for web deployments.
— DrivenData, DrivenData blog
The Beauty of Heroku Connect: Simplifying Database Synchronization
Follow a student's journey to figuring out Salesforce integration, including his enlightening experience working with the cool features of Salesforce/Heroku/Rails.
— Wilson Wang, Blueprint, freeCodeCamp.org
Four Apps You Shouldn’t Build on Heroku
This article discusses four specific types of apps that are not good candidates for migrating to a cloud platform like Heroku.
— Toby Fee, author blog
No Ops Required: How Heroku Powers Fast, Modern App Innovation [Webinar]
This large org replaced their legacy systems and modernized their tech stack and business so they could better serve customers without spending time on complex ops.
— Trineo, Trineo blog
Heroku vs AWS
In this analysis, Heroku is noted for its simplicity and speed, allowing developers to build complex apps as quickly as possible, and to run those apps at scale.
— Eric Carmichael, CKC, CKC blog
The Myth of Heroku Lock-in
Many Heroku developers go from hobbyist to high-volume, but this is a choice. This article explains how Heroku apps are inherently portable from the start.
— Toby Fee, author blog
Switching to Heroku CI
Since April 2018, the Doctolib test suite has been running on Heroku CI. This post shares the motivation behind the switch, as well as the insights collected.
— Ivan Schneider, Doctolib, Doctolib blog
Tech Tales №2: Jonathan Lister Parsons, CTO at PensionBee
In this interview, Jonathan discusses how his tech stack on Heroku enables new ways of doing things and helps PensionBee drive change in the financial services industry.
— Ben Horsley-Summer, PensionBee, Kyan blog
Big on Heroku: Scaling Fountain Without Losing a Drop
Without the need to manage infrastructure, a small product team could focus all their energy on building features and attracting customers to a live product.
— Sergey Ponomarev and Anton Lee, Evil Martians, Evil Martians blog
An Infrastructure Journey
Heroku’s clean, automated workflow allowed Connect Space to build new ideas quickly, saved engineers time, and provided an easily scalable environment.
— Jeremy Wdowik, Connect Space, Connect Space blog
Open MCT: A Web-Based Mission Control Framework by NASA
Need an open source framework for data visualization and operations of systems producing telemetry data? Check out the great work from the team @NASA.
— @NASA, NASA, Open MCT app demo
How Heroku Private Spaces Provides Us with GDPR-Ready Infrastructure for Fast Deployments of Sensitive Data Services
Heroku's fast deployment process and cost-effective setup helped Voucherify launch and test new features, while removing the burden of configuration and monitoring.
— Mike Sedzielewski, Voucherify, Hacker Noon
At the Eye of the Storm: How I Helped Save People During the Disastrous Kerala Floods
In a mission critical scenario where every minute counts, learn why Heroku was the best choice for this disaster relief app.
— Biswas Tharakath, KeralaRescue, freeCodeCamp.org
From Prototype to Cloud: A Python Recipe Converter
This post outlines the development of a Python web application using Jupyter Lab, Flask, and the Heroku platform.
— Justin MK Lam, author blog
The Flask Mega-Tutorial Part XVIII: Deployment on Heroku
A step-by-step guide to deploying a web app, Microblog, to Heroku.
— Miguel Grinberg, author blog
How to Create and Deploy a Telegram Bot?
Learn how to build a very simple Telegram bot using Python and deploy it on Heroku.
— Django Stars, dev.to
Products
Heroku Platform
Heroku AI
Heroku Managed Inference and Agents
pgvector for Heroku Postgres
MCP on Heroku
Heroku Data Services
Heroku Postgres
Heroku Key-Value Store
Apache Kafka on Heroku
Heroku Enterprise
Heroku Private Spaces
Heroku Connect
Heroku Shield
Heroku Success
Heroku Teams
Elements Marketplace
Languages
Python
.NET
Java
Node.js
Go
PHP
Ruby
Scala
Clojure
Resources
Dev Center
Training & Education
Get Started
Pricing
Blog
Customers
Partners
Compliance Center
Solutions
Podcasts
About Us
What is Heroku?
Heroku & Salesforce
Careers
Help Center
Status
Contact
Rss
X-twitter-square
Github
Linkedin
日本語
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
Legal
Terms of Service
Privacy Information
Responsible Disclosure
Trust
Contact
Cookie Preferences
Your Privacy Choices
Sitemap
© Copyright 2025 Salesforce, Inc. All rights reserved. Various trademarks held by their respective owners. Salesforce Tower, 415 Mission Street, 3rd Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105, United States