$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks — Scattered Spider alumnus allegedly involved in over 120 computer network intrusions targeting 47 U.S. entities | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Cyber Security
U.S. places $11 million bounty on Ukrainian ransomware mastermind
Cyber Security
Rogue IT worker gets seven months in prison over $200,000 digital rampage
Cryptocurrency
FBI seizes $2.4 million in Bitcoin from member of recently ascendant Chaos ransomware group
Cyber Security
Russian pro basketball player gets the cuffs for allegedly being a member of ransomware gang
Cryptocurrency
$6 million Bitcoin theft lands cop five and a half years in prison
Cyber Security
German charity refuses to comply with Bitcoin ransomware demand
Cryptocurrency
Man behind $245m Bitcoin theft has bizarre tale that includes kidnapped parents, fraud, and money laundering
Cyber Security
US offers $10M reward for snitching on trio of Russians that hacked critical infrastructure
Cyber Security
158-year-old company forced to close after ransomware attack precipitated by a single guessed password
Cyber Security
UK to ban making ransomware payments for some organizations
Cyber Security
Leading phone repair and insurance firm collapses after paying crippling ransomware demand
Cyber Security
Hacker 'turf war' unfolding as Russian DragonForce ransomware gang drama could lead to double extortions
Cyber Security
29 North Korean laptop farms busted by U.S. Department of Justice
Cyber Security
JavaScript packages with billions of downloads were injected with malicious code in world's largest supply chain hack, geared to steal crypto
Cyber Security
Microsoft says China-based hackers exploiting critical SharePoint vulnerabilities to deploy Warlock ransomware
Tech Industry
Cybersecurity
$115 million ransomware hacker arrested over extortion attacks — Scattered Spider alumnus allegedly involved in over 120 computer network intrusions targeting 47 U.S. entities
News
By
Jon Martindale
published
19 September 2025
The British national is accused of hacking over 120 computer networks and attacking close to 50 different U.S. entities.
Comments (5)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Getty Images/Seksan Mongkhonkhamsao)
A teenage hacker from the UK has been arrested on charges of money laundering conspiracy, computer fraud, and wire fraud conspiracy, and stands accused of being part of a hacking group that extorted over $115 million from close to 50 victims in America, alongside various attacks in the UK, according to the Department of Justice. Alleged to be part of the infamous "Scattered Spider" hacking group, it seems that 19-year-old Thalha Jubair wasn't one of the lucky few who were able to ride off into the sunset after its retirement announcement earlier this month.Jubair is alleged to have been involved in at least 120 different computer network intrusions over a three-year period, starting in 2022. The complaint, filed with the District of New Jersey, accuses Jubair of targeting 47 U.S. entities. He and the group he was a part of, Scattered Spider, were well known for utilizing social engineering techniques to gain access to corporate networks and then steal data or use ransomware attacks to blackmail and extort the businesses for profit.Over just the past few years, Jubair is alleged to have extorted over $115 million from victims all over the world. Although the FBI Newark field office is investigating the case, it's doing so in conjunction with the UK National Crime Agency and City of London Police, as well as police agencies in the Netherlands, Romania, Canada, and Australia.
You may like
U.S. places $11 million bounty on Ukrainian ransomware mastermind
Rogue IT worker gets seven months in prison over $200,000 digital rampage
FBI seizes $2.4 million in Bitcoin from member of recently ascendant Chaos ransomware group
He also seems to have had particular involvement in controlling the money extracted from victims. Portions of the ransom payments were sent to cryptocurrency wallets controlled by Jubair. In July 2024, when law enforcement seized the server said to be storing the wallets containing cryptocurrency worth some $36 million, Jubair is alleged to have transferred some of those tokens, with a reported net worth of $8.4 million, to another wallet.“The arrest of Thalha Jubair underscores an undeniable truth: no matter how elusive or destructive these cyber-criminal syndicates are, we will continue to pursue those who allegedly extort our businesses and ensure they are held accountable,” said Special Agent in Charge Stefanie Roddy for the FBI.Jubair was arrested in London and was formally charged on September 18. Alongside the charges in U.S. courts, he also stands accused of an attack against Transport for London (TFL) infrastructure in August 2024, where customer data, including names, contact details, and addresses, were compromised.London police also arrested a fellow accused hacker, 18-year-old Owen Flowers, who also stands accused of involvement with the TFL hack. Flowers faces additional charges in the U.S., too, where he's accused of attacking health companies SSM Health Care Corporation and Sutter Health.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
TOPICS
Security
See all comments (5)
Jon MartindaleFreelance WriterJon Martindale is a contributing writer for Tom's Hardware. For the past 20 years, he's been writing about PC components, emerging technologies, and the latest software advances. His deep and broad journalistic experience gives him unique insights into the most exciting technology trends of today and tomorrow.
Read more
U.S. places $11 million bounty on Ukrainian ransomware mastermind
Rogue IT worker gets seven months in prison over $200,000 digital rampage
FBI seizes $2.4 million in Bitcoin from member of recently ascendant Chaos ransomware group
Russian pro basketball player gets the cuffs for allegedly being a member of ransomware gang
$6 million Bitcoin theft lands cop five and a half years in prison
German charity refuses to comply with Bitcoin ransomware demand
Latest in Cybersecurity
Pixie Dust wireless exploit lingers 11 years after initial disclosure
Shai-Hulud malware campaign dubbed 'the largest and most dangerous npm supply-chain compromise in history'
Modern memory is still vulnerable to Rowhammer vulnerabilities
Hacker ransomware groups announce retirement to enjoy their "golden parachutes"
Hacker breaks into on-campus smart washing machines
Compromised Google Calendar invites can hijack ChatGPT’s Gmail connector and leak emails
Latest in News
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
Microsoft Gaming Copilot hits Windows in public beta
AMD relaunches $40 Athlon 3000G CPU with new packaging and cooler
Borderlands 4 props come to 3D printing fans
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649
OpenAI is reportedly poaching Apple talent to build its first consumer hardware device
5 Comments
Comment from the forums
S58_is_the_goat
CIA: let's hire this kid...
Reply
TechieTwo
As we have seen in the past the U.K. doesn't like to extradite cyber criminals. For some reason they think this is just a game when people's lives can be destroyed or corporations ruined. The U.K. is lightyears behind on punishing cyber criminals.
As far as the CIA hiring this dude, he ain't that smart if he got caught. IMO we should NOT be rewarding criminals for their crimes. If he were to spend the next 35 years in a max security U.S. prison and work for the CIA from there with no special priviledges - maybe that would reduce his damage assessment.
Reply
USAFRet
S58_is_the_goat said:CIA: let's hire this kid...Other CIA person: No, we don't want this dude. Random script kiddie, too clueless to stay out of trouble.
Reply
93QSD5
S58_is_the_goat said:CIA: let's hire this kid...These ransomware attacks are not exploiting really ground breaking unknown vulnerabilities.
So there's nothing hireable.
Most of the time, these ransomware gangs just utilize RaaS anyway.
On top of that, these people have a lot of heat for barely anything to show for. Is this really a disciplined person who is deservant of covert keys and prolonged operations?
No.
Reply
lmcnabney
Since nothing seems to discourage this behavior maybe we should cut his hands off in addition to the jail time.
Reply
View All 5 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.