Critical Role Campaign 4 trailer teases a twist on the past
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The world of Aramán awaits this October
Critical Role's Campaign 4 trailer teases a broken world
By
Aimee Hart
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Gen V has found a villain worthy of The Boys
3 days ago
Hades returns to Game Pass this month
4 days ago
Silksong isn't stressful enough, it needs health bars
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
add iframe code inside nonscript tag for crwaler
Credit: Image: Critical Role
Critical Role has released the official trailer for the highly anticipated Campaign 4, which dares to ask: What comes next for those who live in a world where all the gods are dead? The multimedia company has been teasing drips and drabs of what players can expect from Campaign 4, with the latest being a reveal of the weird, wonderful, and yes, freakishly hot, cast of characters that will make up the 13-member adventuring party. Instead of roaming through Exandria, the fantasy world where Vox Machina (Campaign 1), The Mighty Nein (Campaign 2), and Bells Hells (Campaign 3) took place, this new adventure will take place in the world of Aramán. And as the trailer reveals, a lot is going on in this new world that has led it and its people to become fractured. The description for Campaign 4, highlighted by the trailer on YouTube, is as follows:
Hero to many. Enemy to some. When Thjazi Fang is marked for execution, various figures from across his remarkable life unite to uncover the truth behind his grim fate. In a land still suffering from the fallout of dead gods and living in the shadow of a tumultuous rebellion, these disparate people will come together across the fractured world of Aramán and connect in ways they never imagined. As hope and victory fade, a question hangs over Aramán. Without the Gods, what great deeds now fall to us? And who, or what, shall grab their crown for themselves?
"Various figures from across his remarkable life unite" seems to refer to the adventuring party, made up of the Critical Role founders Matthew Mercer, Laura Bailey, Taliesin Jaffe, Ashley Johnson, Liam O’Brien, Marisha Ray, Sam Riegel, and Travis Willingham, as well as newcomers to the main cast, Luis Carazo, Robbie Daymond, Aabria Iyengar, Whitney Moore, and Alex Ward. Leading them this time around will be award-winning storyteller and Game Master Brennan Lee Mulligan. Featuring a rotating tables format, and West Marches–inspired style of play, Campaign 4's tables will be distinct in style: there will be the Soldiers, the Seekers, and the Schemers. What we can expect from these tables has yet to be revealed, but we're eager to find out more when Critical Role Campaign 4 premieres on Oct. 2. Beacon users will have instant access on Beacon.tv, with simultaneous streams on Critical Role’s YouTube and Twitch channels. VODs will be available for all viewers the following Monday.
Critical Role
News
Entertainment
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
3 days ago
James Gunn says Green Lantern could beat Superman in a DCU showdown
3 days ago
The Sims 4's reality competition DLC is an awesome idea, with one potential catch
3 days ago
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting 4 Commander staples with incredible new Play-Doh art
4 days ago
Sonic Racing keeps throwing messy potshots at Mario Kart World
Most Popular
This anime fight is one of the best of all time, but not for the reason you might think
Demon Slayer: Infinity Castle reveals why not every anime can become a movie
Alien: Earth just pulled off a surprising first for the franchise's iconic monster
My most-played Switch 2 game is this roguelike you've never heard of
The best horror movie sequel of the year is finally streaming on Netflix
Sonic the Hedgehog is so back, but for real this time
See More
Trending Now
3 cute, extremely gory stories from the set of Primate
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
Valve apologizes to devs for ruining game's Steam launch
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.