Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs | Booking.com
Skip to main content
USD
Choose your currency.
Your current currency is U.S. Dollar
Choose your language.
Your current language is English (US)
Get help with your reservation
List your property
Register
Sign in
Stays
Flights
Flight + Hotel
Car rental
Attractions
Airport taxis
We’re here to help
Your safety matters. If you think the coronavirus (COVID-19) may affect your plans, visit our
Help Center or read more important info on the coronavirus here.
Government travel restrictions and advisories
Be sure to check for travel restrictions before booking and traveling to an accommodation. Touristic travel might not be allowed, as travel may only be permitted for certain purposes. To help you on your way, we included publicly available links to government websites for several countries around the world. However, not all countries are covered below. A country's absence from the overview does not mean it hasn't set any travel restrictions. We recommend searching for info on any country you're planning to visit. We are not responsible for the content of the public (government) websites linked below. Government responses continue to evolve, so check back for updates often and count on your national and local authorities for the most current info.
Travel restrictions and advisories in Africa
Egypt
Ghana
Kenya
Mauritius
Tunisia
South Africa
Travel restrictions and advisories in Asia-Pacific
American Samoa
Australia
Brunei
Bhutan
Cambodia
People's Republic of China
French Polynesia
Hong Kong
India
Indonesia
Japan
Laos
Macau
Malaysia
Maldives
Myanmar
Nepal
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Philippines
Singapore
South Korea
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Thailand
Vanuatu
Vietnam
Travel restrictions and advisories in Europe
For an overview of borders and available modes of transportation and tourism services in EU Member States, visit Re-open EU.
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Croatia
Czech Republic
Republic of Cyprus
Denmark
England
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Guernsey
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Jersey
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Montenegro
Netherlands
Northern Ireland
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia
Scotland
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
United Kingdom
Wales
Travel restrictions and advisories in Latin America and the Caribbean
Bahamas
Costa Rica
Dominican Republic
Jamaica
Mexico
Panama
Puerto Rico
Travel restrictions and advisories in the Middle East
Israel
Jordan
Oman
United Arab Emirates
Travel restrictions and advisories in North America
Canada
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland and Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Quebec 1, Quebec 2
Saskatchewan
Yukon
United States
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Travel restrictions and advisories in South America
Argentina
Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Ecuador
Paraguay
Peru
Uruguay
Booking conditions
For bookings made on or after April 6, 2020, consider the risk of the coronavirus (COVID-19) and its associated government measures. If you don’t book a flexible rate, you may not be entitled to a refund. Your cancellation request will be handled by the property based on your selected policy and consumer law, where applicable. During times of uncertainty, we recommend booking an option with free cancellation. If your plans change, you can cancel free of charge until free cancellation expires.
Booking.com accommodations
How can I get help with an existing reservation on Booking.com?
We understand you may want to change your plans due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) and its health implications. For further support, sign in to your Booking.com account and visit our Customer Service Help Center.
How do I cancel my booking in this situation?
For the best support, sign in to your Booking.com account. If you don't have one, you can use your booking confirmation number and PIN to sign in on a desktop or laptop.
If your booking is no longer free to cancel or non-refundable, you may incur a cancellation fee. Properties can also choose to change reservation dates at no extra cost, so contact the property to see if this is possible.
If your reservation was affected by coronavirus-related events (e.g. border closures or travel limitations placed by local authorities), but is no longer free to cancel or non-refundable, sign in and check your options for managing your reservation.
What is the cancellation policy related to the coronavirus?
You might be able to cancel due to the circumstances related to the coronavirus. However, it depends on several factors, including your destination, the date you made your booking, country of origin, arrival date, and reason for traveling.
If your cancellation falls under this category, the property has to provide a refund, offer a free date change, or credit you for a future stay.
Sign in and select the relevant booking to see your options.
Why doesn't the coronavirus impact the general policy for Booking.com?
Cancellation due to the coronavirus depends on several factors, including where you're traveling to, your country of origin, arrival date, and reason for traveling.
Individual reservation policies are set by the property you booked. As a result, it wouldn't be appropriate to make a universal change to our policy.
Can I move my booking to a future date?
Moving your booking to a future date depends on the reservation's policies. Sign in using either your Booking.com account or confirmation number and PIN, select the booking you want to change, and you’ll see what options are available.
You can also contact the property to ask for a date change.
Will I get charged additionally if I move my reservation to a future date?
If you change your dates and the property has availability, there may be a difference in price (higher or lower), which could be due to the season or different rates for weekdays versus weekends.
If rates are higher, you'll have to pay the difference between the original price and the one for your new dates. If they're lower, the price difference will be reflected in your booking.
How do I cancel or postpone a reservation I made through AGODA?
If you made a reservation via our sister company Agoda, you should refer to their site and apps for advice on making changes.
Visit Agoda for more info.
Can I give my reservation to someone else?
Contact the property directly if you want to transfer your reservation to someone else.
Each property has its own policies for this type of change to a reservation and can best inform you about them.
Booking.com attractions
How can I get help with an existing reservation on Booking.com?
We understand you may want to change your plans due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) and its health implications. For further support, sign in to your Booking.com account and visit our
Customer Service Help Center.
What should I do about my upcoming tickets for an attraction?
First check if your visit is still possible. Check the attraction provider’s and local authorities’ websites for info on current restrictions.
If your visit is no longer possible, you can
cancel your attraction booking here. For any other questions,
contact our customer service team.
Booking.com car rental
Renting a car from Booking.com and wondering how your booking may be affected by coronavirus? Here’s the latest info on what to do if you want to rent a car, or if you need to change or cancel your travel plans.
For up-to-date coronavirus info and the latest travel advice, consult your national government website or the World Health Organization.
For info on what car rental companies are doing to protect customers and staff, see our car rental safety guide.
Already booked a rental car?
You can change your booking anytime
If you already made a booking, you’re free to change the time and/or place.
You can go later – postpone your rental.
You can go somewhere else – choose a car in a different destination.
Whatever you decide, you can change your booking online or by contacting us.
You won’t pay any admin fees for changing your booking, though it may affect the rental price.
You can cancel your booking
If you or the rental counter are in an area that’s affected by travel restrictions, we’ll do everything we can to help. Just get in touch before your rental is scheduled for pick-up.
If you’re not directly affected by the coronavirus:
You can cancel the vast majority of Booking.com car rentals for free up to 48 hours before your scheduled pick-up time.
If you paid a deposit or booked a Dollar/Thrifty car, the rules are a little different.
Check your rental terms for details. Just access your booking, enter your email address and car reservation number, then scroll down to the rental company’s "Terms & Conditions." You’ll find the cancellation policy under "Important Info."
To cancel, just access your booking online or contact us.
If you're rethinking your travel due to coronavirus, remember you can change the timing or location of your car rental for free.
Thinking of booking a car?
With the vast majority of Booking.com car rental bookings, you can cancel for free up to 48 hours before your scheduled pick-up time. If you’re thinking about renting a car, you can always book it now, then change or cancel it later on.
Bought Full Protection Insurance?
Canceling your rental will automatically cancel your Full Protection Insurance, so you’ll get a refund of the insurance premium you paid.
If you cancel before your scheduled pick-up time, you’ll get your premium refunded in full.
If you cancel after your scheduled pick-up time, you’ll get a partial refund (as long as you’re canceling less than 14 days after buying the insurance). For example, if you cancel 4 days into an 8-day rental, you’ll get half your insurance premium back.
Driver's license expired or about to expire?
Renewing a driver's license during the coronavirus can be difficult, which is why various governments have agreed to extend many licenses that expire in 2020. When you pick your car up, the counter staff will apply the following rules when they check your license.
If you have a driver's license issued by the UK or any EU country except Italy:
If your license expired between February 1 and August 31, 2020, it will remain valid for 7 months after its expiration date.
If you have an Italian driver's license:
If your license expired before January 31, 2020, it’s no longer valid
If your license expired in June, July, or August 2020, it will remain valid for another 7 months after its expiration date
If your license expired or will expire in 2020, it will remain valid until December 31st, 2020.
Booking.com airport taxis
Here's the latest info on booking, changing, or canceling transportation with us during the coronavirus (COVID-19).
As the global situation evolves, we want to reassure you that nothing is more important to us than our customers' safety and wellbeing.
That's why we're working closely with our taxi partners around the world to help them follow the latest government advice on maintaining clean, hygienic environments for customers.
Just so you know, we're asking all customers to wear a face covering when traveling with us for health and safety reasons. Traveling without one may result in the driver refusing to start your ride.
I'd like to book a taxi, but what if my plans change?
All our taxi options are flexible. You can make a booking now and change or cancel it later if your plans are affected.
I can't take my taxi due to travel restrictions. What should I do about my booking?
If you can't travel due to local guidance or international restrictions, you can change or cancel your taxi booking up to 24 hours before the pick-up time.
How do I change my taxi booking?
Log in to My booking with the booking reference and email address used to book.
You can make changes up to 24 hours before the pick-up time.
How do I cancel my taxi booking?
If don't need your taxi anymore, you can cancel for free under most circumstances.
Log in to My booking or follow the "Manage my booking" link in your confirmation email.
If your taxi is in less than 24 hours, get in touch using our online contact form.
If you cancel your taxi at least 24 hours before the pick-up time, you'll get a full refund within 3 to 5 work days. It will be credited to the original payment method you used.
Getting in touch
If you have any questions about a taxi booking, use our online contact form. Our customer service team is available 24/7 and usually responds within 2 hours.
List your property
Mobile version
Your account
Make changes online to your booking
Customer Service Help
Become an affiliate
Booking.com for Business
Countries
Regions
Cities
Districts
Airports
Hotels
Places of interest
Homes
Apartments
Resorts
Villas
Hostels
B&Bs
Guest Houses
Unique places to stay
Reviews
Discover monthly stays
Travel articles
Seasonal and holiday deals
Traveller Review Awards
Car rental
Flight finder
Restaurant reservations
Booking.com for Travel Agents
Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs
About Booking.com
Customer Service Help
Partner help
Careers
Sustainability
Press Center
Safety Resource Center
Investor relations
Terms of Service
Partner dispute
How We Work
Privacy & cookie statement
Modern Slavery Statement
Human Rights Statement
Corporate contact
Content guidelines and reporting
Extranet Log-in
Copyright © 1996–2025
Booking.com™. All rights reserved.
Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services.
Start of dialog content
Verified reviews from real guests.
We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from real, verified guests.
How does it work?
1
It starts with a booking
It starts with a booking
The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property.
2
Followed by a trip
Followed by a trip
When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more.
3
And finally, a review
And finally, a review
After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site.
If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first.
Sign in and leave a review
End of dialog content
«
»
Su
Mo
Tu
We
Th
Fr
Sa
Close calendar
Sign in to continue
Sign in to your account
or use one of these options
Don't have an account yet? Create your account
2374450|1,2311730,2374380|5,2374380|1,2380360,2374450|5