My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
career feature
article
CAREER FEATURE
17 September 2025
My career switch from psychologist to open-science advocate
Kelly Cobey’s early career experiences sparked a campaigning zeal, now focused on predatory publishing and responsible research assessment.
By
Esme Hedley0
Esme Hedley
Esme Hedley is a science writer based in London.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Find a new job
Kelly Cobey, who provides training and advice on open-science practices, questions the ways in which research is carried out, incentivized and rewarded. Credit: Tony Caldwell/Ottawa Citizen/Postmedia Network Inc.
Working scientist profilesThis article is part of an occasional series in which Nature profiles scientists with unusual career histories or outside interests.In 2019, Jenna Keindel came across a research paper that would change her life. The Canadian, then aged 37, found it through a Facebook group of people affected by limb-girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD), a condition that causes progressive muscle weakness. Keindel was diagnosed with it when she was 16.The paper suggested that another condition, called anti-HMGCR myopathy, a rare autoimmune disease that causes severe muscle weakness, shared some symptoms with specific subtypes of LGMD and was sometimes misdiagnosed as LGMD.Keindel was struck by the similarity with her own symptoms. And because the paper was open access, and so free to view, she could read and digest the findings before sharing them with her clinical team at the Ottawa Hospital. They agreed it was worth testing her for the condition.“Doctors and specialists can’t possibly read every article that’s being published,” she says. “So, as a patient with a rare disease, you kind of have to also be a catalyst and a helper for finding those resources.” Six weeks later, her physician confirmed that Keindel did, in fact, have anti-HMGCR myopathy, not LGMD. Since receiving treatment to fit the new diagnosis, Keindel’s muscle deterioration has slowed considerably. She married in 2023 and now lives and works in Shawville, a small rural community in the northwest of Canada.Kelly Cobey, who directs the Metaresearch and Open Science Program at the University of Ottawa Heart Institute, celebrates Keindel’s story as evidence of the benefits of making research data accessible to everyone. Cobey’s work focuses on implementing open-science practices, promoting responsible research assessment and monitoring the quality of research reporting.Jenna Keindel’s clinical experiences demonstrated to Cobey the life-changing benefits of sharing research with people receiving care.Credit: Jenna KeindelLast year, Cobey’s work in this area, and her focus on advancing awareness of predatory journals, earned her the John Maddox Prize in the early-career category.A joint initiative between Nature and Sense about Science, a London-based charity, the award celebrates scientists who speak up for sound science in the face of challenges, and who inspire others to do the same.“We just cannot underestimate how empowering people with information can literally change the course of their life,” says Cobey of Keindel’s story. “Patients need to be active in decision-making and how they’re cared for."Cobey had first heard Keindel’s story in 2019, when she worked as an investigator and publications officer at the Ottawa Hospital’s Centre for Journalology. There, she spent half her time researching open science, research integrity, transparent research reporting and predatory journals, and the other half providing training and outreach on these topics. The leader of the hospital’s patient–partner network, a link person between individuals interested in taking part in research and researchers looking to engage such people, suggested that Keindel’s story would be a good fit for a series of webinars and blogs that Cobey was developing. The aim of these was to demonstrate the benefits, some of them life-changing, of making information available to people receiving care. Cobey dates her interest in open science and research assessment back to 2011, when she was studying for her PhD in social psychology at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands. That year Diederik Stapel, an acclaimed social psychologist at nearby Tilburg University, was suspended on suspicion of widespread data fabrication. In November of the following year, a report concluded that he had fabricated and manipulated data across 55 publications over 15 years, including in chapters of his PhD dissertation at the University of Amsterdam in 1997. “When this happened, some of my early-career colleagues, postdocs or assistant professors retracted major chunks of their CVs as a consequence,” Cobey recalls. The experience made her question how something like this could persist for so long. “I’m not saying open science will get at every sort of bad actor, but it was like, how was there no record, how was there no openness?”Working Scientist career profilesCobey decided to look for roles that would allow her to question how research is carried out, incentivized and rewarded. When, in 2015, she came across the role of investigator and publications officer at the journalology centre in Ottawa, she had never heard of meta-research, the practice of applying rigorous methods and analysis to the methods and procedures of research itself. The idea that the role would provide evidence to improve the research ecosystem appealed to her. She was also excited by the chance to teach about how to do and report research — topics that, typically, are not formally taught.Clinical epidemiologist David Moher, who leads the journalology centre, remembers being struck by Cobey’s focus on the importance of evidence when he interviewed her for the role. Six years later, she was appointed to her current position, in which a typical day involves offering informal support to institutions. This includes guiding them on providing feedback on proposed federal-policy consultations on open science.In her research programme, Cobey conducts a lot of audits on science policy. “In Canada, we have some really excellent science policies around open science, but if they’re not audited or monitored in any way, then what gets measured gets done and what doesn’t get measured doesn’t get done,” she says. For example, a 2023 paper1 that she co-authored found that only 3% of clinical trials in Canada met all three of the federally mandated criteria: prospective registration, reporting in the registry and publishing findings.Cobey also produces tools for researchers wanting to implement open-science practices, such as creating data-management-plan templates for study designs commonly used in biomedicine.A predatory problem
Cobey’s interest in publishing practices led her to investigate the phenomenon of predatory journals: those that accept articles for publication without performing promised quality checks, such as peer review, and often solicit articles aggressively and indiscriminately.In 2019, she co-authored a Comment article2 for Nature revealing that elite institutions, including Ivy League universities in the United States, were knowingly publishing in predatory journals. It called for researchers to be trained in how to select appropriate journals when submitting their work, and for a declaration on CVs that the individuals’ publication lists are free of predatory publications.Cobey thinks that the discussion around predatory journals has opened the door to making the practices of all journals more transparent. Partnering with the Public Knowledge Project at Simon Fraser University in Burnaby, Canada, Cobey has developed a tool called the Publication Facts Label (PFL). Inspired by food products’ nutrition labels, it lists information about the journal in which an article is published, including its acceptance rate; and about the article itself, such as the number of reviewers, details of the research funders and whether the data are available. The aim is to show whether journals or articles published using Open Journal Systems, a publication software platform used by more than 50,000 journals worldwide, adhere to scholarly standards..Research assessment toolkitKarim Khan, a physician and medical researcher based in Vancouver, leads the Institute of Musculoskeletal Health and Arthritis at the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, the country’s federal medical research funder. Khan says that Cobey makes organizations take a hard look at their clinical-practice guidelines and their consensus statements.Supporting her Maddox Prize entry, he commended her for “seeing what needs to be done before others do”, highlighting her efforts to define predatory journals and predatory conferences and provide ways for people to avoid them. The two worked together in 2019 with 41 other leading scholars and publishers who met in Ottawa to establish an agreed definition of predatory publishing. Khan says it was impressive to watch Kelly create a mutually supportive group culture and praises her remarkable knowledge of the literature. “It’s like having studied all of Shakespeare versus someone who knows that one of the stories had something to do with star-crossed lovers,” he says.Cobey’s Maddox Prize win also acknowledged her work with the Declaration On Research Assessment (DORA), a global initiative that aims to change the evaluation of scientific research outputs. It began in 2012, when a group of editors and publishers met to develop a set of recommendations to improve scholarly-research assessment. The idea was to encourage funders and institutions to move away from using publication in highly cited journals as the ultimate deciding factor of research merit. Now known as the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment, DORA covers all scholarly disciplines and has been signed by more than 26,000 individuals and organizations across 166 countries. Cobey joined the DORA advisory board in 2020, becoming co-chair three years later. In this role, she speaks regularly with policymakers at all levels to change how research is assessed. One of her outputs as co-chair is a guide to responsible research. It outlines steps for individuals to design and execute a responsible research-assessment strategy at their institutions.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02583-xThe 2025 John Maddox Prize winners will be announced on 29 October.Subscribe to Nature Briefing: Careers, an unmissable free weekly round-up of help and advice for working scientists.
ReferencesAlayche, M. et al. Facets https://doi.org/10.1139/facets-2022-0208 (2023).Article
Google Scholar
Grudniewicz, A. et al. Nature 576, 210–212 (2019).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Cobey, K. Nature 628, 9 (2024).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Download references
Related Articles
Working Scientist career profiles
Research assessment toolkit
The human costs of the research-assessment culture
Subjects
Epidemiology
Publishing
Research data
Careers
Latest on:
Epidemiology
Hotly anticipated US vaccine meeting ends with confusion — and a few decisions
News 20 SEP 25
Protests are infectious: mapping rural unrest in Revolutionary France
News & Views 09 SEP 25
An abiding mystery of the French Revolution is solved — by epidemiology
News 27 AUG 25
Publishing
How a mentoring connection boosted my ambitions for a science career
Career Column 19 SEP 25
‘Lipstick on a pig’: how to fight back against a peer-review bully
Career Feature 15 SEP 25
AI tool detects LLM-generated text in research papers and peer reviews
News 11 SEP 25
Research data
Using biobanks to boost research: a how-to guide
Technology Feature 10 SEP 25
AI-generated medical data can sidestep usual ethics review, universities say
News 10 SEP 25
Can a bold ‘social contract’ make data sharing more palatable?
Comment 08 SEP 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
Seeking a Postdoctoral Fellow to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which a new endolysin interacts with Gram-negative bacterial membranes.
Christchurch (Locality), Canterbury (NZ)
Biomolecular Interaction Centre, University of Canterbury
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
Related Articles
Working Scientist career profiles
Research assessment toolkit
The human costs of the research-assessment culture
Subjects
Epidemiology
Publishing
Research data
Careers
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited