Irish War of Independence - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Origins of the conflict
Toggle Origins of the conflict subsection
1.1
Home Rule Crisis
1.2
Easter Rising
1.3
First Dáil
2
Forces
Toggle Forces subsection
2.1
British
2.1.1
Military forces
2.1.2
Police forces
2.1.2.1
Paramilitary Police forces
2.2
Irish republican
3
Course of the war
Toggle Course of the war subsection
3.1
Pre-war violence
3.2
Initial hostilities
3.3
Violence spreads
3.4
Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) as special target
3.5
Collapse of the British administration
3.6
IRA organisation and operations
3.7
Martial law
3.8
Escalation: October–December 1920
3.9
Peak of violence: December 1920 – July 1921
4
Aftermath
Toggle Aftermath subsection
4.1
Truce: July–December 1921
4.2
Treaty
4.3
Irish Civil War
5
North-east
Toggle North-east subsection
5.1
Summer 1920
5.2
Spring–summer 1921
5.3
Early 1922
5.4
Summer 1922: Northern Offensive
6
Detention
7
Killing of alleged spies
8
Propaganda war
9
Casualties
10
Post-war evacuation of British forces
11
Compensation
12
Role of women in the war
13
Memorial
14
Cultural depictions
Toggle Cultural depictions subsection
14.1
Literature
14.2
Television and film
15
See also
Toggle See also subsection
15.1
Ireland
15.2
Other
16
References
Toggle References subsection
16.1
Bibliography
17
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Irish War of Independence
54 languages
العربيةAragonésAzərbaycancaবাংলাБеларускаяБългарскиCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתLietuviųМакедонскиBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskپنجابیپښتوPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийScotsShqipSimple EnglishSlovenčinaکوردیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaТатарча / tatarçaTürkçeУкраїнськаاردو中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
1919–1921 war between Irish and British forces
Irish War of IndependencePart of the Irish revolutionary periodSeán Hogan's flying column of the 3rd Tipperary Brigade, IRA during the warDate21 January 1919 – 11 July 1921(2 years, 5 months, 2 weeks and 6 days)LocationIrelandResult
See § AftermathTerritorialchanges
Creation of the Irish Free State and Northern Ireland
Partition of Ireland
British retain Berehaven, Spike Island and Lough SwillyBelligerents
Irish Republic
United KingdomCommanders and leaders
Military commanders:Michael CollinsRichard MulcahyCathal Brugha
Political leaders:Éamon de ValeraArthur Griffith
Military commanders:Sir Henry WilsonNevil Macready
Political leaders:David Lloyd GeorgeHamar GreenwoodUnits involved
Irish Republican Army
British Army
Royal Irish Constabulary
Black and Tans
Auxiliary Division
Ulster Special ConstabularyStrength
c. 15,000 IRA members
Total: c. 42,100c. 20,000 British Army18,100 Police9,700 RIC7,000 Black and Tans1,400 Auxiliaries4,000 USCCasualties and losses
491 dead[1]
24 executed
936 dead[1]523 RIC & USC413 British Army
About 900 civilians dead[1]Total deaths: c. 2,300vteIrish War of Independence
Timeline
Soloheadbeg
Knocklong
Holywell
Sack of Balbriggan
Rineen
Tooreen
Ballinalee
Piltown Cross
Tralee
Bloody Sunday (Dublin)
Kilmichael
Burning of Cork
Pickardstown
Drumcondra
Clonfin
Dromkeen
Upton
Clonmult
Coolavokig
Sheemore
Clonbanin
Kilfaul
Selton Hill
Burgery
Crossbarry
Headford
Scramoge
Tourmakeady
Kilmeena
Custom House
Carrowkennedy
Rathcoole
Coolacrease
Bloody Sunday (Belfast)
McMahon killings
Arnon Street killings
Dunmanway killings
vteIrish revolutionaryperiod (1912–1923)Events
Home Rule crisis (1912–14)
Curragh mutiny (1914)
Howth gun-running (1914)
Larne gun-running (1914)
Easter Rising (1916)
Conscription Crisis (1918)
War of Independence (1919–22)
1920 Cork hunger strike
The Troubles in Northern Ireland (1920–22)
Creation of Northern Ireland (1921)
Partition of Ireland (1920–22)
Anglo-Irish Treaty (1921)
Irish Civil War (1922–23)
1923 Irish hunger strikes
Irish Army Mutiny (1924)
Organisations
Irish Republican Brotherhood
Irish Parliamentary Party
Sinn Féin
Irish Volunteers
Irish Republican Army
Irish Citizen Army
Black and Tans
Ulster Unionist Party
Ulster Volunteer Force
Royal Irish Constabulary
Ulster Special Constabulary
The Irish War of Independence (Irish: Cogadh na Saoirse),[2] also known as the Anglo-Irish War,
was a guerrilla war fought in Ireland from 1919 to 1921 between the Irish Republican Army (IRA, the army of the Irish Republic) and British forces: the British Army, along with the quasi-military Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) and its paramilitary forces the Auxiliaries and Ulster Special Constabulary (USC). It was part of the Irish revolutionary period.
In April 1916, Irish republicans launched the Easter Rising against British rule and proclaimed an Irish Republic. Although it was defeated after a week of fighting, the Rising and the British response led to greater popular support for Irish independence. In the December 1918 election, republican party Sinn Féin won a landslide victory in Ireland. On 21 January 1919 they formed a breakaway government (Dáil Éireann) and declared Irish independence. That day, two RIC officers were killed in the Soloheadbeg ambush by IRA volunteers acting on their own initiative. The conflict developed gradually. For most of 1919, IRA activity involved capturing weaponry and freeing republican prisoners, while the Dáil set about building a state. In September, the British government outlawed the Dáil throughout Ireland, Sinn Féin was proclaimed (outlawed) in County Cork and the conflict intensified.[3] The IRA began ambushing RIC and British Army patrols, attacking their barracks and forcing isolated barracks to be abandoned. The British government bolstered the RIC with recruits from Britain—the Black and Tans and Auxiliaries—who became notorious for ill-discipline and reprisal attacks on civilians,[4] some of which were authorised by the British government.[5] Thus the conflict is sometimes called the "Black and Tan War".[6] The conflict also involved civil disobedience, notably the refusal of Irish railwaymen to transport British forces or military supplies.
In mid-1920, republicans won control of most county councils, and British authority collapsed in most of the south and west, forcing the British government to introduce emergency powers. About 300 people had been killed by late 1920, but the conflict escalated in November. On Bloody Sunday in Dublin, 21 November 1920, fourteen British intelligence operatives were assassinated; then the RIC fired on the crowd at a Gaelic football match in Croke Park, killing fourteen civilians and wounding sixty-five. A week later, the IRA killed seventeen Auxiliaries in the Kilmichael Ambush in County Cork. In December, the British authorities declared martial law in much of southern Ireland, and the centre of Cork city was burnt out by British forces in reprisal for an ambush. Violence continued to escalate over the next seven months; 1,000 people were killed and 4,500 republicans were interned. Much of the fighting took place in Munster (particularly County Cork), Dublin and Belfast, which together saw over 75 percent of the conflict deaths.[7]
The conflict in north-east Ulster had a sectarian aspect (see The Troubles in Ulster (1920–1922)). While the Catholic minority there mostly backed Irish independence, the Protestant majority were mostly unionist/loyalist. A mainly Protestant special constabulary was formed, and loyalist paramilitaries were active. They attacked Catholics in reprisal for IRA actions, and in Belfast a sectarian conflict raged in which almost 500 were killed, most of them Catholics.[8] In May 1921, Ireland was partitioned under British law by the Government of Ireland Act, which created Northern Ireland.
A ceasefire began on 11 July 1921. The post-ceasefire talks led to the signing of the Anglo-Irish Treaty on 6 December 1921. This ended British rule in most of Ireland and, after a ten-month transitional period overseen by the Provisional Government, the Irish Free State was created as a self-governing Dominion on 6 December 1922. Northern Ireland remained within the United Kingdom. After the ceasefire, violence in Belfast and fighting in border areas of Northern Ireland continued, and the IRA launched the failed Northern Offensive in May 1922. In June 1922, disagreement among republicans over the Anglo-Irish Treaty led to the eleven-month Irish Civil War. The Irish Free State awarded 62,868 medals for service during the War of Independence, of which 15,224 were issued to IRA fighters of the flying columns.[9]
Origins of the conflict[edit]
Home Rule Crisis[edit]
Main article: Irish Home Rule Movement
Since the 1870s, Irish nationalists in the Irish Parliamentary Party (IPP) had been demanding home rule, or self-government, from Britain, while not ruling out eventual complete independence. Fringe organisations, such as Arthur Griffith's Sinn Féin, instead argued for some form of immediate Irish independence, but they were in a small minority.[10]
The demand for home rule was eventually granted by the British government in 1912,[11] immediately prompting a prolonged crisis within the United Kingdom as Ulster unionists formed an armed organisation – the Ulster Volunteers (UVF) – to resist this measure of devolution, at least in territory they could control. In turn, nationalists formed their own paramilitary organisation, the Irish Volunteers.[12]
The British parliament passed the Government of Ireland Act 1914, known as the Home Rule Act, on 18 September 1914 with an amending bill for the partition of Ireland introduced by Ulster Unionist MPs, but the act's implementation was immediately postponed by the Suspensory Act 1914 due to the outbreak of the First World War in the previous month.[13] The majority of nationalists followed their IPP leaders and John Redmond's call to support Britain and the Allied war effort in Irish regiments of the New British Army, the intention being to ensure the commencement of home rule after the war.[14] However, a significant minority of the Irish Volunteers opposed Ireland's involvement in the war. The Volunteer movement split, a majority leaving to form the National Volunteers under Redmond. The remaining Irish Volunteers, under Eoin MacNeill, held that they would maintain their organisation until home rule had been granted. Within this Volunteer movement, another faction, led by the separatist Irish Republican Brotherhood, began to prepare for a revolt against British rule in Ireland.[15]
Easter Rising[edit]
Main article: Easter Rising
The plan for revolt was realised in the Easter Rising of 1916, in which the Volunteers launched an insurrection whose aim was to end British rule. The insurgents issued the Proclamation of the Irish Republic, proclaiming Ireland's independence as a republic.[16] The Rising, in which over four hundred people died,[17] was almost exclusively confined to Dublin and was put down within a week, but the British response, executing the leaders of the insurrection and arresting thousands of nationalist activists, galvanised support for the separatist Sinn Féin[18] – the party which the republicans first adopted and then took over as well as followers from Countess Markievicz, who was second-in-command of the Irish Citizen Army during the Easter Rising.[19] The British execution of the Rising's leaders also increased support in Ireland for both a violent uprising to achieve independence from British rule and an independent Irish republic. This support was further bolstered by the British government's decision to maintain martial law in Ireland until November 1916, the arrest of Irish critics of government policies and the possibility of conscription being extended to Ireland.[20]
First Dáil[edit]
Main article: First Dáil
Result of the 1918 UK general election in Ireland
In April 1918, the British cabinet, in the face of the crisis caused by the German spring offensive, attempted with a dual policy to simultaneously link the enactment of conscription into Ireland with the implementation of home rule, as outlined in the report of the Irish Convention of 8 April 1918. This further alienated Irish nationalists and produced mass demonstrations during the Conscription Crisis of 1918.[21] In the 1918 general election Irish voters showed their disapproval of British policy by giving Sinn Féin 70% (73 seats out of 105,) of Irish seats, 25 of those being uncontested.[22] Sinn Féin won 91% of the seats outside of Ulster on 46.9% of votes cast but was in a minority in Ulster, where unionists were in a majority. Sinn Féin pledged not to sit in the UK Parliament at Westminster, but rather to set up an Irish parliament.[23] This parliament, known as the First Dáil, and its ministry, called the Aireacht, consisting only of Sinn Féin members, met at the Mansion House on 21 January 1919. The Dáil reaffirmed the 1916 proclamation with the Irish Declaration of Independence,[24] and issued a Message to the Free Nations of the World, which stated that there was an "existing state of war, between Ireland and England". The Irish Volunteers were reconstituted as the "Irish Republican Army" or IRA.[25] The IRA was perceived by some members of Dáil Éireann to have a mandate to wage war on the British Dublin Castle administration.[citation needed]
Forces[edit]
British[edit]
Military forces[edit]
RIC and British Army personnel near Limerick, c. 1920
The heart of British power in Ireland was the Dublin Castle administration, often known to the Irish as "the Castle".[26] The head of the Castle administration was the lord lieutenant, to whom a chief secretary was responsible, leading—in the words of the British historian Peter Cottrell—to an "administration renowned for its incompetence and inefficiency".[26] Ireland was divided into three military districts. During the war, two British Army divisions, the 5th and the 6th divisions, were based in Ireland with their respective headquarters in the Curragh and Cork.[26] By July 1921 there were 50,000 British troops based in Ireland; by contrast there were 14,000 soldiers in metropolitan Britain.[27] While the British Army had historically been heavily dependent on Irish recruitment, concern over divided loyalties led to the redeployment from 1919 of all regular Irish regiments to garrisons outside Ireland itself.[28] There were also small groups of Royal Air Force personnel throughout the country as part of the 11th (Irish) Wing, but they were not permitted to use armed aircraft during the conflict.[29][30] There were also Royal Naval personnel, primarily at Cobh, County Cork, Haulbowline Royal Naval Dockyard, County Cork, and at Kingstown Royal Naval Shipyard, now Dún Laoghaire, County Dublin. There was also a battalion of the RMLI, sent to protect lighthouses, Coast Guard Stations and War Signal Stations. These latter forces only engaged when attacked.[31][32]
Police forces[edit]
The two main police forces in Ireland were the Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) and the Dublin Metropolitan Police (DMP).[33] Of the 17,000 policemen in Ireland, 513 were killed by the IRA between 1919 and 1921 while 682 were wounded.[33] Of the RIC's senior officers, 60% were Irish Protestants and the rest Catholic, while 70% of the rank and file of the RIC were Irish Catholic with the rest Protestant.[33] Although the RIC received training in the use of arms, their primary function was policing, not war.[34] There was also no specific counterinsurgent doctrine for the RIC to use at the time. Until March 1920, London regarded the unrest in Ireland as primarily an issue for the police and did not regard it as a war. Officially, the British government never classified the conflict as war.[35] The Army's function in Ireland was to assist the civil authority, when, in practice, it meant providing logistical, medical, and other support. It would not be until the early autumn of 1920 that the Army was permitted to undertake offensive action. In the course of the war, about a quarter of Ireland was put under martial law in late-November 1920, mostly in Munster and County Dublin; in the rest of the country British authority was not deemed sufficiently threatened to warrant it.[27][36]
Paramilitary Police forces[edit]
The British created three paramilitary police forces to supplement the work of the RIC, recruited mostly from World War I veterans. The first were the "Temporary Constables" (better known as the "Black and Tans" after their uniform colours).
They were demobilised servicemen from mainland Britain, who were sometimes given abbreviated training, and sent into the existing police stations. The first Black and Tans arrived in March 1920. The next group were the Temporary Cadets or Auxiliary Division (known as the "Auxies").[37][38][39] These men were former military officers recruited to act separate from the regular force. They were enrolled as officer cadets, with the effective rank of sergeant. The last group was the Ulster Special Constabulary (USC), which, as the name implies, functioned only in the counties of Ulster, and was recruited locally, almost entirely from the Loyalist/Protestant population. Unlike the Black and Tans and the Auxiliaries, the USC was separate from the RIC and had its own command. It was recruited extensively from the UVF and was known for its Anti-Catholicism.[40][41][42][43]
Irish republican[edit]
West Connemara IRA flying column
On 25 November 1913, the Irish Volunteers were formed by Eoin MacNeill in response to the paramilitary Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) that had been founded earlier in the year to fight against home rule.[44] Also in 1913, the Irish Citizen Army was founded by the trade unionists and socialists James Larkin and James Connolly following a series of violent incidents between trade unionists and the Dublin police in the Dublin lock-out.[45] In June 1914, Nationalist leader John Redmond forced the Volunteers to give his nominees a majority on the ruling committee. When, in September 1914, Redmond encouraged the Volunteers to enlist in the British Army, a faction led by Eoin MacNeill broke with the Redmondites, who became known as the National Volunteers, rather than fight for Britain in the war.[45] Many of the National Volunteers did enlist, and the majority of the men in the 16th (Irish) Division of the British Army had formerly served in the National Volunteers.[46] The Irish Volunteers and the Irish Citizen Army launched the Easter Rising against British rule in 1916, when an Irish Republic was proclaimed. Thereafter they became known as the Irish Republican Army (IRA). Between 1919 and 1921 the IRA claimed to have a total strength of 70,000, but only about 3,000 were actively engaged in fighting against the Crown.[47] The IRA distrusted those Irishmen who had fought in the British Army during the First World War, but there were exceptions, such as Emmet Dalton, Tom Barry and Martin Doyle.[47] The basic structure of the IRA was the flying column which could number between 20 and 100 men.[47] Finally, Michael Collins created the "Squad"—gunmen responsible to himself who were assigned special duties such as the assassination of policemen and suspected informers within the IRA.[47]
Course of the war[edit]
For a chronological guide, see Timeline of the Irish War of Independence.
Pre-war violence[edit]
The years between the Easter Rising of 1916 and the beginning of the War of Independence in 1919 were not bloodless. Thomas Ashe, one of the Volunteer leaders imprisoned for his role in the 1916 rebellion, died on hunger strike, after attempted force-feeding in 1917. In 1918, during disturbances arising out of the anti-conscription campaign, six civilians died in confrontations with the police and British Army and more than 1,000 people were arrested. There were raids for arms by the Volunteers,[48] and two Kerry Volunteers (John Brown and Robert Laide) were shot and killed on 16 April 1918 during a raid on the police barracks at Gortalea. Those men were the first Volunteers to be killed during a raid for arms.[49] At this time there was at least one shooting of a Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) policeman, and an RIC barracks in Kerry was burnt.[50] The attacks brought a British military presence from the summer of 1918, which only briefly quelled the violence, and an increase in police raids.[51] However, there was as yet no co-ordinated armed campaign against British forces or RIC. In County Cork, four rifles were seized from the Eyeries barracks in March 1918, and men from the barracks were beaten that August.[51] In early July 1918, Volunteers ambushed two RIC men who had been stationed to stop a feis being held on the road between Ballingeary and Ballyvourney in the first armed attack on the RIC since the Easter Rising; one was shot in the neck, the other beaten, and police carbines and ammunition were seized.[51][52] Patrols in Bantry and Ballyvourney were badly beaten in September and October. In November 1918, Armistice Day was marked by severe rioting in Dublin that left over 100 British soldiers injured.[53]
Initial hostilities[edit]
Police wanted poster for Dan Breen, one of those involved in the Soloheadbeg Ambush in 1919.
While it was not clear in the beginning of 1919 that the Dáil ever intended to gain independence by military means, and war was not explicitly threatened in Sinn Féin's 1918 manifesto,[54] an incident occurred on 21 January 1919, the same day as the First Dáil convened. The Soloheadbeg Ambush, in County Tipperary, was led by Seán Treacy, Séumas Robinson, Seán Hogan and Dan Breen acting on their own initiative. The IRA attacked and shot two RIC officers, Constables James McDonnell and Patrick O'Connell,[55] who were escorting explosives. Breen later recalled:
...we took the action deliberately, having thought over the matter and talked it over between us. Treacy had stated to me that the only way of starting a war was to kill someone, and we wanted to start a war, so we intended to kill some of the police whom we looked upon as the foremost and most important branch of the enemy forces. The only regret that we had following the ambush was that there were only two policemen in it, instead of the six we had expected.[56]
This is widely regarded as the beginning of the War of Independence.[57] The British government declared South Tipperary a Special Military Area under the Defence of the Realm Act two days later.[58] The war was not formally declared by the Dáil, and it ran its course parallel to the Dáil's political life. On 10 April 1919 the Dáil was told:
As regards the Republican prisoners, we must always remember that this country is at war with England and so we must in a sense regard them as necessary casualties in the great fight.[59]
In January 1921, two years after the war had started, the Dáil debated "whether it was feasible to accept formally a state of war that was being thrust on them, or not", and decided not to declare war.[60] Then on 11 March, Dáil Éireann President Éamon de Valera called for acceptance of a "state of war with England". The Dail voted unanimously to empower him to declare war whenever he saw fit, but he did not formally do so.[61]
Violence spreads[edit]
Wall plaque in Great Denmark Street, Dublin where the Dublin IRA Active Service Unit was founded.
Volunteers began to attack British government property, carry out raids for arms and funds and target and kill prominent members of the British administration. The first was Resident Magistrate John C. Milling, who was shot dead in Westport, County Mayo, for having sent Volunteers to prison for unlawful assembly and drilling.[62] They mimicked the successful tactics of the Boers' fast violent raids without uniform. Although some republican leaders, notably Éamon de Valera, favoured classic conventional warfare to legitimise the new republic in the eyes of the world, the more practically experienced Collins and the broader IRA leadership opposed these tactics as they had led to the military débacle of 1916. Others, notably Arthur Griffith, preferred a campaign of civil disobedience rather than armed struggle.[63]
During the early part of the conflict, roughly from 1919 to the middle of 1920, there was a relatively limited amount of violence. Much of the nationalist campaign involved popular mobilisation and the creation of a republican "state within a state" in opposition to British rule. British journalist Robert Lynd wrote in The Daily News in July 1920 that:
So far as the mass of people are concerned, the policy of the day is not active but a passive policy. Their policy is not so much to attack the Government as to ignore it and to build up a new government by its side.[64]
Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC) as special target[edit]
A group of RIC officers in 1917
The IRA's main target throughout the conflict was the mainly Irish Catholic Royal Irish Constabulary (RIC), the British government's armed police force in Ireland, outside Dublin. Its members and barracks (especially the more isolated ones) were vulnerable, and they were a source of much-needed arms. The RIC numbered 9,700 men stationed in 1,500 barracks throughout Ireland.[65]
A policy of ostracism of RIC men was announced by the Dáil on 11 April 1919.[62] This proved successful in demoralising the force as the war went on, as people turned their faces from a force increasingly compromised by association with British government repression.[66] The rate of resignation went up and recruitment in Ireland dropped off dramatically. Often, the RIC were reduced to buying food at gunpoint, as shops and other businesses refused to deal with them. Some RIC men co-operated with the IRA through fear or sympathy, supplying the organisation with valuable information. By contrast with the effectiveness of the widespread public boycott of the police, the military actions carried out by the IRA against the RIC at this time were relatively limited. In 1919, 11 RIC men and 4 Dublin Metropolitan Police G Division detectives were killed and another 20 RIC wounded.[67]
Other aspects of mass participation in the conflict included strikes by organised workers, in opposition to the British presence in Ireland. In Limerick in April 1919, a general strike was called by the Limerick Trades and Labour Council, as a protest against the declaration of a "Special Military Area" under the Defence of the Realm Act, which covered most of Limerick city and a part of the county. Special permits, to be issued by the RIC, would now be required to enter the city. The Trades Council's special Strike Committee controlled the city for fourteen days in an episode that is known as the Limerick Soviet.[68]
Similarly, in May 1920, Dublin dockers refused to handle any war matériel and were soon joined by the Irish Transport and General Workers' Union, who banned railway drivers from carrying members of the British forces. Blackleg train drivers were brought over from England, after drivers refused to carry British troops. The strike badly hampered British troop movements until December 1920, when it was called off.[69] The British government managed to bring the situation to an end, when they threatened to withhold grants from the railway companies, which would have meant that workers would no longer have been paid.[70] Attacks by the IRA also steadily increased, and by early 1920, they were attacking isolated RIC stations in rural areas, causing them to be abandoned as the police retreated to the larger towns.
Collapse of the British administration[edit]
In early April 1920, 400 abandoned RIC barracks were burned to the ground to prevent them being used again, along with almost one hundred income tax offices. The RIC withdrew from much of the countryside, leaving it in the hands of the IRA.[71] In June–July 1920, assizes failed all across the south and west of Ireland; trials by jury could not be held because jurors would not attend. The collapse of the court system demoralised the RIC and many police resigned or retired. In August 1920 the Chief Secretary for Ireland Hamar Greenwood reported that 556 Constables and 313 Magistrates had resigned within two-month period.[72] The Irish Republican Police (IRP) was founded between April and June 1920, under the authority of Dáil Éireann and the former IRA Chief of Staff Cathal Brugha to replace the RIC and to enforce the ruling of the Dáil Courts, set up under the Irish Republic. By 1920, the IRP had a presence in 21 of Ireland's 32 counties.[73] The Dáil Courts were generally socially conservative, despite their revolutionary origins, and halted the attempts of some landless farmers at redistribution of land from wealthier landowners to poorer farmers.[74]
The Inland Revenue ceased to operate in most of Ireland. People were instead encouraged to subscribe to Collins' "National Loan", set up to raise funds for the young government and its army.[75] By the end of the year the loan had reached £358,000. It eventually reached £380,000. An even larger amount, totalling over $5 million, was raised in the United States by Irish Americans and sent to Ireland to finance the Republic.[70] Rates were still paid to local councils but nine out of eleven of these were controlled by Sinn Féin, who naturally refused to pass them on to the British government.[74] By mid-1920, the Irish Republic was a reality in the lives of many people, enforcing its own law, maintaining its own armed forces and collecting its own taxes. The British Liberal journal, The Nation, wrote in August 1920 that "the central fact of the present situation in Ireland is that the Irish Republic exists".[64]
The British forces, in trying to re-assert their control over the country, often resorted to arbitrary reprisals against republican activists and the civilian population. An unofficial government policy of reprisals began in 1919 in Fermoy, County Cork, when 200 soldiers of the King's Shropshire Light Infantry looted and burned the main businesses of the town on 8 September, after a member of their regiment—who was the first British Army soldier to die in the war—was killed in an armed raid by local IRA volunteers[76] on a church parade the day before (7 September). The ambushers were members of a unit of the No. 2 Cork Brigade under the command of Liam Lynch, who also wounded four British soldiers and disarmed the rest before fleeing in their cars. The local coroner's inquest refused to return a murder verdict over the soldier and local businessmen who had sat on the jury were targeted in the reprisal.[77]
Arthur Griffith estimated that in the first 18 months of the conflict, British forces carried out 38,720 raids on private homes, arrested 4,982 suspects, committed 1,604 armed assaults, carried out 102 indiscriminate shootings and burnings in towns and villages, and killed 77 people including women and children.[78] In March 1920, Tomás Mac Curtain, the Sinn Féin Lord Mayor of Cork, was shot dead in front of his wife at his home, by men with blackened faces who were seen returning to the local police barracks. The jury at the inquest into his death returned a verdict of wilful murder against David Lloyd George (the British Prime Minister) and District Inspector Swanzy, among others. Swanzy was later tracked down and killed in Lisburn, County Antrim. This pattern of killings and reprisals escalated in the second half of 1920 and in 1921.[79]
IRA organisation and operations[edit]
Michael Collins
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2020) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Collins was a driving force behind the independence movement. Nominally the Minister of Finance in the Republic's government and IRA Director of Intelligence, he was involved in providing funds and arms to the IRA units and in the selection of officers. Collins' charisma and organisational capability galvanised many who came in contact with him. He established what proved an effective network of spies among sympathetic members of the Dublin Metropolitan Police's G Division and other important branches of the British administration. The G Division men were a relatively small political division active in subverting the republican movement. They were detested by the IRA as often they were used to identify volunteers, who would have been unknown to British soldiers or the later Black and Tans. Collins set up the "Squad", a group of men whose sole duty was to seek out and kill "G-men" and other British spies and agents. Collins' Squad began killing RIC intelligence officers in July 1919.[80] Many G-men were offered a chance to resign or leave Ireland by the IRA. One spy who escaped with his life was F. Digby Hardy, who was exposed by Arthur Griffith before an "IRA" meeting, which in fact consisted of Irish and foreign journalists, and then advised to take the next boat out of Dublin.[81]
The Chief of Staff of the IRA was Richard Mulcahy, who was responsible for organising and directing IRA units around the country.[82] In theory, both Collins and Mulcahy were responsible to Cathal Brugha, the Dáil's Minister of Defence, but, in practice, Brugha had only a supervisory role, recommending or objecting to specific actions. A great deal also depended on IRA leaders in local areas (such as Liam Lynch, Tom Barry, Seán Moylan, Seán Mac Eoin and Ernie O'Malley) who organised guerrilla activity, largely on their own initiative. For most of the conflict, IRA activity was concentrated in Munster and Dublin, with only isolated active IRA units elsewhere, such as in County Roscommon, north County Longford and western County Mayo.
While the paper membership of the IRA, carried over from the Irish Volunteers, was over 100,000 men, Collins estimated that only 15,000 were active in the IRA during the war, with about 3,000 on active service at any time. There were also support organisations Cumann na mBan (the IRA women's group) and Fianna Éireann (youth movement), who carried weapons and intelligence for IRA men and secured food and lodgings for them. The IRA benefitted from the widespread help given to them by the general Irish population, who generally refused to pass information to the RIC and the British military and who often provided "safe houses" and provisions to IRA units "on the run".
Much of the IRA's popularity arose from the excessive reaction of the British forces to IRA activity. When Éamon de Valera returned from the United States, he demanded in the Dáil that the IRA desist from the ambushes and assassinations, which were allowing the British to portray it as a terrorist group and to take on the British forces with conventional military methods. The proposal was immediately dismissed.
Martial law[edit]
A group of "Black and Tans" and Auxiliaries in Dublin, April 1921
The British increased the use of force; reluctant to deploy the regular British Army into the country in greater numbers, they set up two auxiliary police units to reinforce the RIC. The first of these, quickly nicknamed as the Black and Tans, were seven thousand strong and mainly ex-British soldiers demobilised after World War I. Deployed to Ireland in March 1920, most came from English and Scottish cities. While officially they were part of the RIC, in reality they were a paramilitary force. After their deployment in March 1920, they rapidly gained a reputation for drunkenness and poor discipline. The wartime experience of most Black and Tans did not suit them for police duties and their violent behavior antagonised many previously neutral civilians.[83]
In response to and retaliation for IRA actions, in the summer of 1920, the Tans burned and sacked numerous small towns throughout Ireland, including Balbriggan,[84] Trim,[85] Templemore[86] and others. In other acts of reprisal, between April and August 1920 over 100 mills, creameries and other economic targets were destroyed or burned.[87]
In July 1920, another quasi-military police body, the Auxiliaries, consisting of 2,215 former British army officers, arrived in Ireland. The Auxiliaries had a reputation just as bad as the Tans for their mistreatment of the civilian population but tended to be more effective and more willing to take on the IRA. The policy of reprisals, which involved public denunciation or denial and private approval, was famously satirised by Lord Hugh Cecil when he said: "It seems to be agreed that there is no such thing as reprisals but they are having a good effect."[88]
On 9 August 1920, the British Parliament passed the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act. It replaced the trial by jury by courts-martial by regulation for those areas where IRA activity was prevalent.[89]
On 10 December 1920, martial law was proclaimed in Counties Cork, Kerry, Limerick and Tipperary in Munster; in January 1921 martial law was extended to the rest of Munster in Counties Clare and Waterford, as well as counties Kilkenny and Wexford in Leinster.[90]
It also suspended all coroners' courts because of the large number of warrants served on members of the British forces and replaced them with "military courts of enquiry".[91] The powers of military courts-martial were extended to cover the whole population and were empowered to use the death penalty and internment without trial; Government payments to local governments in Sinn Féin hands were suspended. This act has been interpreted by historians as a choice by Prime Minister David Lloyd George to put down the rebellion in Ireland rather than negotiate with the republican leadership.[92] As a result, violence escalated steadily from that summer and sharply after November 1920 until July 1921. It was in this period that a mutiny broke out among the Connaught Rangers, stationed in India. Two were killed whilst trying to storm an armoury and one was later executed.[93]
Escalation: October–December 1920[edit]
British soldiers and relatives of the victims outside Jervis Street Hospital during the military enquiry into the Bloody Sunday shootings at Croke Park
A number of events dramatically escalated the conflict in late 1920. First the Lord Mayor of Cork, Terence MacSwiney, died on hunger strike in Brixton Prison in London in October, while two other IRA prisoners on hunger strike, Joe Murphy and Michael Fitzgerald, died in Cork Jail. The killing of an unarmed pregnant mother Eileen Quinn in County Galway on 1 November 1920 lead to public outrage inspiring two poems by W. B. Yeats and prompting Lady Gregory to write articles of condemnation.[94]
Sunday, 21 November 1920, was a day of dramatic bloodshed in Dublin that became known as Bloody Sunday. In the early morning, Collins' Squad attempted to wipe out leading British intelligence operatives in the capital, in particular the Cairo Gang, killing 16 men (including two cadets, one alleged informer, and one possible case of mistaken identity) and wounding five others. The attacks took place at different places (hotels and lodgings) in Dublin.[95]
In response, RIC men drove in trucks into Croke Park (Dublin's GAA football and hurling ground) during a football match, shooting into the crowd. Fourteen civilians were killed, including one of the players, Michael Hogan, and a further 65 people were wounded.[96] Later that day two republican prisoners, Dick McKee, Peadar Clancy and an unassociated friend, Conor Clune who had been arrested with them, were killed in Dublin Castle. The official account was that the three men were shot "while trying to escape", which was rejected by Irish nationalists, who were certain the men had been tortured and then murdered.[97]
On 28 November 1920, one week later, the West Cork unit of the IRA, under Tom Barry, ambushed a patrol of Auxiliaries at Kilmichael, County Cork, killing all but one of the 18-man patrol.
These actions marked a significant escalation of the conflict. In response, the counties of Cork, Kerry, Limerick, and Tipperary—all in the province of Munster—were put under martial law on 10 December under the Restoration of Order in Ireland Act; this was followed on 5 January in the rest of Munster and in counties Kilkenny and Wexford in the province of Leinster.[90] Shortly afterwards, in January 1921, "official reprisals" were sanctioned by the British and they began with the burning of seven houses in Midleton, County Cork. Questioned in the House of Commons in June 1921, Attorney-General for Ireland Denis Henry stated that he was informed by Commander-in-Chief Nevil Macready that 191 houses were destroyed in official reprisals in the area under martial law since January of that year.[98] In December 1920 Macready informed the Cabinet of the British Government that Military Governors in the martial law areas had been authorized to conduct reprisals.[99]
Aftermath of the burning of Cork by British forces
On 11 December, the centre of Cork City was burnt out by the Black and Tans, who then shot at firefighters trying to tackle the blaze, in reprisal for an IRA ambush in the city on 11 December 1920 which killed one Auxiliary and wounded eleven.[100] In May of that year, the IRA began a campaign of big house burnings which totaled 26 in Cork alone.[101]
Attempts at a truce in December 1920 were scuppered by Hamar Greenwood, who insisted on a surrender of IRA weapons first.[102]
Peak of violence: December 1920 – July 1921[edit]
During the following eight months until the Truce of July 1921, there was a spiralling of the death toll in the conflict, with 1,000 people including the RIC police, army, IRA volunteers and civilians, being killed in the months between January and July 1921 alone.[103] This represents about 70% of the total casualties for the entire three-year conflict. In addition, 4,500 IRA personnel (or suspected sympathisers) were interned in this time.[104] In the middle of this violence, de Valera (as President of Dáil Éireann) acknowledged the state of war with Britain in March 1921.[105]
Between 1 November 1920 and 7 June 1921 twenty-four men were executed by the British.[106] The first IRA volunteer to be executed was Kevin Barry, one of The Forgotten Ten who were buried in unmarked graves in unconsecrated ground inside Mountjoy Prison until 2001.[107] On 1 February, the first execution under martial law of an IRA man took place: Cornelius Murphy, of Millstreet in County Cork, was shot in Cork City. On 28 February, six more were executed, again in Cork.
On 19 March 1921, Tom Barry's 100-strong West Cork IRA unit fought an action against 1,200 British troops—the Crossbarry Ambush. Barry's men narrowly avoided being trapped by converging British columns and inflicted between ten and thirty killed on the British side. Just two days later, on 21 March, the Kerry IRA attacked a train at the Headford junction near Killarney. Twenty British soldiers were killed or injured, as well as two IRA men and three civilians. Most of the actions in the war were on a smaller scale than this, but the IRA did have other significant victories in ambushes, for example at Millstreet in Cork and at Scramogue in Roscommon, also in March 1921 and at Tourmakeady and Carrowkennedy in Mayo in May and June. Equally common, however, were failed ambushes, the worst of which, for example at Mourneabbey,[108] Upton and Clonmult in Cork in February 1921, saw six, three, and twelve IRA men killed respectively and more captured. The IRA in Mayo suffered a comparable reverse at Kilmeena, while the Leitrim flying column was almost wiped out at Selton Hill. Fears of informers after such failed ambushes often led to a spate of IRA shootings of informers, real and imagined.
The biggest single loss for the IRA, however, came in Dublin. On 25 May 1921, several hundred IRA men from the Dublin Brigade occupied and burned the Custom House (the centre of local government in Ireland) in Dublin city centre. Symbolically, this was intended to show that British rule in Ireland was untenable. However, from a military point of view, it was a heavy defeat in which five IRA men were killed and over eighty captured.[109] This showed the IRA was not well enough equipped or trained to take on British forces in a conventional manner. However, it did not, as is sometimes claimed, cripple the IRA in Dublin. The Dublin Brigade carried out 107 attacks in the city in May and 93 in June, showing a falloff in activity, but not a dramatic one. However, by July 1921, most IRA units were chronically short of both weapons and ammunition, with over 3,000 prisoners interned.[110] Also, for all their effectiveness at guerrilla warfare, they had, as Richard Mulcahy recalled, "as yet not been able to drive the enemy out of anything but a fairly good sized police barracks".[111]
Still, many military historians have concluded that the IRA fought a largely successful and lethal guerrilla war, which forced the British government to conclude that the IRA could not be defeated militarily.[112] The failure of the British efforts to put down the guerrillas was illustrated by the events of "Black Whitsun" on 13–15 May 1921. A general election for the Parliament of Southern Ireland was held on 13 May. Sinn Féin won 124 of the new parliament's 128 seats unopposed, but its elected members refused to take their seats. Under the terms of the Government of Ireland Act 1920, the Parliament of Southern Ireland was therefore dissolved, and executive and legislative authority over Southern Ireland was effectively transferred to the Lord Lieutenant (assisted by Crown appointees). Over the next two days (14–15 May), the IRA killed fifteen policemen. These events marked the complete failure of the British Coalition Government's Irish policy—both the failure to enforce a settlement without negotiating with Sinn Féin and a failure to defeat the IRA.
By the time of the truce, however, many republican leaders, including Collins, were convinced that if the war went on for much longer, there was a chance that the IRA campaign as it was then organised could be brought to a standstill. Because of this, plans were drawn up to "bring the war to England".[citation needed] The IRA did take the campaign to the streets of Glasgow.[113] It was decided that key economic targets, such as the Liverpool docks, would be bombed. The units charged with these missions would more easily evade capture because England was not under, and British public opinion was unlikely to accept, martial law. These plans were abandoned because of the truce.
Aftermath[edit]
Truce: July–December 1921[edit]
A crowd gathers at the Mansion House in Dublin in the days before the truce
The war of independence in Ireland ended with a truce on 11 July 1921. The conflict had reached a stalemate. Talks that had looked promising the previous year had petered out in December when Prime Minister of the United Kingdom David Lloyd George insisted that the IRA first surrender their arms. Fresh talks, after the Prime Minister had come under pressure from H. H. Asquith and the Liberal opposition, the Labour Party and the Trades Union Congress, resumed in the spring and resulted in the truce. From the point of view of the British government, it appeared as if the IRA's guerrilla campaign would continue indefinitely, with spiralling costs in British casualties and in money. More importantly, the British government was facing severe criticism at home and abroad for the actions of British forces in Ireland. On 6 June 1921, the British made their first conciliatory gesture, calling off the policy of house burnings as reprisals. On the other side, IRA leaders, and in particular Collins, felt that the IRA as it was then organised could not continue indefinitely. It had been hard pressed by the deployment of more regular British soldiers to Ireland and by the lack of arms and ammunition.
The initial breakthrough that led to the truce was credited to three people: King George V, Prime Minister of South Africa General Jan Smuts and David Lloyd George. The King, who had made his unhappiness at the behaviour of the Black and Tans in Ireland well known to his government, was dissatisfied with the official speech prepared for him for the opening of the new Parliament of Northern Ireland, created as a result of the partition of Ireland. Smuts, a close friend of the King, suggested to him that the opportunity should be used to make an appeal for conciliation in Ireland. The King asked him to draft his ideas on paper. Smuts prepared this draft and gave copies to the King and to Lloyd George. Lloyd George then invited Smuts to attend a British cabinet meeting consultations on the "interesting" proposals Lloyd George had received, without either man informing the Cabinet that Smuts had been their author. Faced with the endorsement of them by Smuts, the King and Lloyd George, the ministers reluctantly agreed to the King's planned "reconciliation in Ireland" speech.
The speech, when delivered in Belfast on 22 June, was universally well received. It called on "all Irishmen to pause, to stretch out the hand of forbearance and conciliation, to forgive and to forget, and to join in making for the land they love a new era of peace, contentment, and good will".[114]
On 24 June 1921, the British coalition government's cabinet decided to propose talks with the leader of Sinn Féin. Coalition Liberals and Unionists agreed that an offer to negotiate would strengthen the government's position if Sinn Féin refused. Austen Chamberlain, the new leader of the Unionist Party, said that "the King's Speech ought to be followed up as a last attempt at peace before we go the full lengths of martial law".[115] Seizing the momentum, Lloyd George wrote to Éamon de Valera as "the chosen leader of the great majority in Southern Ireland" on 24 June, suggesting a conference.[116] Sinn Féin responded by agreeing to talks. De Valera and Lloyd George ultimately agreed to a truce that was intended to end the fighting and lay the ground for detailed negotiations. Its terms were signed on 9 July and came into effect on 11 July. Negotiations on a settlement, however, were delayed for some months as the British government insisted that the IRA first decommission its weapons, but this demand was eventually dropped. It was agreed that British troops would remain confined to their barracks.
Most IRA officers on the ground interpreted the truce merely as a temporary respite and continued recruiting and training volunteers. Nor did attacks on the RIC or British Army cease altogether. Between December 1921 and February of the next year, there were 80 recorded attacks by the IRA on the soon-to-be disbanded RIC, leaving 12 dead.[117] On 18 February 1922, Ernie O'Malley's IRA unit raided the RIC barracks at Clonmel, taking 40 policemen prisoner and seizing over 600 weapons and thousands of rounds of ammunition.[118] In April 1922, in the Dunmanway killings, an IRA party in Cork killed 10 local suspected Protestant informers in retaliation for the shooting of one of their men. Those killed were named in captured British files as informers before the truce signed the previous July.[119] Over 100 Protestant families fled the area after the killings.[citation needed]
Treaty[edit]
Members of the Irish negotiation committee returning to Ireland in December 1921
Ultimately, the peace talks led to the negotiation of the Anglo-Irish Treaty (6 December 1921), which was then ratified in triplicate: by Dáil Éireann on 7 January 1922 (so giving it legal legitimacy under the governmental system of the Irish Republic), by the House of Commons of Southern Ireland in January 1922 (so giving it constitutional legitimacy according to British theory of who was the legal government in Ireland), and by both Houses of the British parliament.[120][121]
The Treaty allowed Northern Ireland, which had been created by the Government of Ireland Act 1920, to opt out of the Free State if it wished, which it duly did on 8 December 1922 under the procedures laid down. As agreed, an Irish Boundary Commission was then created to decide on the precise location of the border of the Free State and Northern Ireland.[122] The republican negotiators understood that the commission would redraw the border according to local nationalist or unionist majorities. Since the 1920 local elections in Ireland had resulted in outright nationalist majorities in County Fermanagh, County Tyrone, the City of Derry and in many district electoral divisions of County Armagh and County Londonderry (all north and west of the "interim" border), this might well have left Northern Ireland unviable. However, the Commission chose to leave the border unchanged; as a trade-off, the money owed to Britain by the Free State under the Treaty was cancelled (see Partition of Ireland).[123]
A new system of government was created for the new Irish Free State, though for the first year two governments co-existed; an Dáil Ministry headed by President Griffith, and a Provisional Government nominally answerable to the House of Commons of Southern Ireland and appointed by the Lord Lieutenant.[124]
Irish Civil War[edit]
Further information: Irish Civil War
Most of the Irish independence movement's leaders were willing to accept this compromise, at least for the time being, though many militant republicans were not. A majority[citation needed] of the pre-Truce IRA who had fought in the War of Independence, led by Liam Lynch, refused to accept the Treaty and in March 1922 repudiated the authority of the Dáil and the new Free State government, which it accused of betraying the ideal of the Irish Republic. It also broke the Oath of Allegiance to the Irish Republic which the Dáil had instated on 20 August 1919.[125] The anti-Treaty IRA were supported by the former president of the Republic, Éamon de Valera, and ministers Cathal Brugha and Austin Stack.[126]
The funeral of Michael CollinsSt. Mary's Pro-Cathedral, Dublin, August 1922
While the violence in the North was still raging, the South of Ireland was preoccupied with the split in the Dáil and in the IRA over the Treaty. In April 1922, an executive of IRA officers repudiated the Treaty and the authority of the Provisional Government which had been set up to administer it. These republicans held that the Dáil did not have the right to disestablish the Irish Republic. A hardline group of anti-Treaty IRA men occupied several public buildings in Dublin in an effort to bring down the Treaty and restart the war with the British. There were a number of armed confrontations between pro and anti-Treaty troops before matters came to a head in late June 1922.[121] Desperate to get the new Irish Free State off the ground and under British pressure, Collins attacked the anti-Treaty militants in Dublin, causing fighting to break out around the country.[121]
The subsequent civil war lasted until mid-1923 and cost the lives of many of the leaders of the independence movement, notably the head of the Provisional Government Michael Collins, ex-minister Cathal Brugha, and anti-Treaty republicans Harry Boland, Rory O'Connor, Liam Mellows, Liam Lynch and many others: total casualties have never been determined but were perhaps higher than those in the earlier fighting against the British. President Arthur Griffith also died of a cerebral haemorrhage during the conflict.[127]
Following the deaths of Griffith and Collins, W. T. Cosgrave became head of government. On 6 December 1922, following the coming into legal existence of the Irish Free State, W. T. Cosgrave became President of the Executive Council, the first internationally recognised head of an independent Irish government.[citation needed]
The civil war ended in mid-1923 in defeat for the anti-Treaty side.[128]
North-east[edit]
Main article: The Troubles in Ulster (1920–1922)
Conflict deaths in Belfast 1920–1922.   50–100 deaths per km2   100–150 deaths per km2   over 150 deaths per km2
The conflict in the north-east had a sectarian aspect. While Ireland as a whole had an Irish nationalist and Catholic majority, Unionists and Protestants were a majority in the north-east, largely due to 17th century British colonization. These Ulster Unionists wanted to maintain ties to Britain and did not want to be part of an independent Ireland. They had threatened to oppose Irish home rule with violence. The British government proposed to solve this by partitioning Ireland on roughly political and religious lines, creating two self-governing territories of the UK: Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland. Irish nationalists opposed this, most of them supporting the all-island Irish Republic.
The IRA carried out attacks on British forces in the north-east, but was less active than in the south. Protestant loyalists attacked the Catholic community in reprisal. There were outbreaks of sectarian violence from June 1920 to June 1922, influenced by political and military events. Most of it was in the city of Belfast, which saw "savage and unprecedented" communal violence between Protestants and Catholics.[129] In the Belfast violence, Hibernians were more involved on the Catholic/nationalist side than the IRA,[130] while groups such as the Ulster Volunteers were involved on the Protestant/loyalist side. There was rioting, gun battles and bombings. Almost 1,000 homes and businesses were destroyed and people were expelled from workplaces and mixed neighbourhoods. More than 500 were killed[131] and more than 10,000 became refugees, most of them Catholics.[132] The British Army was deployed and the Ulster Special Constabulary (USC) was formed to help the regular police. The USC was almost wholly Protestant and some of its members carried out reprisal attacks on Catholics.[133] Conflict continued in Northern Ireland after the July 1921 truce; both communal violence in Belfast and guerrilla conflict in rural border areas.[134]
Irish nationalists argued that the violence around Belfast was a pogrom against Catholics/nationalists, as Catholics were a quarter of the city's population but made up two-thirds of those killed, suffered 80% of the property destruction and made up 80% of refugees.[131] Historian Alan Parkinson says the term 'pogrom' is misleading, as the violence was not all one-sided nor co-ordinated.[135] The Irish government estimated that 50,000 left Northern Ireland permanently due to violence and intimidation.[136]
Summer 1920[edit]
Catholic-owned businesses destroyed by loyalists in Lisburn, August 1920.
While the IRA was less active in the north-east than in the south, Ulster unionists saw themselves as besieged by Irish republicans. The January and June 1920 local elections saw Irish nationalists and republicans win control of many northern urban councils, as well as Tyrone and Fermanagh county councils. Derry City had its first Irish nationalist and Catholic mayor.[137]
Fighting broke out in Derry on 18 June 1920 and lasted a week. Catholic homes were attacked in the mainly Protestant Waterside, and Catholics fled by boat across the Foyle while coming under fire. In the Cityside, Loyalists fired from the Fountain neighbourhood into Catholic streets, while the IRA occupied St Columb's College and returned fire. At least fourteen Catholics and five Protestants were killed in the violence.[138] Eventually, 1,500 British troops were deployed in Derry and imposed a curfew.[139]
On 17 July, British Colonel Gerald Smyth was assassinated by the IRA in Cork. He had allegedly told police officers to shoot civilians who did not immediately obey orders.[140] Smyth came from Banbridge, County Down. Loyalists retaliated by attacking many Catholic homes and businesses in Banbridge and expelling Catholics from their jobs, forcing many to flee the town.[141] There were similar attacks in nearby Dromore.[142]
On 21 July, loyalists drove 8,000 "disloyal" co-workers from their jobs in the Belfast shipyards, all of them either Catholics or Protestant labour activists. Some were viciously attacked.[143] This was partly in response to recent IRA actions and partly because of competition over jobs due to high unemployment. It was fuelled by rhetoric from Unionist politicians. In his Twelfth of July speech, Edward Carson had called for loyalists to take matters into their own hands, and had linked republicanism with socialism and the Catholic Church.[144] The expulsions sparked fierce sectarian rioting in Belfast, and British troops used machine-guns to disperse rioters. By the end of the day, eleven Catholics and eight Protestants were killed and hundreds wounded.[143] Catholic workers were soon driven out of all major Belfast factories. In response, the Dáil approved the 'Belfast Boycott' of Unionist-owned businesses and banks in the city. It was enforced by the IRA, who halted trains and lorries and destroyed goods.[145]
On 22 August, the IRA assassinated RIC Inspector Oswald Swanzy as he left church in Lisburn. Swanzy had been implicated in the killing of Cork Mayor Tomás Mac Curtain. In revenge, loyalists burned and looted hundreds of Catholic businesses and homes in Lisburn, forcing many Catholics to flee (see the Burnings in Lisburn). As a result, Lisburn was the first town to recruit special constables. After some of them were charged with rioting, their colleagues threatened to resign, and they were not prosecuted.[146]
Unionist leader James Craig.
In September, Unionist leader James Craig wrote to the British government demanding that a special constabulary be recruited from the ranks of the Ulster Volunteers. He warned, "Loyalist leaders now feel the situation is so desperate that unless the Government will take immediate action, it may be advisable for them to see what steps can be taken towards a system of organised reprisals against the rebels".[147] The USC was formed in October and, in the words of historian Michael Hopkinson, "amounted to an officially approved UVF".[147]
Spring–summer 1921[edit]
The Lord Lieutenant inspecting troops outside Belfast City Hall on the day Northern Ireland's parliament first met.
After a lull in violence in the North, the conflict there intensified again in spring 1921. In February, as reprisal for the shooting of a Special Constable, USC and UVF men burned ten Catholic homes and a priest's house in Rosslea, County Fermanagh.[148] The following month, the IRA attacked the homes of sixteen Special Constables in the Rosslea district, killing three and wounding others.[149]
The Act of Partition came into force on 3 May 1921.[150] That month, James Craig secretly met Éamon de Valera in Dublin. They discussed the possibility of a truce in Ulster and an amnesty for prisoners. Craig proposed a compromise of limited independence for the South and autonomy for the North within the UK. The talks came to nothing and violence in the North continued.[151] Elections to the Northern parliament were held on 24 May, in which Unionists won most seats. Its parliament first met on 7 June and formed a devolved government, headed by Craig. Republican and nationalist members refused to attend. King George V addressed the ceremonial opening of the Northern parliament on 22 June.[150] The next day, a train carrying the king's armed escort, the 10th Royal Hussars, was derailed by an IRA bomb at Adavoyle, County Armagh. Five soldiers and a train guard were killed, as were fifty horses. A civilian bystander was also shot dead by British soldiers.[152]
Loyalists condemned the truce as a 'sell-out' to republicans.[153] On 10 July, a day before the ceasefire was to begin, police launched a raid against republicans in west Belfast. The IRA ambushed them on Raglan Street, killing an officer. This sparked a day of violence known as Belfast's Bloody Sunday. Protestant loyalists attacked Catholic enclaves in west Belfast, burning homes and businesses. This led to sectarian clashes between Protestants and Catholics, and gun battles between police and nationalists. The USC allegedly drove through Catholic enclaves firing indiscriminately.[154] Twenty people were killed or fatally wounded (including twelve Catholics and six Protestants) before the truce began at noon on 11 July.[155] After the truce came into effect on 11 July, the USC was demobilized (July–November 1921). The void left by the demobilized USC was filled by loyalist vigilante groups and a revived UVF.[156]
There were further outbreaks of violence in Belfast after the truce. Twenty people were killed in street fighting and assassinations from 29 August to 1 September 1921 and another thirty were killed from 21 to 25 November. Loyalists had by this time taken to throwing bombs randomly into Catholic streets and the IRA responded by bombing trams carrying Protestant workmen.[157]
Early 1922[edit]
Despite the Dáil's acceptance of the Anglo-Irish Treaty in January 1922, which confirmed the future existence of Northern Ireland, there were clashes between the IRA and British forces along the new border from early 1922. In part, this reflected Collins' view that the Treaty was a "stepping stone", rather than a final settlement. That month, Collins became head of the new Irish Provisional Government and the Irish National Army was founded, though the IRA continued to exist.[158]
In January 1922, members of the Monaghan Gaelic football team were arrested by Northern police on their way to a match in Derry. Among them were IRA volunteers with plans to free IRA prisoners from Derry prison. In response, on the night of 7–8 February, IRA units crossed the border and captured almost fifty Special Constables and prominent loyalists in Fermanagh and Tyrone. They were to be held as hostages for the Monaghan prisoners. Several IRA volunteers were also captured during the raids.[159] This operation had been approved by Michael Collins, Richard Mulcahy, Frank Aiken and Eoin O'Duffy.[160] The Northern Ireland authorities responded by sealing-off many cross-border roads.[161]
In February and March 1922,
violence in the North reached levels that had not been seen before. Between 11 February and 31 March, 51 Catholics were killed with 115 wounded, with 32 Protestants killed and 86 wounded.[162] On 11 February, IRA volunteers stopped a group of armed Special Constables at Clones railway station, County Monaghan. The USC unit was travelling by train from Belfast to Enniskillen (both in Northern Ireland), but the Provisional Government was unaware that British forces would be crossing through its territory. The IRA called on the Specials to surrender for questioning, but one of them shot dead an IRA sergeant. This sparked a firefight in which four Specials were killed and several wounded. Five others were captured.[163] The incident threatened to set off a major confrontation between North and South, and the British government temporarily suspended the withdrawal of British troops from the South. The Border Commission was set up to mediate in any future border disputes, but achieved very little.[164]
These incidents provoked retaliation attacks by loyalists against Catholics in Belfast, sparking further sectarian clashes. In the three days after the Clones incident, more than 30 people were killed in the city, including four Catholic children and two women who were killed by a loyalist grenade on Weaver Street.[164]
On 18 March, Northern police raided IRA headquarters in Belfast, seizing weapons and lists of IRA volunteers. The Provisional Government condemned this as a breach of the truce.[165] Over the next two weeks, the IRA raided several police barracks in the North, killed several officers and captured fifteen.[165][166]
On 24 March, six Catholics were shot dead by Special Constables who broke into the home of the McMahon family. This was in revenge for the IRA killing of two policemen.[167] A week later, six more Catholics were killed by Specials in another revenge attack, known as the Arnon Street massacre.[168]
Winston Churchill had arranged a meeting between Collins and James Craig on 21 January and the southern boycott of Belfast goods was lifted but then re-imposed after several weeks. The two leaders had further meetings, but despite a joint declaration that "peace is declared" on 30 March, violence continued.[169]
Summer 1922: Northern Offensive[edit]
Still from the 1922 topical silent film 'Battle of Belleek' showing British troops with a captured IRA flag after the recapture of the village
In May 1922 the IRA launched a Northern Offensive, secretly backed by Collins, head of the Irish Provisional Government. By this time, the IRA was split over the Anglo-Irish Treaty, but both pro and anti-Treaty units were involved. Some weaponry sent by the British to arm the National Army were in fact given to IRA units and their weapons sent to the North.[170] However, the offensive was a failure. An IRA Belfast Brigade report in late May concluded that continuing the offensive was "futile and foolish" and would "place the Catholic population at the mercy of the Specials".[171]
In April and May 1922, the IRA's Third Northern Division (under the command of Seamus Woods and Roger McCorley) conducted attacks on over 86 commercial premises in Belfast leading to £500,000 in damages.[172] Multiple RIC barracks were attacked including the RIC Belfast Headquarters (Musgrave Street Barracks). After the 22 May assassination of West Belfast Unionist MP William Twaddell, the Northern government introduced internment and 350 IRA men were arrested in Belfast, crippling its organisation there.[173] The biggest clash of the IRA offensive was the Battle of Pettigo and Belleek, which ended with British troops using artillery to dislodge around 100 IRA volunteers from the border villages of Pettigo and Belleek, killing three volunteers. This was the last major confrontation between the IRA and British forces during the revolutionary period.[174] The cycle of sectarian violence in Belfast continued. In May, 75 people were killed in Belfast and another 30 in June. Several thousand Catholics fled the violence and sought refuge in Glasgow and Dublin.[175] On 17 June, in revenge for the killing of two Catholics by Specials, Frank Aiken's IRA unit shot dead six Protestant civilians in Altnaveigh, south Armagh. Three Specials were also ambushed and killed.[176]
Collins held Field Marshal Sir Henry Wilson, MP for North Down, responsible for the attacks on Catholics in the North and may have been behind his assassination in June 1922, though who ordered the shooting is unproven.[177] The event helped to trigger the Irish Civil War. Winston Churchill insisted after the killing that Collins take action against the Anti-Treaty IRA, whom he assumed to be responsible.[178] The outbreak of civil war in the south ended the violence in the North, as the war demoralised the northern IRA and diverted the organisation from the issue of partition. The Irish Free State quietly ended Collins' policy of covert armed action in Northern Ireland.
The violence in the North was over by late 1922.[179]
Detention[edit]
See also: 1923 Irish hunger strikes
Ballykinlar internment camp was the first mass internment camp in Ireland during the Irish War of Independence holding almost 2,000 men.[180] Ballykinlar gained a reputation for brutality: three prisoners were shot dead and five died from maltreatment.[181]
At HM Prison Crumlin Road in Belfast, Cork County Gaol (see 1920 Cork hunger strike) and Mountjoy jail in Dublin some of the political prisoners went on hunger strike. In 1920 two Irish republicans died as a result of hunger strikes—Michael Fitzgerald d. 17 October 1920 and Joe Murphy d. 25 October 1920.[182]
Irish republican internees at Ballykinlar Internment Camp 1920
Conditions during internment were not always good—during the 1920s, the vessel HMS Argenta was moored in Belfast Lough and used as a prison ship for the holding of Irish republicans by the British government after Bloody Sunday. Cloistered below decks in cages which held 50 internees, the prisoners were forced to use broken toilets which overflowed frequently into their communal area. Deprived of tables, the already weakened men ate off the floor, frequently succumbing to disease and illness as a result. There were several hunger strikes on the Argenta, including a major strike involving upwards of 150 men in the winter of 1923.[183]
Killing of alleged spies[edit]
See also: Dunmanway killings
In recent decades, attention has been drawn to the IRA's killing of civilians in the south, who they alleged were informers. Several historians, notably Peter Hart have alleged that those killed in this manner were often simply considered "enemies" rather than being proven informers. Especially vulnerable, it is argued, were Protestants, ex-soldiers and tramps. "It was not merely (or even mainly) a matter of espionage, spies and spy hunters, it was a civil war between and within communities".[184] The notion that sectarianism was a factor in a majority of killings has been criticised, with opposing historians contending that Protestant victims were killed for their resistance to republican goals rather than their religious beliefs.[185][101]
Victims' bodies were often disfigured and left with notes that alleged espionage, claimed responsibility and/or discouraged similar deception.[185] Their hair forcefully removed, women were more often disfigured than killed, instead marked as supposed traitors.[185]
Propaganda war[edit]
The symbol of the Republic:The Irish tricolour which dated back to the Young Ireland rebellion of 1848
A symbol of British rule:The standard of the Lord Lieutenant, using the union flag created under the Act of Union 1800
Another feature of the war was the use of propaganda by both sides.[186]
The British government also collected material on the liaison between Sinn Féin and Soviet Russia, in an unsuccessful attempt to portray Sinn Féin as a crypto-communist movement.[187]
The Catholic Church hierarchy was critical of the violence of both sides, but especially that of the IRA, continuing a long tradition of condemning militant republicanism. The Bishop of Kilmore, Patrick Finegan, said: "Any war... to be just and lawful must be backed by a well grounded hope of success. What hope of success have you against the mighty forces of the British Empire? None... none whatever and if it unlawful as it is, every life taken in pursuance of it is murder."[188] Thomas Gilmartin, the Archbishop of Tuam, issued a letter saying that IRA men who took part in ambushes "have broken the truce of God, they have incurred the guilt of murder".[189] However, in May 1921, Pope Benedict XV dismayed the British government when he issued a letter that exhorted the "English as well as Irish to calmly consider . . . some means of mutual agreement", as they had been pushing for a condemnation of the rebellion.[190] They declared that his comments "put HMG (His Majesty's Government) and the Irish murder gang on a footing of equality".[190]
Desmond FitzGerald and Erskine Childers were active in producing the Irish Bulletin, which detailed government atrocities which Irish and British newspapers were unwilling or unable to cover. It was printed secretly and distributed throughout Ireland, and to international press agencies and US, European and sympathetic British politicians.
While the military war made most of Ireland ungovernable from early 1920, it did not actually remove British forces from any part. But the success of Sinn Féin's propaganda campaign reduced the option of the British government to deepen the conflict; it worried in particular about the effect on British relations with the US, where groups like the American Committee for Relief in Ireland had so many eminent members. The British cabinet had not sought the war that had developed since 1919. By 1921 one of its members, Winston Churchill, reflected:
What was the alternative? It was to plunge one small corner of the empire into an iron repression, which could not be carried out without an admixture of murder and counter-murder.... Only national self-preservation could have excused such a policy, and no reasonable man could allege that self-preservation was involved.[191]
Casualties[edit]
Monument to IRA fighters in Phibsborough, Dublin
According to The Dead of the Irish Revolution, 2,346 people were killed or died as a result of the conflict. This counts a small number of deaths before and after the war, from 1917 until the signing of the Treaty at the end of 1921. Of those killed, 919 were civilians, 523 were police personnel, 413 were British military personnel, and 491 were IRA volunteers[1] (although another source gives 550 IRA dead).[67] About 44% of these British military deaths were by misadventure (such as accidental shooting) and suicide while on active service, as were 10% of police losses and 14% of IRA losses.[192] About 36% of police personnel who died were born outside Ireland.[192]
At least 557 people were killed in political violence in what became Northern Ireland between July 1920 and July 1922. Many of these deaths took place after the truce that ended fighting in the rest of Ireland. Of these deaths, between 303 and 340 were Catholic civilians, between 172 and 196 were Protestant civilians, 82 were police personnel (38 RIC and 44 USC), and 35 were IRA volunteers. Most of the violence took place in Belfast: at least 452 people were killed there – 267 Catholics and 185 Protestants.[193]
Post-war evacuation of British forces[edit]
Soldiers of a British cavalry regiment leaving Dublin in 1922
By October 1921 the British Army in Ireland numbered 57,000 men, along with 14,200 RIC police and some 2,600 auxiliaries and Black and Tans. The long-planned evacuation from dozens of barracks in what the army called "Southern Ireland" started on 12 January 1922, following the ratification of the Treaty and took nearly a year, organised by General Nevil Macready. It was a huge logistical operation, but within the month Dublin Castle and Beggars Bush Barracks were transferred to the Provisional Government. The RIC last paraded on 4 April and was formally disbanded on 31 August. By the end of May the remaining forces were concentrated in Dublin, Cork and Kildare. Tensions that led to the Irish Civil War were evident by then and evacuation was suspended. By November about 6,600 soldiers remained in Dublin at 17 locations. Finally on 17 December 1922 The Royal Barracks (now housing collections of the National Museum of Ireland) was transferred to General Richard Mulcahy and the garrison embarked at Dublin Port that evening.[194]
Compensation[edit]
In May 1922 the British Government with the agreement of the Irish Provisional Government established a commission chaired by Lord Shaw of Dunfermline to examine compensation claims for material damage caused between 21 January 1919 and 11 July 1921.[195] The Irish Free State's Damage To Property (Compensation) Act, 1923 provided that only the Shaw Commission, and not the Criminal Injury Acts, could be used to claim compensation.[196] Originally, the British government paid claims from unionists and the Irish government those from nationalists; claims from "neutral" parties were shared.[197] After the 1925 collapse of the Irish Boundary Commission, the UK, Free State and Northern Ireland governments negotiated revisions to the 1921 Treaty; the Free State stopped contributing to the servicing of the UK national debt, but took over full responsibility for compensation for war damage, with the fund increased by 10% in 1926.[198] The Compensation (Ireland) Commission worked until March 1926, processing thousands of claims.[197]
Role of women in the war[edit]
Constance Markievicz was a member of the Irish Citizen Army and fought in the Easter Rising. In 1919 she was appointed Minister for Labour in the Government of the Irish Republic
Although most of the fighting was carried out by men, women played a substantial supporting role in the Irish War of Independence. Before the Easter Rising of 1916, many Irish nationalist women were brought together through organisations fighting for women's suffrage, such as the Irish Women's Franchise League.[199] The republican socialist Irish Citizen Army promoted gender equality and many of these women—including Constance Markiewicz, Madeleine ffrench-Mullen, and Kathleen Lynn—joined the group.[200] In 1914, the all-female paramilitary group Cumann na mBan was launched as an auxiliary of the Irish Volunteers. During the Easter Rising, some women participated in fighting and carried messages between Irish Volunteer posts while under fire from British troops.[201] After the rebel defeat, Éamon de Valera opposed the participation of women in combat and they were limited to supporting roles.[202]
During the conflict, women hid IRA volunteers being sought by the British, nursed wounded volunteers, and gathered money to help republican prisoners and their families. Cumann na mBan engaged in undercover work to set back the British war effort. They smuggled guns, ammunition, and money to the IRA; Kathleen Clarke smuggled gold worth £2,000 from Limerick to Dublin for Collins.[203] Because they sheltered wanted men, many women were subject to raids on their homes by British forces, with acts of sexual violence sometimes being reported but not confirmed.[202] Intimidation was more commonly applied to women than physical violence.[204] It is estimated that there were between 3,000 and 9,000 members of Cumann na mBan during the war, and in 1921 there were 800 branches throughout the island. It is estimated that fewer than 50 women were imprisoned by the British during the war.[203]
Memorial[edit]
A memorial called the Garden of Remembrance was erected in Dublin in 1966, on the fiftieth anniversary of the Easter Rising. The date of signing of the truce is commemorated by the National Day of Commemoration, when all those Irish men and women who fought in wars in specific armies (e.g., the Irish unit(s) fighting in the British Army in 1916 at the Battle of the Somme) are commemorated.
The last survivor of the conflict, Dan Keating (of the IRA), died in October 2007 at the age of 105.[205]
Cultural depictions[edit]
Literature[edit]
1923 – The Shadow of a Gunman, play by Seán O'Casey
1929 – The Last September, novel by Elizabeth Bowen
1931 – Guests of the Nation, short story by Frank O'Connor
1970 – Troubles, novel by J. G. Farrell
1979 – The Old Jest, novel by Jennifer Johnston, winner of the Whitbread Award
1991 - "Amongst Women", novel by John McGahern
2010 – The Soldier's Song, novel by Alan Monaghan
Television and film[edit]
Main article: List of Irish revolutionary period films
1926 – Irish Destiny, silent film
1929 – The Informer, part-talkie film
1934 – The Key, American Pre-Code film
1935 – The Informer, John Ford film
1936 – The Dawn, Irish film (also called Dawn Over Ireland)
1936 – Ourselves Alone, British film
1936 – Beloved Enemy, American drama film
1937 – The Plough and the Stars, John Ford film
1959 – Shake Hands with the Devil, feature film
1975 – Days of Hope, 1916: Joining Up
1988 – The Dawning, film, based on Jennifer Johnston's The Old Jest
1989 – The Shadow of Béalnabláth (1989) RTÉ TV Documentary by Colm Connolly about the life and death of Michael Collins.
1991 – The Treaty
1996 – Michael Collins, feature film
1999 – The Last September
2001 – Rebel Heart, BBC miniseries. The theme music of the same name was composed by Sharon Corr.
2002 – An Deichniúr Dearmadta (The Forgotten Ten) a TG4 TV Documentary
2006 – The Wind That Shakes the Barley, feature film
2014 – A Nightingale Falling, film
2019 – Resistance, five-part RTÉ miniseries
See also[edit]
Ireland[edit]
Irish nationalism
Irish republicanism
The Troubles
List of conflicts in Ireland
Military history of Ireland
Home Rule Crisis
United Ireland
Other[edit]
Welsh rebellions against English rule
Wars of Scottish Independence
Scottish independence
Welsh independence
Aftermath of World War I
Revolutions of 1917–1923
References[edit]
^ a b c d Eunan O'Halpin & Daithí Ó Corráin. The Dead of the Irish Revolution. Yale University Press, 2020. p. 544
^ Heatherly, Christopher J. (2012). Cogadh Na Saoirse: British Intelligence Operations During the Anglo-Irish War, 1916–1921 (reprint ed.). BiblioBazaar. ISBN 9781249919506. Archived from the original on 29 December 2020. Retrieved 22 December 2014.
^ Townshend 1975, p. 31.
^ Dinan, Brian (1987). Clare and its people. Dublin: The Mercier Press. p. 105. ISBN 085342-828-X.
^ Coleman, Marie (2013). The Irish Revolution, 1916–1923. Routledge. pp. 86–87.
^ "The Black and Tan War – Nine Fascinating Facts About the Bloody Fight for Irish Independence". Militaryhistorynow.com. 9 November 2015. Archived from the original on 28 March 2019. Retrieved 15 January 2018.; "Irishmedals.org". Irishmedals.org. Archived from the original on 12 June 2018. Retrieved 15 January 2018.; "Michael Collins: A Man Against an Empire". HistoryNet. 12 June 2006. Archived from the original on 17 November 2017. Retrieved 15 January 2018.
^ "Eunan O'Halpin on the Dead of the Irish Revolution". Theirishistory.com. 10 February 2012. Archived from the original on 27 July 2019. Retrieved 15 January 2018.
^ O'Halpin, Eunan (2012). "Counting Terror". In Fitzpatrick, David (ed.). Terror in Ireland. p. 152.
^ Richardson, Neil (2010). A Coward if I return, a Hero if I fall: Stories of Irishmen in World War I. Dublin: O'Brien. p. 13.
^ "Ireland – The rise of Fenianism". Encyclopedia Britannica. Archived from the original on 3 May 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ "Government of Ireland Bill". api.parliament.uk. Archived from the original on 3 March 2019. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ "Ireland – The 20th-century crisis". Encyclopedia Britannica. Archived from the original on 3 May 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ Coleman, Marie. (2013). The Irish Revolution, 1916–1923. Hoboken: Taylor and Francis. p. 9. ISBN 978-1-317-80147-4. OCLC 864414854.
^ "BBC – John Redmond". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 2 February 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ O'Riordan, Tomás: UCC Multitext Project in Irish History John Redmond Archived 28 March 2016 at the Wayback Machine
^ "BBC – The Proclamation". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 24 February 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ 1916 Necrology Archived 14 December 2017 at the Wayback Machine. Glasnevin Trust Archived 5 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine.
^ "BBC – Sinn Féin". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 25 September 2015. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ "Countess Markievicz – 'The Rebel Countess'" (PDF). Irish Labour History Society. Archived (PDF) from the original on 18 April 2020. Retrieved 17 December 2017.
^ "BBC – The rise of Sinn Féin". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 4 February 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ "'A Declaration of War on the Irish People' The Conscription Crisis of 1918". The Irish Story. Archived from the original on 6 May 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ "Election 1918 – what you need to know about how Ireland voted". rte.ie. 11 December 2018. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.; O'Toole, Fintan. "Fintan O'Toole: The 1918 election was an amazing moment for Ireland". The Irish Times. Archived from the original on 20 September 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ "The End of the British Empire in Ireland". Public Record Office, The National Archives. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ Kautt, William Henry (1999). The Anglo-Irish War, 1916–1921: A People's War. Greenwood Publishing Group. p. 131. ISBN 978-0275963118. Archived from the original on 16 August 2021. Retrieved 30 August 2015. And Whereas the Irish Republic was proclaimed in Dublin on Easter Monday, 1916, by the Irish Republican Army acting on behalf of the Irish people...Now, therefore, we, the elected Representatives of the ancient Irish people in National Parliament assembled, do, in the name of the Irish nation, ratify the establishment of the Irish Republic...
^ "BBC – The Irish Volunteer Force/Irish Republican Army". www.bbc.co.uk. Archived from the original on 3 December 2019. Retrieved 30 April 2020.
^ a b c Cottrell 2006, p. 18.
^ a b Cottrell 2006, p. 19.
^ Murphy, David (2007). Irish Regiments in the World Wars. Bloomsbury USA. p. 28. ISBN 978-1-84603-015-4.
^ Hayes, Karl (1988). A History of the Royal Air Force and United States Naval Air Service in Ireland 1913-1923 (1st ed.). Dublin: Irish Air Letter. ISBN 0950823112.
^ Richardson, Reverend Dr (Squadron Leader) David (1 November 2016). "The Royal Air Force and the Irish War of Independence, 1918-1922". Air Power Review. 19 (3): 11–33 – via Centre for Air and Space Power Studies.
^ General Staff (1922). Record of the Rebellion in Ireland, 1920-21, and the Part Played by the Army in Dealing with it (B1605-2, copy 46 ed.). London: General Staff, Irish Command. p. 250.
^ General Staff 6th Divsion (2009). McCarthy, Patrick (ed.). The Irish Rebellion in the 6th Divisional Area. The Military History Society of Ireland. pp. 92, 102, 144, 146, 148, 165.{{cite book}}:
CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link)
^ a b c Cottrell 2006, p. 20.
^ Cottrell 2006, pp. 49–52.
^ Cottrell 2006, p. 54.
^ Kautt, William H. (2010). Ambushes and armour: the Irish rebellion 1919-1921. Dublin ; Portland, OR: Irish Academic Press. p. 19. ISBN 978-0-7165-3024-4.
^ Herlihy, Jim (2021). The Black and Tans, 1920-1921: A Complete Alphabetical List, Short History and Genealogical Guide. Portland: Four Courts Press. ISBN 978-1-84682-987-1.
^ Leeson, David M. (2011). The Black and Tans: British police and the auxiliaries in the Irish war of independence, 1920-1921. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-959899-1.
^ McCall, Ernest (2010). The Auxiliaries: Tudor's toughs. Newtownards, Co. Down, Northern Ireland: Red Coat Publishers. p. 39. ISBN 9780953836734.
^ Cottrell 2006, p. 21.
^ Lawlor, Pearse (2011). The outrages, 1920-1922: the IRA and the Ulster Special Constabulary in the border campaign. Cork: Mercier. pp. 54–6, 102–03, 190. ISBN 978-1-85635-806-4.
^ Lynch, Robert John (2015). Revolutionary Ireland, 1912-25. London: Bloomsbury Academic. p. 101. ISBN 978-1-4411-5704-1.
^ Bowman, Timothy (2017). Carson's army: The Ulster Volunteer Force, 1910--22. Manchester University Press. pp. 195, 198. ISBN 978-0-7190-7371-7.
^ Cottrell 2006, p. 24.
^ a b Cottrell 2006, p. 26.
^ Cottrell 2006, p. 25.
^ a b c d Cottrell 2006, p. 28.
^ Townshend, Charles (2006). Easter 1916, The Irish Rebellion. Ivan R. Dee. p. 338. ISBN 9781566637046.
^ Macardle, Dorothy (1965). The Irish Republic. New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux. p. 243.
^ Dwyer, T. Ryle (2001). Tans Terror and Troubles, Kerry's Real Fighting Story 1916–1923. Mercier Press. ISBN 9781856353533.
^ a b c Hart, Peter (2016) [1998]. The I.R.A. and Its Enemies, Violence and Community in Cork, 1916–1923. OUP Oxford. pp. 62–63. ISBN 9780198208068.
^ Ó Súilleabháin, Mícheál (1965). The Mouth of the Glen. pp. 39–45. {{cite book}}: |work= ignored (help); "Taoiseach Jack Lynch meets Old IRA War of Independence veterans at the unveiling of a memorial plaque at Beal na Ghleanna, Co. Cork". Pictures from the Examiner Archive. Irish Examiner. Archived from the original on 24 August 2011. Retrieved 20 June 2011.
^ Yeates, Padraig; Wren, Jimmy (1989). Michael Collins, an Illustrated Life. Tomar. p. 27. ISBN 1-871793-05-X. OCLC 26658954.
^ Ireland, 1798–1998: Politics and War (A History of the Modern British Isles) by Alvin Jackson (ISBN 978-0631195429), p. 244.; The Irish War by Tony Geraghty (ISBN 978-0-00-638674-2), p. 330.
^ Breen, Dan (1981), My fight for Irish freedom, Anvil, p. 50, ISBN 978-0-900068-58-4, archived from the original on 23 September 2021, retrieved 26 October 2020
^ History Ireland, May 2007, p. 56.
^ Irish Freedom by Richard English (ISBN 978-0-330-42759-3), p. 287.; The Irish War of Independence by Michael Hopkinson (ISBN 978-0773528406), p. 115.; A Military History of Ireland by Thomas Bartlett and Keith Jeffery (ISBN 978-0521629898), p. 407.; Michael Collins: A Life by James Mackay (ISBN 1-85158-857-4), p. 106.
^ Sean Treacy and the 3rd. Tipperary Brigade by Desmond Ryan (1945), p. 74.; Police Casualties in Ireland, 1919–1922 by Richard Abbott (ISBN 978-1856353144), p. 49.
^ Dáil Éireann – Volume 1 – 10 April 1919 Archived 7 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Dáil Éireann – Volume 1 – 25 January 1921 Archived 7 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Dáil Éireann – Volume 1 – 11 March 1921 Archived 7 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine.; The IRA by Tim Pat Coogan (ISBN 0-00-653155-5), p. 25.
^ a b Hopkinson 2002, p. 26.
^ M.E. Collins, Ireland 1868–1966, p. 254.
^ a b Hopkinson 2002, p. 42.
^ Hopkinson 2002, p.49: The RIC's strength in late 1919 was down to 9,300 but extensive recruitment saw it reach a height of over 14,000 by June 1921.
^ Cottrell 2006, p. 46.
^ a b Hopkinson 2002, pp. 201–202.
^ "The Limerick soviet of 1919". blackened.net. Archived from the original on 6 February 1998.
^ Charles Townshend, 'The Irish Railway Strike of 1920: Industrial Action and Civil Resistance in the Struggle for Independence,' Irish Historical Studies 21, no. 83 (May 1979): 265–282.
^ a b Hopkinson 2002, p. 43.
^ M.E. Collins, Ireland 1868–1966, p. 258.
^ Macardle, p. 362.
^ M.E. Collins, Ireland, p. 252.
^ a b Hopkinson 2002, p. 44.
^ "Bonds, ads and even short films: how the people of Ireland were encouraged to fund the First Dáil". RTÉ. 3 April 2020. Archived from the original on 11 January 2021. Retrieved 10 January 2021.
^ September 1919 Archived 5 March 2012 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Bennett, Richard (1959). The Black and Tans. E. Hulton & Co Ltd (London). p. 16.
^ Irish Self-Determination League of Great Britain, 1919–24 Archived 6 October 2008 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Collins, Ireland, p. 262.
^ Michael Collins's Intelligence War by Michael T. Foy (ISBN 0-7509-4267-3), p. 25.
^ T. Ryle Dwyer. The Squad: And the Intelligence Operations of Michael Collins. pp. 137–139.
^ Townshend 1975, p. 17.
^ Bennett, Richard (2001). The Black and Tans. Spellmount. pp. 33–34. ISBN 978-1-86227-098-5.
^ Bennett, Richard (2001). The Black and Tans. Spellmount. p. 82. ISBN 978-1-86227-098-5.
^ Bennett, Richard (2001). The Black and Tans. Spellmount. p. 83. ISBN 978-1-86227-098-5.
^ Bennett, Richard (2001). The Black and Tans. Spellmount. p. 87. ISBN 978-1-86227-098-5.
^ Macardle, p. 378
^ Richard Bennett, The Black and Tans, E Hulton and Co Ltd, London, 1959, p. 107, ISBN 1-56619-820-8.
^ Ainsworth, John S. (2000). British Security Policy in Ireland, 1920–1921: A Desperate Attempt by the Crown to Maintain Anglo-Irish Unity by Force (PDF). Proceedings of the 11th Irish-Australian Conference. Perth, Western Australia: Murdoch University. p. 5. Archived (PDF) from the original on 10 February 2012. Retrieved 6 July 2012.
^ a b Ainsworth 2000, p. 7.
^ Ainsworth 2000, p. 5.
^ Hopkinson 2002, p. 65: Hopkinson characterises the Act as a "halfway house to martial law"..
^ Silvestri, Michael (July–August 2010). "Commemoration: Nationalism, empire and memory: the Connaught Rangers mutiny, June 1920". History Ireland. 18 (4). Archived from the original on 13 February 2019. Retrieved 22 November 2018.
^ "Britain's terrible history in Ireland highlighted in new radio documentary". IrishCentral.com. 6 September 2019. Retrieved 29 March 2025.
^ Bennett, Richard (2001). The Black and Tans. Spellmount. pp. 104–107. ISBN 978-1-86227-098-5.
^ Michael Collins by Tim Pat Coogan (ISBN 0-09-968580-9), p. 144.
^ The Secret Army: The IRA by J. Bowyer Bell (ISBN 1560009012), p. 23.; Michael Collins's Intelligence War by Michael T. Foy (ISBN 0-7509-4267-3), p. 167.
^ Hamilton Cuffe, Lord (21 June 1921). "Hamilton Cuffe, 21 June 1921". Parliamentary Debates (Hansard). United Kingdom: House of Lords.
^ Townshend 1975, p. 149.
^ Tom Barry: IRA Freedom Fighter by Meda Ryan (ISBN 1-85635-480-6), p. 98.
^ a b Donnelly, James S. Jr. (2012). "Big House Burnings in County Cork during the Irish Revolution, 1920–21". Éire-Ireland. 47 (3): 141–197. doi:10.1353/eir.2012.0021. ISSN 1550-5162. S2CID 161570386.
^ "The Irish War of Independence – A Brief Overview". Theirhistory.com. 18 September 2012. Archived from the original on 3 January 2018. Retrieved 15 January 2018.
^ Ryan (above) quotes Lionel Curtis, political advisor to Lloyd George, writing in early 1921 "Protestants in the south do not complain of persecution on sectarian grounds. If Protestant farmers are murdered, it is not by reason of their religion, but rather because they are under suspicion as Loyalist. The distinction is fine, but a real one." Nevertheless, between 1911 and 1926, the territory of the Free State lost 34 percent of its (small) Protestant population to migration.
^ (M.E. Collins, Ireland p. 265).
^ "Today in Irish History – The First Dáil meets and the Soloheadbeg Ambush – 21 January 1919". theirishstory.com. The Irish Story. 21 January 2016. Archived from the original on 26 April 2019. Retrieved 17 April 2019. In fact the Dail did not formally take responsibility for the IRA campaign until March 1921 with a statement from Eamon de Valera to this effect
^ Irish Political Prisoners 1848– 1922 by Seán McConville (ISBN 978-0415219914), p. 697.
^ Irish Rebury 10 Republicans Hanged by British in 1920s
Archived 23 September 2021 at the Wayback Machine 15 October 2001 New York Times : Accessed 1 November 2008.
^ Eunan O'Halpin & Daithí Ó Corráin. p. 301
^ Foy, Michael T. (2013). Michael Collins's Intelligence War. The History Press. pp. 214–218. ISBN 978-0-7509-4267-6.
^ Foy (2013), p. 198
^ Dorothy McArdle, The Irish Republic, p. 568.
^ According to historian Michael Hopkinson, the guerrilla warfare, "was often courageous and effective" (Hopkinson (2002) p.202). Another historian, David Fitzpatrick notes that, "The guerrilla fighters... were vastly outnumbered by the forces of the Crown... the success of the Irish Volunteers in surviving so long is therefore noteworthy" (Bartlett, Military History of Ireland, p. 406).
^ "Battle Of Rottenrow". dailyrecord.co.uk. 19 October 2007. Archived from the original on 7 November 2020. Retrieved 3 October 2020.
^ Britain Between the Wars, 1918–40 by Charles Loch Mowat (ISBN 978-0416295108), pp. 84–85.
^ The Austen Chamberlain Diary Letters by Austen Chamberlain (ISBN 978-0521551571), p. 161.
^ Negotiations June–September 1921. UCC online – accessed Dec 2009 Archived 23 June 2011 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Niall C. Harrington Kerry Landing, p. 8.
^ Harrington p. 10.
^ Meda Ryan, Tom Barry, IRA Freedom Fighter, p. 157.
^ "Dáil Éireann – Volume 3 – 7 January, 1922 – Debate on Treaty". historical-debates.oireachtas.ie. Oireachtas Parliamentary Debates Record. 7 January 1922. Archived from the original on 7 June 2011.; Nicholas Mansergh (2007). The Irish Free State – Its Government and Politics. Read. pp. 39–40. ISBN 978-1-4067-2035-8.
^ a b c Turtle Bunbury (2005). "The Irish Civil War (1922–1923)". turtlebunbury.com. Archived from the original on 24 November 2018. Retrieved 24 November 2018.
^ Michael Laffan (2004). "The Emergence of the 'Two Irelands', 1912–25". historyireland.com. Vol. 12, no. 4. History Ireland. Archived from the original on 25 November 2018. Retrieved 24 November 2018.
^ Bromage, Mary (1964), Churchill and Ireland, University of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, IL, p. 106. LCCN 64--20844
^ Darrell Figgis (2002). The Irish Constitution Explained. Creative Media Partners, LLC. ISBN 9781376884531. Archived from the original on 13 March 2018. Retrieved 24 November 2018. Section III – The Executive – (A) Executive Council/Aireacht
^ "Dáil Éireann – Volume 1 – 20 August, 1919 – Oath of Allegiance". historical-debates.oireachtas.ie. Oireachtas Parliamentary Debates Record. 20 August 1919. Archived from the original on 11 February 2012. Retrieved 2 September 2012.
^ J. Anthony Gaughan (2011). "Stack, Austin (1879–1929)" (PDF). treaty.nationalarchives.ie. National Archives. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 April 2018. Retrieved 24 November 2018.
^ Michael Laffan (2011). "Griffith, Arthur Joseph (1871–1922)" (PDF). treaty.nationalarchives.ie. National Archives. Archived from the original (PDF) on 24 April 2018. Retrieved 24 November 2018.
^ Diarmaid Ferriter (2015). "Hearts of stone in Ireland's civil war". irishtimes.com. Irish Times. Archived from the original on 12 February 2019. Retrieved 24 November 2018.
^ Lynch, Robert. The Partition of Ireland: 1918–1925. Cambridge University Press, 2019. pp. 11, 100–101
^ Wilson, Tim. Frontiers of Violence: Conflict and Identity in Ulster and Upper Silesia 1918–1922. Oxford University Press, 2010. pp. 128–129
^ a b Lynch (2019), The Partition of Ireland, pp. 99–100
^ Lynch (2019), pp. 171–176
^ Farrell, Michael (1983), Arming the Protestants: The Formation of the Ulster Special Constabulary and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, Pluto Press, p. 166
^ Lawlor, Pearse. The Outrages: The IRA and the Ulster Special Constabulary in the Border Campaign. Mercier Press, 2011. pp. 265–266
^ 'despite disproportionate loss of life and serious injury among the Catholic community, there were also hundreds of Protestant dead and injured'. Also he argues that 'co-ordination of the murder campaign was not executed by the official administration for the area and many killings appeared to have been done in a random and reactive fashion'. Parkinson, Unholy War, p. 314.
^ Parkinson, p. 132
^ Lynch, Robert. Revolutionary Ireland: 1912–25. Bloomsbury Publishing, 2015. pp. 97–98; "1920 local government elections recalled in new publication" Archived 31 January 2021 at the Wayback Machine. Irish News, 19 October 2020.
^ Eunan O'Halpin & Daithí Ó Corráin. The Dead of the Irish Revolution. Yale University Press, 2020. pp. 141–145
^ Lawlor, Pearse. The Outrages, pp. 16–18
^ Michael Collins's Intelligence War by Michael T. Foy (ISBN 0-7509-4267-3), p. 91.; Constable Jeremiah Mee, leader of the mutiny among the police officers, suggested in a publication of the Sinn Féin newspaper Irish Bulletin, that Smyth had said that the officers should shoot IRA suspects on sight. In reality, Order No. 5, which Smyth had already said to colleagues that he was going to read out to the officers, said that IRA suspects should be shot as a last resort if the IRA men didn't surrender when challenged. This episode, along with the mutiny, has come down to be known as the Listowel mutiny.
^ Lawlor, Pearse. The Burnings, 1920. Mercier Press, 2009. pp. 67–77
^ Lawlor, The Burnings, 1920, pp. 82–83
^ a b Lynch (2019), pp. 92–93
^ Lawlor, The Burnings, 1920, pp. 90–92
^ Lawlor, The Burnings, 1920, p. 184
^ Lawlor, The Burnings, 1920, pp. 171–176
^ a b Hopkinson 2002, p. 158.
^ Lawlor, Pearse. The Outrages, pp. 115–116
^ Lawlor, Pearse. The Outrages, pp. 117–119
^ a b O'Day, Alan. Irish Home Rule, 1867–1921. Manchester University Press, 1998. p. 299
^ Hopkinson 2002, p. 162.
^ Lawlor, Pearse. The Outrages, pp. 180–183
^ Bell, J Bowyer. The Secret Army: The IRA. Transaction Publishers, 1997. pp. 29–30; ISBN 978-1560009016
^ Parkinson, Alan F. Belfast's Unholy War. Four Courts Press, 2004. pp. 151–155
^ Eunan O'Halpin & Daithí Ó Corráin. The Dead of the Irish Revolution. Yale University Press, 2020. pp. 518–520, 522
^ Moore, Cormac, (2019),Birth of the Border, Merrion Press, Newbridge, p. 84, ISBN 9781785372933
^ Alan F Parkinson, Belfast's Unholy War, ISBN 1-85182-792-7 hbk p. 316.
^ "Chronology of Irish History 1919 - 1923: February 1922". Dublin City University. Archived from the original on 19 March 2012.
^ Lawlor, The Outrages, pp. 204–209
^ "Chronology of Irish History 1919–1923: February 1922". Dublin City University. Archived from the original on 19 March 2012.
^ Lawlor, The Outrages, p. 211
^ Glennon, Kieran (2013), From Pogrom to Civil War, Mercier Press, p. 103, ISBN 9781781171462
^ Lawlor, The Outrages, pp. 212–246
^ a b "The Clones affray, 1922 – massacre or invasion?". History Ireland, Volume 12, Issue 3 (Autumn 2004).
^ a b McKenna, Guerrilla Warfare in the Irish War of Independence, pp. 266–267
^ "Chronology of Irish History 1919–1923: February 1922". Dublin City University. Archived from the original on 19 March 2012.
^ Parkinson, Unholy War, p. 237.
^ Parkinson, Unholy War, p. 316.
^ Hopkinson 2004, pp. 79–83.
^ Hopkinson 2004, pp. 83–86.
^ Hopkinson 2004, p. 86.
^ Farrell 1983, p. 128.
^ Hopkinson 2004, p. 85.
^ Hopkinson 2004, pp. 83–87.
^ for death toll and Catholic refugees; Parkinson, Unholy War, p. 316.
^ Lynch, Northern IRA pp. 147–148.
^ Hopkinson 2004, pp. 112–113.
^ Hopkinson 2004, pp. 115–116.
^ Parkinson, Unholy War, p. 316.
^ Liam O'Duibhir, Prisoners of War – Ballykinlar Internment Camp 1920–1921, (2013), Mercier Press. ISBN 9781781170410
^ "Ballykinlar Internment Camp Tokens (1920–21)". oldcurrencyexchange.com. 13 November 2015. Retrieved 10 March 2022.
^ Thorne, Kathleen, (2016), Echoes of Their Footsteps, The Quest for Irish Freedom 1913–1922, Vol. I, Generation Organization, Newberg, OR, pp. 136–137, ISBN 978-0-963-35658-1
^ Kleinrichert, Denise, Republican Internment and the Prison Ship "Argenta", 1922 (2000), Irish Academic Press Ltd. ISBN 978-0-7165-2683-4
^ Hart, IRA and its Enemies, p. 314.
^ a b c Eichenberg, Julia (2010). "The Dark Side of Independence: Paramilitary Violence in Ireland and Poland after the First World War". Contemporary European History. 19 (3): 231–248. doi:10.1017/S0960777310000147. hdl:2262/60765. ISSN 0960-7773. JSTOR 20749811. S2CID 10191537.
^ Kenneally, Ian (2008). The Paper Wall: Newspapers and Propaganda in Ireland 1919–1921. Collins. ISBN 978-1905172580.
^ "Intercourse between Bolshevism and Sinn Féin", Cmd. 1326 (HMSO, London, 1921).
^ Raids and Rallies by Ernie O'Malley (ISBN 978-0900068638), p. 96.
^ Raids and Rallies by Ernie O'Malley (ISBN 978-0900068638), p. 97.
^ a b Michael Collins by Tim Pat Coogan (ISBN 0-09-968580-9), p. 204.
^ W. Churchill, The Aftermath (Thornton 1929) p. 297.
^ a b O'Halpin & Ó Corráin, The Dead of the Irish Revolution, pp. 11–12
^ Richard English, Armed Struggle, a History of the IRA, pp. 39–40. Robert Lynch, The Northern IRA and the Early Years of Partition, pp. 67,
227.
^ Dublin Historical Record 1998, vol. 51, pp. 4–24.
^ Cmd. 1654: Compensation (Ireland) Commission : warrant of appointment. Parliamentary Papers. Vol. XVII. HMSO. 8 May 1922. p. 523.
^ "Damage To Property (Compensation) Act, 1923, Section 1". Irish Statute Book. Archived from the original on 22 September 2017. Retrieved 22 September 2017.
^ a b Clark, Gemma (2014). Everyday Violence in the Irish Civil War. Cambridge University Press. p. 23. ISBN 9781107036895. Archived from the original on 25 January 2021. Retrieved 22 September 2017.
^ "Treaty (Confirmation of Amending Agreement) Act, 1925, Schedule". Irish Statute Book. Archived from the original on 22 September 2017. Retrieved 22 September 2017.; "Damage To Property (Compensation) (Amendment) Act, 1926". Irish Statute Book. Archived from the original on 22 September 2017. Retrieved 22 September 2017.
^ "Women and History 1912–1922" (PDF). www.ul.ie. Archived (PDF) from the original on 11 November 2019. Retrieved 6 December 2018.
^ McKenna, Joseph (2011). Guerrilla Warfare in the Irish War of Independence, 1919–1921. McFarland. p. 110. ISBN 978-0-7864-8519-2.
^ McKenna 2011, p. 112.
^ a b McKenna 2011, pp. 262–263.
^ a b Ryan, Louise (July 1999). "'Furies' and 'Die-hards': Women and Irish Republicanism in the Early Twentieth Century". Gender and History. 11 (2): 264. doi:10.1111/1468-0424.00142. S2CID 143724513.
^ Hughes, Brian (2016). Defying the IRA? Intimidation, Coercion, and Communities During the Irish Revolution. Reappraisals in Irish history. Liverpool: Liverpool University Press. p. 141. ISBN 978-1-78138-297-4. OCLC 946007260.
^ "Irish Civil War veteran dies at 105". BBC News. 3 October 2007. Archived from the original on 26 March 2008. Retrieved 1 August 2010.
Bibliography[edit]
Bartlett, Robert (1997). A Military History of Ireland. Penguin. ISBN 0140154094.
Collins, M. E. (1993), Ireland 1868–1966, Dublin: Educational Company, ISBN 0-86167-305-0
Comerford, Richard (2003), Ireland: Inventing the Nation, Hodder
Connolly, Colm (1996), The Illustrated Life of Michael Collins, Boulder, Co.: Roberts Rinehart, ISBN 978-1-57098-112-8
Connolly, Colm (1996), Michael Collins, London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson, ISBN 978-0-297-83608-7
Coogan, Tim Pat (1990), Michael Collins, London: Hutchinson, ISBN 978-0-091-74106-8
Coogan, Tim Pat (2016), 1916: One Hundred Years of Irish Independence: From the Easter Rising to the Present, New York: Thomas Dunne Books, ISBN 978-1-250-11059-6
Cottrell, Peter (2006), The Anglo-Irish War, The Troubles, 1913–23, Oxford: Osprey Publishing, ISBN 978-1-84603-023-9
English, Richard (2003), Armed Struggle, a History of the IRA, Macmillan, ISBN 0-19-516605-1
Hart, Peter (2003), The IRA at War 1916–1923, Oxford: Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-925258-0
Hart, Peter (1998), The IRA and Its Enemies: Violence and Community in Cork, 1916–1923, Oxford: Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-820806-5
Hopkinson, Michael (2002), The Irish War of Independence, Gill & Macmillan, ISBN 9780773528406
Hopkinson, Michael (2004), Green against Green, the Irish Civil War, Gill & Macmillan
Kleinrichert, Denise (2000), Republican Internment and the Prison Ship 'Argenta', 1922, Kildare: Irish Academic Press Ltd, ISBN 978-0-7165-2683-4
Lowe, W.J. (2002), 'The War against the RIC, 1919–21', Eire-Ireland, vol. 37
Lyons, F. S. L. (1971), Ireland Since the Famine, London{{citation}}:
CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
MacCardle, Dorothy (1937), The Irish Republic, London{{citation}}:
CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Murphy, Gerard (2010), The Year of Disappearances: Political Killings in Cork 1920–1921, Cork: Gill & Macmillan Ltd, ISBN 978-0-7171-4748-9
Pakenham, Frank (Earl of Longford) (1935), Peace By Ordeal: An Account from First-Hand Sources of the Negotiation and Signature of the Anglo-Irish Treaty of 1921, London, ISBN 978-0-283-97908-8 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
O'Donoghue, Florrie (May 1963), 'Guerilla Warfare in Ireland 1919–1921', An Cosantóir, vol. XXII
O'Duibhir, Liam (2013), Prisoners of war : Ballykinlar internment camp 1920–1921, Cork: Mercier, ISBN 978-1-781-17041-0
Ryan, Meda (2003), Tom Barry: IRA Freedom Fighter, Cork: Mercier Press, ISBN 1-85635-425-3
Sheehan, William (2011), A Hard Local War: The British Army and the Guerrilla War in Cork, 1919–1921, The History Press, ISBN 978-0752458823
Thorne, Kathleen (2016), Echoes of Their Footsteps, The Quest for Irish Freedom 1913–1922, Volume I, Newberg: Generation Organization
Townshend, Charles (1975), The British Campaign in Ireland 1919–1921: The Development of Political and Military Policies, Oxford{{citation}}:
CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Townshend, Charles (2014), The Republic: The Fight For Irish Independence, London{{citation}}:
CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Irish War of Independence.
The Irish Independence Film Collection Irish Film Institute collection of contemporary newsreels with background information
War Of Independence website for Clare and Galway[usurped]
Cork's War of Independence
The Irish Story archive on the war
The Irish War website
War memorials related to the Irish War of Independence
Irish History Links for the War of Independence
vteIrish Republican Army (1919–1922)General
Genealogy
Irish Volunteers
Irish Citizen Army
Easter Rising
Sinn Féin
Declaration of Independence
Irish Republic
Dáil Éireann (First Dáil & Second Dáil)
Irish Bulletin
Irish War of Independence
Flying column
Government of Ireland Act 1920
Partition of Ireland (Northern Ireland & Southern Ireland)
Anglo-Irish Treaty
Irish Civil War
Irish Free State
Organisation
Brigades of the Irish Republican Army
Irish Republican Police
The Squad
Actions
Soloheadbeg ambush
Rescue at Knocklong
Listowel mutiny
Rineen ambush
Tooreen ambush
Battle of Ballinalee
Dublin Bloody Sunday
Kilmichael ambush
Clonfin ambush
Dromkeen ambush
Upton train ambush
Clonmult ambush
Coolavokig ambush
Sheemore ambush
Clonbanin ambush
Selton Hill ambush
Burgery ambush
Crossbarry ambush
Headford ambush
Scramoge ambush
Kilmeena ambush
Custom House burning
Carrowkennedy ambush
Rathcoole ambush
Coolacrease killings
Belfast Bloody Sunday
Chiefs of Staff
Cathal Brugha (1917–1918)
Richard Mulcahy (1918–1922)
Eoin O'Duffy (1922)
Personalities
Michael Collins
J. J. "Ginger" O'Connell
Terence MacSwiney
Emmet Dalton
Dick McKee
Paddy Daly
Piaras Béaslaí
Erskine Childers
Liam Mellows
Joe McKelvey
Michael Brennan
Frank Aiken
Gearóid O'Sullivan
Tom Maguire
Seán Lemass
Seán Mac Mahon
Stephen Behan
Andrew Cooney
Seán Treacy
Dan Breen
Seán Hogan
Séumas Robinson
Tom Barry
Seán Mac Eoin
Charlie Hurley
Seán O'Hegarty
Seán Moylan
Tom McEllistrim
George Oliver Plunkett
George Lennon
Michael Kilroy
Ernie O'Malley
Frank Aiken
Moss Twomey
Tom Hales
Seán Hales
Peadar O'Donnell
Liam Deasy
Liam Tobin
Joseph McGrath
Richard Barrett
Louis Darcy
W.J. Brennan-Whitmore
Associates
Irish Republican Brotherhood
Cumann na mBan
Fianna Éireann
Clan na Gael
Irish Self-Determination League
National Association of Old IRA
1916–1921 Club
Derivatives
National Army
Anti-Treaty Irish Republican Army
vteIrish Republican BrotherhoodGeneral
Young Ireland
Fenianism
Irish republicanism
Physical force Irish republicanism
Irish in the American Civil War
Manchester Martyrs
Cuba Five
New Departure
Irish Race Conventions
Obstructionism
Fenian Ram
Hindu–German Conspiracy
Declaration of Independence
Irish Republic
Sinn Féin
Anglo-Irish Treaty
Irish Civil War
Irish Free State
Actions
Fenian Rising (Clerkenwell explosion and Fenian raids)
Catalpa rescue
Land War
Fenian dynamite campaign
Easter Rising
Irish War of Independence
Army Mutiny
Presidents
James Stephens
Thomas J. Kelly
J. F. X. O'Brien
Charles Kickham
John O'Connor Power
John O'Leary
Neal O'Boyle
John Mulholland
Seamus Deakin
Denis McCullough
Thomas Ashe
Seán McGarry
Harry Boland
Patrick Moylett
Michael Collins
Richard Mulcahy
Prominent members19th century
Thomas Francis Bourke
Ricard O'Sullivan Burke
Edward O'Meagher Condon
John Daly
Michael Davitt
Timothy Deasy
John Devoy
Michael Doheny
Thomas Clarke Luby
John O'Mahony
Jeremiah O'Donovan Rossa
Pat Nally
William R. Roberts
20th century
Éamonn Ceannt
Tom Clarke
Bulmer Hobson
Seán Mac Diarmada
Diarmuid Lynch
Patrick Pearse
Joseph Plunkett
Informants
Thomas Miller Beach
Francis Frederick Millen
Associates
Clan na Gael
Cumann na mBan
Emmet Monument Association
Fenian Brotherhood
Fianna Éireann
Friends of Irish Freedom
Irish Republican Army
Irish Freedom (newspaper)
The Irish People (newspaper)
United Irishmen of America
Derivatives
Irish National Invincibles (Phoenix Park killings)
vteIreland topics
Republic of Ireland topics
Northern Ireland topics
HistoryTimeline
Prehistory
Protohistory
Early history
Gaelic Ireland / Lordship of Ireland
800–1169
1169–1536
Kingdom of Ireland
1536–1691
1691–1800
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
1801–1923
Irish Republic
Southern Ireland (1921–1922)
Northern Ireland (1921–present)
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
since 1922
Irish Free State (1922–1937)
Ireland (since 1922)
Events
Battles of Tara / Glenmama / Clontarf
Norman invasion
Bruce campaign
Black Death
Tudor conquest
Desmond Rebellions
Spanish Armada
Tyrone's Rebellion
Flight of the Earls
Plantation of Ulster
1641 Rebellion / Confederate War
Cromwellian conquest / Settlement of 1652
Williamite War
Penal Laws
First Great Famine
1798 Rebellion
Act of Union (1800)
1803 Rebellion
Tithe War
Second Great Famine
Land War
Fenian Rising
Dublin lock-out
Home Rule crisis
Easter Rising
War of Independence
Anglo-Irish Treaty
Civil War
The Emergency
IRA Northern Campaign
IRA Border Campaign
The Troubles
Peace process
Economy of the Republic of Ireland
Celtic Tiger
Post-2008 Irish economic downturn
Post-2008 Irish banking crisis
Other topics
List of conflicts in Ireland
List of Irish tribes
List of Irish kingdoms
List of High Kings
Gaelic clothing and fashion
List of World Heritage Sites in the Republic of Ireland
GeographyNatural
Climate
Climate change
Coastline
Extreme points
Fauna
Islands
Loughs
Mountains
Rivers
list
List of national parks of the Republic of Ireland / in Northern Ireland
Human
Architecture
Notable buildings
Tallest buildings and structures
Cities
Counties
Demographics of the Republic of Ireland / of Northern Ireland
Ports
Provinces
ROI–UK border
Towns
Tourism in the Republic of Ireland
Tourist attractions
Transport
PoliticsIdeologies
Nationalism
Republicanism
Ulster loyalism
Unionism
Republic of Ireland
Constitution
Economy
Education
Foreign relations
Government
local
Law
LGBT rights
Oireachtas parliament
Dáil Éireann (lower house)
Seanad Éireann (upper house)
President
Taxation
Northern Ireland
Assembly
D'Hondt method
Economy
Education
Government
local
LGBT rights
Peace process
CultureCuisineFood
List of dishes
Barmbrack
Bacon and cabbage
Boxty
Champ
Coddle
Colcannon
Drisheen
Irish fry
Skirts and kidneys
Soda bread
Spice Bag
Stew
Three-in-One
Drinks
Coffee
Cream
Guinness
Mist
Poitín
Tea
Whiskey
Dance
Jig
Sean-nós
Set dancing
Stepdance
Festivals
Imbolc
Saint Patrick's Day
Bealtaine
The Twelfth
Lúnasa
Rose of Tralee
Samhain / Halloween
Wren Day
Languages
Hiberno-English
Irish
Shelta
Ulster Scots
Literature
Annals
Fiction
Gaeilge
Poetry
Theatre
Triads
Music
Ballads
Céilí
Folk music
session
Instruments
Rock music
Traditional singing
Mythology
Cycles
Mythological
Fenian
Ulster
Kings
Aos Sí
Echtrai
Immrama
Tuatha Dé Danann
Firbolg
Fomorians
Legendary creatures
People
Irish people
List of Irish people
Irish diaspora
Anglo-Irish
Gaels
Gaelic Ireland
Hiberno-Normans
Travellers
Ulster Scots
vteImmigration to the Republic of IrelandGroups
Americans
Brazilians
Chinese
Filipinos
Lithuanians
Nigerians
South Asians
Poles
Romani
Turks
Related topics
Demographics of the Republic of Ireland
Department of Justice, Home Affairs and Migration
Stamp 4
Sport
Association football in the Republic of Ireland
Association football in Northern Ireland
Camogie
Gaelic football
Gaelic handball
Hurling
Martial arts
Road bowling
Rounders
Rugby union
Symbols
Brighid's Cross
Cláirseach
County coats of arms
Flags
Northern Ireland flags issue
Irish Wolfhound
National coat of arms
Red Hand
Shamrock
Other
Calendar
Castles
Cinema
Heritage Sites
Historic houses
Homelessness
Mass media (Republic)
Monastic
Names
Place names / outside Ireland
Prostitution (Republic) / in Northern Ireland
Public holidays in the Republic of Ireland / in Northern Ireland
Public houses
Squatting
Ireland portal
Portals: Ireland Modern history United Kingdom
Authority control databases InternationalFASTNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Irish_War_of_Independence&oldid=1312427669"
Categories: Irish War of IndependenceGuerrilla warsIreland–United Kingdom relationsRebellions in IrelandRebellions against the British EmpireWars involving IrelandWars involving the United KingdomConflicts in 1919Conflicts in 1920Conflicts in 192120th-century rebellionsHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksCS1 maint: numeric names: authors listCS1 errors: periodical ignoredArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse Hiberno-English from March 2014All Wikipedia articles written in Hiberno-EnglishUse dmy dates from March 2014Articles containing Irish-language textAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2023Articles needing additional references from July 2020All articles needing additional referencesArticles with unsourced statements from April 2021Articles with unsourced statements from May 2022Articles with unsourced statements from February 2020Articles with unsourced statements from November 2018CS1 maint: location missing publisherCS1 errors: ISBN dateCommons category link is on Wikidata
This page was last edited on 20 September 2025, at 15:50 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Irish War of Independence
54 languages
Add topic