Intel taps Apple for potential investment, says report — companies said to be discussing ways to work together more closely | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US Edition
UK
US
Australia
Canada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Tech Industry
SoftBank considered buying Intel's foundry division outright before investing $2 billion into the company as equity
CPUs
Trump administration reportedly mulls investing in Intel to bolster national security — direct cash assistance would speed Ohio fab build out
CPUs
Qualcomm CEO says Intel ‘not an option’ for chip production — yet
CPUs
Nvidia and Intel announce jointly developed 'Intel x86 RTX SOCs' for PCs with Nvidia graphics, also custom Nvidia data center x86 processors
Semiconductors
SoftBank to buy $2 billion in Intel shares at $23 each — firm still owns majority share of Arm
Tech Industry
White House confirms talks to acquire 10% stake in Intel
Tech Industry
Trump administration reportedly mulling a 10% stake in Intel
Semiconductors
Intel might axe the 18A process node for foundry customers, essentially leaving TSMC with no rival
CPUs
Teams at Nvidia and Intel have been working in secret on jointly developed processors for a year
CPUs
Intel's rumored 'Nova Lake-AX' allegedly packs insane specs but might never launch
Tech Industry
Intel is not a top 10 chipmaker anymore, according to new CEO Lip-Bu Tan
Tech Industry
Former Intel CEO calls for $40B to revive US chipmaking, urges Lip-Bu Tan’s removal to save Intel
Macbooks
Rumored $599-$699 MacBook could be in the works
Tech Industry
CHIPS Act funding could herald an era where the U.S. is not offering grants, but buying equity
Semiconductors
Intel confirms it has already received $5.7 billion from US government
PC Components
CPUs
Intel taps Apple for potential investment, says report — companies said to be discussing ways to work together more closely
News
By
Anton Shilov
published
25 September 2025
Half a decade after the end of the Intel Mac...
Comments (4)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Apple)
Intel is in preliminary discussions with Apple regarding a potential investment, according to Bloomberg, which cites sources familiar with the matter. The two companies are also reportedly exploring ways to work more closely together, although it remains to be seen whether any potential deals can be reached, as negotiations are in the early stages and may not come to fruition.The reported talks with Apple follow a string of recent deals, including major funding from Nvidia and SoftBank, and conversion of CHIPS Act funding from the U.S. government to equity. These moves are believed to be a part of the company's revival strategy that not only includes securing money, but also securing commitments to use the company's products and services going forward to justify developing Intel's next-generation 14A process technology and building production capacities that will support the node.Apple used Intel's CPUs inside its PCs from 2005 to 2020, but it never used the company's low-power processors for its iPhones or iPads. Instead, it switched its Macs to Arm-based SoCs in 2020. Apple's current computers do not use any hardware from Intel, even though these systems use technologies originally developed by Intel or co-developed with Intel, including DisplayPort, NVMe, PCIe, Thunderbolt, and USB. Even Thunderbolt 5 controllers/retimers found in the latest MacBook Pro come from Apple, yet are certified by Intel. It is unknown how Apple and Intel could collaborate going forward, though the high-tech world is very convoluted.
You may like
SoftBank considered buying Intel's foundry division outright before investing $2 billion into the company as equity
Trump administration reportedly mulls investing in Intel to bolster national security — direct cash assistance would speed Ohio fab build out
Qualcomm CEO says Intel ‘not an option’ for chip production — yet
Intel's timing to enter negotiations with Apple seems favourable as the high-tech giant has just received investments from Nvidia, SoftBank, and the U.S. government. Such high-profile backers reflect a growing belief in Intel's comeback, so it should be easier for the company to persuade Apple and other potential investors to buy Intel stock. Also, Apple has prioritized expanding its investments within the U.S., even though much of its supply chain remains abroad. In August, it pledged $600 billion toward domestic initiatives, an increase from a previous $500 billion commitment.Obviously, a deal with Apple would further underscore confidence in Intel's direction, which would carry symbolic weight and bolster Intel's public image. However, if the rumored deal does not yield any agreement, this might harm Intel's position.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
See more CPUs News
TOPICS
Intel
Apple
See all comments (4)
Anton ShilovSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterAnton Shilov is a contributing writer at Tom’s Hardware. Over the past couple of decades, he has covered everything from CPUs and GPUs to supercomputers and from modern process technologies and latest fab tools to high-tech industry trends.
Read more
SoftBank considered buying Intel's foundry division outright before investing $2 billion into the company as equity
Trump administration reportedly mulls investing in Intel to bolster national security — direct cash assistance would speed Ohio fab build out
Qualcomm CEO says Intel ‘not an option’ for chip production — yet
Nvidia and Intel announce jointly developed 'Intel x86 RTX SOCs' for PCs with Nvidia graphics, also custom Nvidia data center x86 processors
SoftBank to buy $2 billion in Intel shares at $23 each — firm still owns majority share of Arm
White House confirms talks to acquire 10% stake in Intel
Latest in CPUs
Intel reportedly raising prices on ever-popular Raptor Lake chips
Qualcomm's new Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme and Elite chips for PCs stretch up to a record 5 GHz
AMD keeps AM4 platform on life support with 2020-era Zen 3 CPU
AMD relaunches $40 Athlon 3000G CPU with new packaging and cooler
Nvidia CEO Huang says upcoming DGX Spark systems are powered by N1 silicon
Teams at Nvidia and Intel have been working in secret on jointly developed processors for a year
Latest in News
HighPoint's adapter enables GPUDirect storage — up to 64 GB/s from drive to GPU, bypassing the CPU
Elon Musk's Grok AI to be used by US government at a price of 42 cents per agency
ROG Xbox Ally X and ROG Xbox Ally were previously listed at $850 and $550 — pricing and preorders expected today
CoreWeave deal with OpenAI now worth $22.4 billion
Qualcomm shows off reference mini PCs almost as thin as a USB port, powered by Snapdragon X2 Elite Extreme
Micron teams up with TSMC to deliver HBM4E, targeted for 2027
4 Comments
Comment from the forums
-Fran-
What is next? Lip-Bu begging outside of Wallstreet for investment?
Regards.
Reply
DS426
Apple's best interests are to let Intel continue to stumble; Intel will get way more out of the two scratching each other's backs. If Intel 14A is feasible for Apple Silicon production, sure, go for it, by why would Apple even risk it when they are one of TSMC's top customers and TSMC has the proven track record to consistently iterate forward? Tan has minimum margins established, so it's not like they can offer Apple a "deal" relative to TSMC (and even with 2 nm pricing going WAY up).
Reply
S58_is_the_goat
-Fran- said:What is next? Lip-Bu begging outside of Wallstreet for investment?
Regards.Intel: hello and thank you for your interest in supporting intel, we also accept donations, the bigger the donation the bigger the tax write off 😉
Reply
TerryLaze
DS426 said: why would Apple even risk it when they are one of TSMC's top customers and TSMC has the proven track record to consistently iterate forward?TSMC also has a track record of increasing prices all the time and being backed up months ahead.
Having intel as a second source will increase apples turn around, and will give TSMC some urgency to compete on prices, which both are always welcome things.
DS426 said:Tan has minimum margins established, so it's not like they can offer Apple a "deal" relative to TSMC (and even with 2 nm pricing going WAY up).Those margins are for intel products not for the FABs, not that the FABs don't have a margin to reach but so do TSMC's .
Reply
View All 4 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.