Press Releases and Statements : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Press Releases and Statements NPR press releases and statements.
Special Series Press Releases and Statements
Contact NPR Media Relations
Subscribe to NPR's Up First Email
Sonali Mehta named Executive Director of NPR Music
September 16, 2025 • NPR announced today that Sonali Mehta has been named Executive Director of NPR Music. She will start September 22, and will be based in New York.
NPR Board Welcomes Newly Elected Directors
September 15, 2025 • The NPR membership elected Brad Dancer, WSHU Public Radio, Fairfield, CT; Paul Hunton, WUNC, Chapel Hill, NC (incumbent); Margaret Low, WBUR, Boston, MA (incumbent); R.C. McBride, WGLT, Normal, IL (incumbent) as Member Directors of the NPR Board.
NPR Kicks Off 5th Annual 'El Tiny': Bridging Generations with Icons and Rising Stars for Latin Music Month
September 15, 2025 • NPR Kicks Off 5th Annual 'El Tiny': Bridging Generations with Icons and Rising Stars for Latin Music Month. Gloria Estefan, Carlos Vives, Fito Páez, Silvana Estrada, and more join El Tiny for its biggest lineup yet.
Sponsor Message
NPR celebra la quinta edición anual de 'El Tiny': Un puente de generaciones entre íconos y nuevas estrellas para el Mes de la Música Latina
September 15, 2025 •
NPR Names Thomas Evans as Editor in Chief and Marta McLellan Ross as Chief of Staff
September 11, 2025 • NPR today announced the appointment of Thomas Evans as Editor in Chief and Marta McLellan Ross as Chief of Staff, further strengthening the organization's leadership team as it builds the future of public media in America.
Ed Sheeran and NPR's Tiny Desk team up in intimate livestream concert on YouTube timed with 'Play' album release
September 9, 2025 • Hours after album release, listeners worldwide will experience Sheeran's newest music from NPR's offices—live on YouTube September 12 at noon ET
J. Tyler Franklin/Louisville Public Media
Ryland Barton Named NPR Newscast Anchor
September 3, 2025 • NPR announced today that Ryland Barton will be joining the Newscast team as a PM anchor.
Scott Detrow has been named a new host of NPR's All Things Considered
Bruce Elliott Photography
hide caption
toggle caption
Bruce Elliott Photography
Scott Detrow Named Host of All Things Considered
August 27, 2025 • NPR announced today that, beginning September 29, Scott Detrow will become a full-time weekday host of All Things Considered.
NPR
NPR's Mary Louise Kelly delivers insider's guide to national security news with 'Sources & Methods' podcast
August 25, 2025 • A new weekly NPR podcast breaks down the biggest stories in national security.
Sources & Methods - Trailer
Listen
·
1:50
1:50
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/g-s1-84995/nx-s1-mx-5686921" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Ye Gods with Scott Carter from WGCU Public Media and Efficiency Studios
WGCU Public Media and Efficiency Studios
hide caption
toggle caption
WGCU Public Media and Efficiency Studios
'Ye Gods with Scott Carter' from WGCU and NPR explores belief, doubt and the rules that shape us
August 20, 2025 • Premiering August 27, Ye Gods with Scott Carter is a weekly podcast that explores the religious, cultural or secular rules that guide the lives of artists, faith leaders and other notable guests.
Sponsor Message
NPR Joins Mountain West News Bureau, Bringing to 7 the Number of Regional Collaborations
August 14, 2025 • Partnership advances goal of expanding access to critical news and information in U.S. news deserts
Gulf States Newsroom Receives Grant from W.K. Kellogg Foundation
August 11, 2025 • Grant supports continued access to critical news and information across regional U.S. news deserts
Statement from Katherine Maher, NPR President & CEO, on Closure of Corporation for Public Broadcasting
August 1, 2025 • Today, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) announced that it will begin a "wind-down of its operations" and ultimate full operational closure following the passage of a federal rescissions package and the release of the Senate Appropriations Committee's FY 2026 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies (Labor-H) appropriations bill.
Edith Chapin to Depart NPR After Distinguished Tenure as Senior Vice President and Editor in Chief
July 22, 2025 • NPR announced that Edith Chapin, who for 13 years has served in pivotal editorial leadership roles at NPR, will be stepping down from her role as Senior Vice President, Editor in Chief and acting Chief Content Officer later this year.
Unprecedented Rescission Bill Defunds Public Media
July 18, 2025 • Today, Congress passed H.R. 4, the Rescissions Act of 2025. This decision "clawed back" $1.1 billion in funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for fiscal years 2026 and 2027.
National poll shows widespread American support for federally funded public radio
July 15, 2025 • In a Harris poll conducted last week on behalf of NPR, two-thirds of Americans (66%) agreed that they support federal funding for public radio, and the same percentage agreed that federal funding for public radio is a good value for taxpayer dollars.
Erica Osher named Vice President, AI Labs
July 14, 2025 • Erica Osher will be joining NPR to serve as its Vice President, AI Labs starting July 28.
Scott Simon
NPR/NPR
hide caption
toggle caption
NPR/NPR
NPR's Scott Simon inducted into the Radio Hall of Fame
July 2, 2025 • The Museum of Broadcast Communications has named Scott Simon a 2025 Radio Hall of Fame Inductee.
NPR and WGCU partner to launch 'Ye Gods with Scott Carter' podcast
June 27, 2025 • Southwest Florida member station WGCU and the NPR Network launch series hosted by former Real Time with Bill Maher writer-producer Scott Carter.
Member stations, states, and organizations file friend-of-the-court briefings in support of public media
June 21, 2025 • On June 20, 2025, a coalition of 29 Member stations from across the country filed an amicus brief in support of NPR, Aspen Public Radio, Colorado Public Radio, and KSUT Public Radio in our challenge to the constitutionality of the President's Executive Order purporting to halt all direct and indirect federal funding of NPR.
Statement from Katherine Maher, NPR President and CEO: The House voted to claw back Federal funding intended for public broadcasters around the country
June 12, 2025 •
NPR
NPR's "Climate Solutions Week: Rethinking Home"
June 9, 2025 • Annual special coverage series looks at climate change, its impact and innovative solutions
More from Press Releases and Statements
Load more stories
Browse archive or
search npr.org
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor