Luiza Brina: Tiny Desk Concert : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Luiza Brina: Tiny Desk Concert At the Tiny Desk, the Brazilian artist presents a searching set of orações that serve as meditations, no matter your spiritual journey.
Tiny Desk
Intimate concerts, recorded live at NPR Music headquarters
Tiny Desk Radio
Tiny Desk Contest
Tiny Desk Home Concerts
Visit the Tiny Desk
Luiza Brina: Tiny Desk Concert
September 17, 20255:00 AM ET
Lars Gotrich
This Sept. 15 to Oct. 15, NPR Music celebrates artists from all corners of Latinidad with an 'El Tiny' takeover. Luiza Brina has emerged as a tender and idiosyncratic voice of Brazil, with transcendental music as quiet as it is cosmic. At the Tiny Desk, she presents a searching set of orações that serve as meditations, no matter your spiritual journey. A little over a decade ago, Brina suffered panic attacks and, as a way to re-center herself, began to write a series of prayers despite not having any religious background. Prayers for comings and goings, hopes and dreams, a world falling apart. This practice formed the basis of Prece, one of NPR Music's best albums of 2024, where psychedelic symphonies commune with the sacred. That she comes from the southeastern state of Minas Gerais — home to Milton Nascimento and Lô Borges — speaks to the lineage of soul seekers that she inherits. Inspired by Música popular brasileira and artists from the late '60s tropicália movement, Brina experiments with folk and pop traditions, layering electronics with orchestral maneuvers.
Sponsor Message
For this performance, Brina is front and center with her seven-string nylon guitar and effects pedals, accompanied by woodwinds, keys, electronics and percussion that honors her Brazilian heritage. The arrangements, scaled down to a chamber ensemble, are still just as complex and whimsical. But it's her voice — bright and curious, steady and pure — that guides these orações, leaving us with this wisdom: "Do not distinguish God from happiness." SET LIST "Oração 18 (pra viver junto)""Oração 2""Oração 17 (risco)""Oração 15 (oração à Cobra Grande)""Oração 16 (dios/adiós)" MUSICIANS Luiza Brina: vocals, guitarLucas Ferrari: keys, electronicsGuilherme Kastrup: drums, percussionPatrícia Garcia: oboeEster Muniz: bassoon TINY DESK TEAM Producer: Lars GotrichDirector/Editor: Maia SternAudio Technical Director: Josephine NyounaiHost/Series Producer: Bobby CarterVideographers: Maia Stern, Kara Frame, Joshua BryantAudio Engineer: Andie HuetherProduction Assistant: Dhanika PinedaPhotographer: Grace RaverTiny Desk Team: Ashley Pointer, Josh NewellCopy Editor: Hazel CillsExecutive Producer: Suraya MohamedSeries Creators: Bob Boilen, Stephen Thompson, Robin Hilton
Luiza Brina
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor