ESR's new MagSafe iPhone 17 accessories are perfect for modern professionals | ZDNET
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Paid Content
: This is ad content, written and produced by ZDNET BrandX in collaboration with the sponsor. If you buy a product featured here, we may earn a commission.
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
ESR's new MagSafe iPhone 17 accessories are perfect for modern professionals
ESR's cases for iPhone 17 and AirPods Pro 3 and high-tech, multi-device Qi2.2 MagSafe charging stations help you protect your Apple devices at the office and on the go.
ESRApple's new product line is here, featuring the iPhone 17 lineup, the AirPods Pro 3, and the long-awaited iPhone Air. With improved power and battery life, the iPhone 17 will be essential for modern professionals, enabling you to watch video through long business flights or—with your new AirPods Pro 3—translate meetings in real-time with foreign colleagues or partners.If you're thinking about pre-ordering a new Apple device for work, you'll also need the best accessories to keep it safe. Thanks to ESR, one of Amazon's top MagSafe sellers, you can safeguard your phone with stylish, powerful cases and high-tech MagSafe charging technology that's premium without the premium price tag. ZDNET editors are big fans of ESR gear, writing that it is "always well-designed and well-built." Here are a few options to consider for your iPhone 17, Apple Watch, AirPods—or all of the above.Stylish all-around protection designed for the modern professional
ESRIf you use your iPhone for work, you want a case strong enough to protect it while commuting or traveling without a bulky, unprofessional design. ESR's flagship Cyber Tough Magnetic Case pairs a reinforced backplate with a wraparound bumper, a raised edge for the screen and camera, and a protective zinc-alloy camera guard. Its Air Guard corners absorb shocks in the event your phone gets knocked off your desk and plummets to the ground.The Cyber Tough Magnetic Case has protection that is certified at seven times military-grade strength, so it can withstand drops of up to 23 feet. (That's military-level protection without looking like it belongs in a Captain America film.) This is made possible by a 3-layer design featuring a robust PC backing, a flexible TPE soft shell and an inner PORON lining. ESR Cyber Tough Magnetic Case for iPhone 17 $41.99 at AmazonIf you're more stationary during office hours and lean a little more toward style than maximum-strength protection, the Classic Hybrid Magnetic Case is made for you. With a super-slim 1.5mm profile, it comes in an original clear design that lets your iPhone 17's beauty show through — like the new lavender color option or the Pro Max's controversial bright orange — while still protecting it from drops of up to 11 feet. If you prefer a silicon case to plastic, the Cloud Soft Magnetic Case offers a smooth grip and that semi-squishy feel some people have come to love. ESR Classic Hybrid Magnetic Case for iPhone 17 $24.99 at Amazon ESR Cloud Soft Magnetic Case for iPhone 17 $29.99 at AmazonAll of ESR's cases feature their unique Stash Stand, an zinc-alloy loop that fits neatly around the camera when folded and pops out, kickstand style, to turn your phone into a hands-free mini-display on your desk or airplane tray table. ZDNET editor Adrian Kingsley-Hughes writes that ESR's Stash Stand products made him a convert to the kickstand accessory with their durability and convenience.You won't have to hide your cracked screen in meetings
ESREven if you spend your days in an office, accidents still happen, and ESR's ultra-strong screen protectors can save your new iPhone 17 from ending up with a scratched or cracked screen. The UltraFit Armorite Pro Screen Protector is made of the same material as the iPhone's screen: Accessory Glass by Corning. The screen protector's drop resistance is also excellent, offering 10 times the impact absorption of generic models; they've even survived drop tests with a 64-gram steel ball. The screen protector also has twice the scratch resistance as the iPhone's screen glass, while reducing the visibility of scratches by 25% and boasting an anti-reflective coating, optimal for seeing your screen even in sun-soaked, open-concept offices. ESR UltraFit Armorite Pro Screen Protector for iPhone 17 $29.99 at ESRESR's UltraFit tray makes the installation process easy, while preventing unsightly bubbles or dust from sneaking in between your screen and protector. The screen protector even comes in two more, lighter-duty options: the UltraFit Armorite (with 7x drop resistance) and the UltraFit Classic (2x drop resistance). ESR UltraFit Armorite Screen Protector for iPhone 17 $19.99 at ESR ESR UltraFit Classic Screen Protector for iPhone 17 $13.99 at ESRHigh-tech cool charging for the minimalist's desk
ESRWe have to charge almost everything nowadays, and one of the biggest annoyances of the modern desk or briefcase is clutter from all those chargers. ESR's CryoBoost 3-in-1 Magnetic Charging Station (Qi2 25W) solves that problem with one device that charges your iPhone, Apple Watch, and AirPods all at the same time. The station supports the Qi2.2 standard with 25W wireless charging, which is essentially equal to the speed of charging with a cord. The efficiency is fueled by ESR's CryoBoost technology, which is a built-in fan that actively cools your phone to avoid overheating – all at whisper-quiet fan volume that you can turn off, like during a conference call.The ESR CryoBoost 3-in-1 Magnetic Charging Station will be available to purchase in September. You can purchase these chargers on ESR's Amazon store or ESR's official website.Translation: Your AirPods are safe with ESR
ESRApple's new AirPods Pro 3 feature live-translation, which means they're certain to become a staple for business travelers. And we all know how easy it is to drop or misplace your AirPods on the best of days, not to mention when you're juggling a busy schedule in an unfamiliar place. ZDNET editors say ESR's AirPod cases "tick all the boxes" to protect your earbuds from coins and keys, especially when you're commuting to work and jamming as much as possible into your pockets. The ESR Cyber FlickLock Magnetic Case beefs up the protection for your AirPods with a magnetic lid and internal latch. The case can still be opened with only one hand using a slide-lock mechanism. It's MagSafe-ready and charging is 136% stronger than the original AirPods case, so you won't run out of power on that crosstown bus ride. The case is tested for four-foot drops, since you're likely to bobble the case while multitasking, like swiping your badge while having a conversation with a coworker.  ESR Cyber FlickLock Magnetic Case for AirPods Pro 3 $22.99 at Amazon Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use