I biked with the Meta Oakley Vanguard, and they're easily the best smart glasses for athletes | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Wearables
Smart Glasses
I biked with the Meta Oakley Vanguard, and they're easily the best smart glasses for athletes
The latest pair of Oakley-branded smart glasses comes in a familiar design with some thoughtful features.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
Sept. 18, 2025 at 3:52 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysThe Meta Oakley Vanguards start at $499 and come in four shades.They're based on the classic Sphaera design.The glasses pair with Garmin for real-time workout info.I'm not a professional snowboarder, nor will I ever bike down a mountain like I have nine lives, but putting on the new Meta Oakley Vanugard glasses this week sure gave me false hope.The Vanguards were introduced at Meta Connect this week alongside two other pairs of Ray-Ban-branded glasses. And while I expected these to interest me the least -- because the extent of my workouts is chasing the subway to the office -- I left my hands-on session with curiosity and exhilaration.Also: Meta Connect 2025 live updates: Ray-Ban Display, Oakley Vanguard glasses, moreThese are only the second pair of smart glasses designed under the Oakley brand, but the polish and finesse are evident, from the improved speakers embedded within the thin yet durable frame to the IP67 rating to the health and fitness ecosystem in which Meta has surrounded the Vanguard with.Here's what's new with the wearable, and why they may be an even bigger hit than expected.
The Oakley Vanguard come in four Prizm-based lenses. Jason Hiner/ZDNETFor starters, the Vanguards are very much inspired by the classic Oakley Sphaera visors, with a design that snowboarders, runners, bikers, and more can vouch for. Besides the camera and various components on the frames, these could pass as just another pair of sportswear.But the technology is impressive. Meta has carried over the best features of the Oakley HSTN model to the Vanguard, including the 12MP camera sensor that can capture at 3K resolution (capped at 30fps) and a six-hour-plus battery life.Also: I tried smart glasses with a built-in display, and they beat my Meta Ray-Bans in key waysOnly this time, the camera is positioned in the middle of the frame, just above the nose pads, for a more optimal recording experience. Meta says the camera positioning, along with the various buttons along the frames, is purposely placed on the bottom side of the glasses so that athletes can wear helmets and other headwear more comfortably.Speaking of which, the Vanguards come with a new action button that users can program to prompt a specific Meta AI query or even start a specific video-recording mode, like slow-motion capture (which is capped at 720p or 1080p). I'm all for remappable buttons, and the tactility of this one makes sense since the target customer is always on the go.
Kerry Wan/ZDNETMeta is particularly proud of the audio system on these smart glasses, as they're not only louder than what's on the Ray-Bans and HSTN but should be audible even when the user is moving at 30 mph. I'll have to test that out myself, so long as my wife is willing to tell me when I'm moving at 30 mph so I can prove a point, but it's a bold claim nonetheless.The Vanguard has one big advantage over competing smart glasses, including Meta's existing lineup: health-tracking integrations. Meta is primarily working with Garmin on this for now, but you can essentially ask Meta AI for your fitness statistics in real time, so long as you're wearing a Garmin smartwatch.Also: Meta Ray-Bans vs. Oakley: I tested both smart glasses, there's a clear winnerI demoed the integration by hopping on a stationary bike. As I pedaled, I asked Meta AI questions like "How fast am I cycling?" and "How far have I biked?" The responses were surprisingly fast and at a volume that felt clear enough to process even as I struggled to go up a virtual hill. This was demonstrated in a controlled environment; you may not have as quick a response when you're pedalling through a forest or mountain range. Meta says users can pair the glasses to platforms like Apple Health and Google Fit, too, but those will only provide fitness information after exercises and not during. Hopefully, that will change in the near future.The Meta Oakley Vanguard smart glasses are available for preorder now and officially go on sale on October 29 at a starting price of $499, $100 more than the HSTN models and $150 more than the new second-generation Ray-Bans. But for serious athletes and folks who just want to look cool, these feel like a worthwhile investment that may only get better with time.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I tried smart glasses with a built-in display, and they beat my Meta Ray-Bans in key ways
2 Meta Ray-Bans leaks that have me truly excited for Connect (including a new Oakley model)
5 Meta Ray-Ban upgrades that have me truly hyped for September 17
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use