c++ - Why doesn't -save-temps work with precompiled header? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Why doesn't -save-temps work with precompiled header?
Ask Question
Asked
yesterday
Modified
yesterday
Viewed
57 times
0
In my project I have done in CMake:
target_precompile_headers(${main_target_name} PRIVATE
std_pch.h
)
target_compile_options(${main_target_name} PRIVATE -save-temps)
Save temps cannot work if I add that precompiled header. I get the error:
fatal error: 'iostream' file not found
4 | #include <iostream>
This is in Clang. In GCC 14 it doesn't seem to work, but it seems for another reason, -save-temps is buggy overall because I get a compiler segmentation fault. Is there something fundamentally incompatible with both precompiled headers and -save-temps? It appears in the Clang case it's an error of include directories, ie.,
cannot be found.
c++gcccmakeclang
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked yesterday
ZebrafishZebrafish
15.8k33 gold badges6666 silver badges163163 bronze badges
Add a comment
|
Related questions
2335
Why can templates only be implemented in the header file?
2325
Why doesn't GCC optimize a*a*a*a*a*a to (a*a*a)*(a*a*a)?
1
How to handle forced inclusion with precompiled header in C++ project with CMake?
Related questions
2335
Why can templates only be implemented in the header file?
2325
Why doesn't GCC optimize a*a*a*a*a*a to (a*a*a)*(a*a*a)?
1
How to handle forced inclusion with precompiled header in C++ project with CMake?
747
Why are #ifndef and #define used in C++ header files?
21
How to integrate clang-tidy to CMake and GCC?
22
Intermittent, random 'file not found' errors under Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
4
Is there any way to use multiple precompiled headers simultaneously with Clang?
Load 4 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
c++gcccmakeclang
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
AI vs Gen Z: How AI has changed the career pathway for junior developers
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Hot Network Questions
How to describe this kind of scene?
Adventure B-movie from the 70s involving three white people in a tribal country and a medallion the tribe uses in rituals
Should the reader be able to deduce the murderer's identity from the interior monologues revealed in And Then There Were None?
Why does a higher concentration gradient lead to faster rates of diffusion?
Beetles on a Chessboard
Why does the do-while loop in C-like languages require the curly brackets `{` and `}`? Wouldn't the grammar be perfectly parsable without them?
"Fine knacks for ladies" by John Dowland
Why, when the thickness-to-chord ratio (t/c) of a 6-series laminar airfoil increases, the laminar bucket extends to higher values of Cl?
Is this efflorescence on my new build tile floor, and how can I clean it off?
What's the difference between a metaphysical object/entity and a physical but non-material object/entity?
Confidence interval for difference of probabilities, for paired data
Change some file names during a backup with rsync
Here, "supports" appears in the plural. Why is there this difference in usage? ("Analysis on Manifolds" by James R. Munkres.)
How many of each type of dice could you possibly need?
Why don't military fighter jets have static wicks?
How do I get rid of this Adobe Acrobat “Make Adobe Acrobat your default PDF app” notification?
Optimization of a function that recursively splits a sequence of tokens
Why proving the well-definedness for the quotient map is different here?
Why don't people add "coverage" intervals on the p-values they report? (E.g. from bootstrapping the sampling distribution of p-values)
Could there be a set of vectors that is linearly independent in the usual sense, but becomes linearly dependent if we allow infinite sums?
When physicists talk about light acting as a wave, are they referring to the wave function, or the EM field? What’s the difference?
What resources are available for identifying a particular Space Shuttle launch?
Workflows for hair semi rigging and semi simulation?
Lean4 `rfl` causes error "no goals to be solved"
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
lang-cpp
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.12.33943