Ben & Jerry's Cofounder Jerry Greenfield Quits Over 'Silenced' Activism - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Retail
The Jerry from Ben & Jerry's has quit after 47 years — and is criticizing parent company Unilever on his way out
By
Alex Bitter
Jerry Greenfield is parting ways with the company he cofounded, Ben and Jerry's.
Jakub Porzycki/NurPhoto
2025-09-17T13:52:15Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Ben & Jerry's cofounder Jerry Greenfield is leaving the ice cream brand.
Greenfield said he had experienced pushback from parent company Unilever on the brand's advocacy on social issues.
Ben & Jerry's has spent years in a battle with Unilever over the brand's ability to take a stance on various social issues.
There won't be a Jerry at Ben & Jerry's anymore.
Jerry Greenfield, one of the ice cream brand's co-founders, said late Tuesday that he was leaving the company after 47 years.Greenfield criticized the ice-cream brand's parent company, Unilever, in his announcement, saying that it had silenced Ben & Jerry's activism on social and political issues.
"It's with a broken heart that I've decided I can no longer, in good conscience, and after 47 years, remain an employee at Ben & Jerry's," Greenfield wrote in a statement shared by his cofounder, Ben Cohen, on X. "I am resigning from the company Ben and I started back in 1978. This is one of the hardest and most painful decisions I've ever made."After 47 years, Jerry has made the difficult decision to step down from the company we built together. I’m sharing his words as he resigns from Ben & Jerry’s. His legacy deserves to be true to our values, not silenced by @MagnumGlobal #FreeBenAndJerrys pic.twitter.com/EZXGRjs76a— Ben Cohen (@YoBenCohen) September 17, 2025
Unilever bought Ben & Jerry's for $326 million in 2000. The acquisition contained a provision that allowed Ben & Jerry's to advocate for social and political causes.In 2021, that part of the agreement was tested after Ben & Jerry's said that it would stop selling its ice cream in Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
A dispute between Unilever and Ben & Jerry's followed, including a fight in court.
Ben & Jerry's co-founders Jerry Greenfield (left) and Ben Cohen founded the company in 1978.
Win McNamee/Getty Images
"It's profoundly disappointing to come to the conclusion that that independence, the very basis of our sale to Unilever, is gone," Greenfield wrote in his statement."Standing up for the values of justice, equity, and our shared humanity has never been more important, and yet Ben & Jerry's has been silenced, sidelined for fear of upsetting those in power," he wrote.
A spokesperson for the Magnum Ice Cream Company, Unilever's portfolio of ice cream brands, said that the company thanked Greenfield "for his service and support over many decades and wish him well in his next chapter." Unilever is in the process of spinning off its ice cream business from the rest of the company.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"We disagree with his perspective and have sought to engage both co-founders in a constructive conversation on how to strengthen Ben & Jerry's powerful values-based position in the world," the spokesperson said."We remain committed to Ben & Jerry's unique three-part mission — product, economic and social — and remain focused on carrying forward the legacy of peace, love, and ice cream of this iconic, much-loved brand," the spokesperson added.
Ben & Jerry's and its founders have waded into political issues over the years.Several of Ben & Jerry's flavors have nodded to political causes, such as 2009's "Yes Pecan," a reference to Barack Obama's campaign slogan, and 2021's "Change in Brewing," which the company released after the killing of George Floyd and calls to reform the police system.The company has also released statements in support of movements such as Occupy Wall Street and Black Lives Matter.
In May, Cohen was arrested after interrupting a US Senate hearing as part of a protest against the war in Gaza."It was always about more than just ice cream; it was a way to spread love and invite others into the fight for equity, justice and a better world," Greenfield said."Coming to the conclusion that this is no longer possible at Ben & Jerry's means I can no longer remain part of Ben & Jerry's," he added.
Recommended video
Food
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account