John Rhea on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
John Rhea
John is a storyteller with design and development skills. He likes cupcakes, the word "falafel" and using zombies to teach web development (https://undead.institute)
His mom thinks he's very funny.
@storykaboom
·
undead.institute
Direct link to the article polygon()
polygon()
The CSS polygon() function allows you to create any type of polygon to use in the shape-outside, clip-path, and offset-path properties.
Jul 24, 2025
Direct link to the article xywh()
xywh()
The CSS xywh() function allows you to create rectangles by setting the upper-left corner point and the width and height for use in the shape-outside, clip-path properties.
Jul 15, 2025
Direct link to the article inset()
inset()
The CSS inset() function allows you to create rectangles to use with the shape-outside, clip-path, and offset-path properties.
Jul 15, 2025
Direct link to the article ellipse()
ellipse()
The CSS ellipse() function allows you to create ellipses when used with the shape-outside, clip-path, and offset-path properties.…
Jul 15, 2025
Direct link to the article circle()
circle()
The CSS circle() function allows you to create, you guessed it, circles when used with the shape-outside, clip-path, and offset-path properties.…
Jul 15, 2025
Direct link to the article path()
path()
The CSS path() function enables us to create complex paths, polygons and other shapes using SVG path command syntax.
Jul 15, 2025
Direct link to the article shape()
shape()
The CSS shape() function enables us to more easily create complex paths, polygons and other shapes using a more human readable syntax using lines, arcs, and curves. It also allows much greater flexibility and responsiveness in the use of units than the CSS path() function.
Jul 15, 2025
Direct link to the article This Isn’t Supposed to Happen: Troubleshooting the Impossible
Case Studies SVG
This Isn’t Supposed to Happen: Troubleshooting the Impossible
What it looks like to troubleshoot one of those impossible issues that turns out to be something totally else you never thought of.
May 14, 2025
Direct link to the article Orbital Mechanics (or How I Optimized a CSS Keyframes Animation)
animation
Orbital Mechanics (or How I Optimized a CSS Keyframes Animation)
What does it look like to refactor your own code? John Rhea picks apart an old CSS animation he wrote and walks through the thought process of optimizing it.
May 8, 2025
1
2
Older
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top