How a 1-Word Business Plan Can Transform Your Company | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Starting a Business
Breadcrumb Arrow
Business Plans
How to Create a 1-Word Business Plan That Cuts Through Complexity and Drives Results
Entrepreneurs can replace complexity with a one-word business plan — a simple, powerful theme that aligns their vision, motivates their team and drives results all year long.
By
Nicholas Leighton
Edited by
Chelsea Brown
Sep 17, 2025
Share
Copy
Key Takeaways
Reflect on your past 12 months, listing your biggest wins, proudest achievements, what worked well and what didn't.
Identify new opportunities and pinpoint your biggest challenges.
Craft your future vision, brainstorm a list of words associated with your vision and then choose the one that aligns best.
After choosing your word, make it actionable and communicate it clearly with your team.
Opinions expressed by Entrepreneur contributors are their own.
Entrepreneurs live in a world of high-stakes decisions and constant motion. Every day, you are bombarded with problems to solve, opportunities to seize and teams to lead. Through the chaos, it's easy to feel overwhelmed and mentally drained. No matter how much gets done, your list continues to grow.In an attempt to gain control, entrepreneurs spend countless hours attempting to craft the perfect business plan. While most of these business plans are an impressive compilation of detailed objectives, progress trackers and PowerPoint slides, they often end up collecting dust.The challenge is that most plans are unnecessarily complex, which makes them difficult to execute. Instead, entrepreneurs can simplify this process by focusing their entire business vision on a single, powerful one-word theme for the year. This one-word business plan then acts as a strategic compass as opposed to a rigid map. Focusing on your one word will help the team stay aligned throughout the year and guide every action.
Related: 5 Ways to Simplify Your Business Plan and Almost Anything Else1. Reflect on your past 12 monthsBefore you can chart a course for the next 12 months, it's important to reflect on where you've been (and no, this doesn't have to be at the start of a new calendar year). Schedule time to review the past 12 months, and start by listing your biggest wins, proudest achievements, what worked well and what didn't. By being brutally honest about your past performance, you can lay the foundation for exploring potential opportunities, challenges and changes you want to focus on going forward.
2. Identify new opportunitiesBeyond looking inside your organization, it's important to take a look outward for new opportunities. Are there any trends that you haven't capitalized on yet? Are there new markets or revenue streams that are untapped? A good way to identify these opportunities is to stay current by participating in industry events, reading relevant industry publications and networking.Look for opportunities that involve new technologies, changing consumer behaviors and an evolving competitive landscape. Once you have a list of these new opportunities, you can identify which ones align with the strengths of your business and team, especially those that your competitors would struggle to replicate.3. Pinpoint your biggest challengesThe next step is to turn your attention to what's holding you back. Internal challenges might include gaps like outdated software, inefficient team processes or a lack of clear communication. External challenges could include supplier availability, growing competitor market share or changes in laws or regulatory requirements.Entrepreneurs often have blind spots when it comes to identifying challenges in their business, so this is a good opportunity to gather feedback directly from your team. An outside perspective from a professional business coach or consultant can also be incredibly valuable.
Related: The Inevitable Challenges You'll Face as Your Business Grows — and How to Handle Them4. Craft your future visionIf you could wave a magic wand, where would your business be a year from now? As you craft this vision, consider all of the elements that you have evaluated up to this point. Think about what challenges you look to overcome and what opportunities you plan to seize.A good practice is to write this vision in the present tense. For example, "my business has doubled its sales" or "I've created processes for my team that allow me to have a better work-life balance." Writing in the present tense can help you envision how your future will feel and boost your excitement and motivation.5. Brainstorm and choose your wordThis is the creative heart of the process. Start by brainstorming a list of words associated with your vision. The key is to not censor yourself. Embrace the process and write down every word that comes to mind.
Once you have a list of a few dozen words, start eliminating them one at a time until you've found the one that aligns best with your vision. For example, a pest control company that wants to streamline its operation to reduce costs, improve customer response times and boost productivity might focus on the word "Processes." A marketing agency that feels it has lost its creative edge might choose the word "Authenticity" to guide its campaign development.If you don't find a word that resonates with you deeply, don't be afraid to scrap the list and try again. It's important to get this right.Related: How to Use Your Business Plan Most Effectively6. Make it actionable and engage the teamNow that you have your chosen word, it's time to let it drive your actions. The first step is to translate your word into concrete initiatives. Start by building a mind map of projects, changes and opportunities that support it.
For the pest control company I coach, focusing on "Processes" might mean a goal of streamlining a key process by 25%. For the marketing agency I coach, "Authenticity" might lead to a new policy to only work with brands that share their values. Ultimately, your word should be the primary filter for all decisions throughout the year.Of course, the most powerful vision is a shared one. Your chosen word will only be effective if your entire team understands it. Take the time to communicate your word clearly and explain the vision behind it. Tell them the story of how you chose it and show them how their individual roles and tasks contribute to the larger theme. When your team is truly aligned, they can make decisions with confidence, solve problems more efficiently and work as a cohesive unit toward a common goal.Embracing the one-word business plan can be an exciting new approach to leadership. It's all about doing more of what matters most and trading complexity for clarity. By distilling your vision into a single, powerful word, you can transform your business, empower your team and ensure that every choice you make moves you in exactly the right direction.
Entrepreneurs live in a world of high-stakes decisions and constant motion. Every day, you are bombarded with problems to solve, opportunities to seize and teams to lead. Through the chaos, it's easy to feel overwhelmed and mentally drained. No matter how much gets done, your list continues to grow.In an attempt to gain control, entrepreneurs spend countless hours attempting to craft the perfect business plan. While most of these business plans are an impressive compilation of detailed objectives, progress trackers and PowerPoint slides, they often end up collecting dust.The challenge is that most plans are unnecessarily complex, which makes them difficult to execute. Instead, entrepreneurs can simplify this process by focusing their entire business vision on a single, powerful one-word theme for the year. This one-word business plan then acts as a strategic compass as opposed to a rigid map. Focusing on your one word will help the team stay aligned throughout the year and guide every action.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Nicholas Leighton
Entrepreneur Leadership Network® Contributor
Best-selling author, speaker & business owner executive coach
Nick Leighton believes that business owners should make more money and have more free time. He does this through his best-selling book "Exactly Where You Want to Be – A Business Owner’s Guide to Passion, Profit and Happiness," speaking and coaching. #ChampagneMoment.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
Taylor Swift and Amazon Share This 'Destructive' Superpower That Drives Serious Success, Says Former Harvard Business School Strategist
'Most Powerful Yet': Apple Just Revealed the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and AirPods With Live Translation. Here's What to Know.
I Own a Professional Rugby Team — Here Are the 5 Biggest Lessons It's Taught Me About Business Leadership
This Mom's Garage Side Hustle for Kids Became a Business With $1 Billion Revenue
Franchisors Have a Secret Weapon Against Rising Costs. Here's How It Works.
This 29-Year-Old's Business Helps Young People Without Work Experience Earn Tens of Thousands and Launch Their Careers: 'You're Not Just Your Major'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Buying / Investing in Business
From a $120M Acquisition to a $1.3T Market
Co-ownership is creating big opportunities for entrepreneurs.
By
StackCommerce
Buying / Investing in Business
Big Investors Are Betting on This 'Unlisted' Stock
You can join them as an early-stage investor as this company disrupts a $1.3T market.
By
StackCommerce
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Business News
The Federal Reserve Is Expected to Cut Interest Rates Today. Here's What It Means For Your Wallet.
A rate cut would be the first change to federal interest rates this year.
By
Sherin Shibu
Science & Technology
Healthcare Data Breaches Hit Millions Last Year Alone — Here's What Founders Must Do Now
Founders, it's time to rethink the health data economy.
By
Christopher Crecelius
Side Hustle
His Salty Side Hustle Saw Revenue 'From Day 1' and Hit $10 Million Last Year
Seth Goldstein, 29, and his friend Steven Rofrano got their business idea after a snack break in Miami.
By
Amanda Breen
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC