What's the Ideal Water-to-Coffee Ratio When Brewing a Pot? I Asked an Expert - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
Home Kitchen & Household
What's the Ideal Water-to-Coffee Ratio When Brewing a Pot? I Asked an Expert
The so-called "Golden Ratio" is an industry standard for brewing coffee, but there's more to making a perfect pot.
Pamela Vachon Contributor Pamela is a freelance food and travel writer based in Astoria, Queens. While she writes about most things edible and potable (and accessories dedicated to those topics,) her real areas of expertise are cheese, chocolate, cooking and wine. She's a culinary school grad, certified sommelier, former bartender and fine dining captain with 10 years in the industry. When not sitting at the keys, she leads in-home cheese classes, wine tastings and cocktail demonstrations. Expertise Wine | Cheese | Chocolate | Cooking
See full bio
Pamela Vachon
Sept. 19, 2025
3:00 a.m. PT 6 min read
Knowing the "Golden Ratio" for brewing coffee is a good place to start. Sana Grebinets/Getty Images
You're probably making coffee the same way every day: using the same device and the same coffee grounds, and then probably even sipping from the same mug. So then, why does it seem that some days, that first steaming sip of your home brew transports you into an indie coffee shop reverie, and others make you think you could have done better at a gas station?
If you're using a K-Cup machine, you can probably excuse yourself from this conversation since consistency is the primary benefit of those devices. Espresso machines also have a different set of considerations, which we'll save for another day. For those of us jonesing for a typical cup of morning joe and relying on other methods -- standard drip machines, French press or even the almighty pour-over method -- what gives?Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source on Chrome.Several factors influence the flavor of your coffee, but perhaps none so much as the ratio of water to grounds. Being fussy about what you put into your coffee-making device, both in terms of quality and precise measurement, significantly impacts the result. Best Coffee Subscriptions for 2025
See at Cnet
The perfect coffee for you might not be the same for someone else, but armed with information, you can better experiment to achieve a consistent cup that best suits your unique taste. For a deeper understanding of the "Golden Ratio," the variables that influence it, and other best practices from an expert, I spoke to Kaleena Teoh, co-founder and director of education for Coffee Project New York, for her insight.What is the Golden Ratio?
If you're aiming for the Golden Ratio, use one ounce of coffee for every 15 or 16 ounces of water. FG Trade Latin/GettyThe so-called "Golden Ratio" refers to the ideal proportions of water and ground coffee at the beginning of the brewing process, resulting in a full-flavored, balanced cup. "The Specialty Coffee Association, an international organization that pretty much governs the guidelines that we use, suggests between a 15 to 1 to 20 to 1 ratio," according to Teoh. "It literally refers to the amount of water versus the amount of coffee grounds," she says, "and then the resulting volume at the end might vary entirely depending on what kind of system it is," whether automatic drip, French press, or pour-over. The Golden Ratio is based on weight, not volumeIt's worth noting that this ratio is based on weight, not volume. While coffee scoops may be calibrated for a particular grind size for a specific type of machine, the ratio's effectiveness relies on a more precise measurement. A tablespoon potentially holds a different weight of coffee, whether you're talking about fine espresso powder, conventional preground coffee or coarse cold brew grounds.Best Kitchen Scales for 2025
See at Cnet
The goal of this precise ratio is flavor, with the appropriate strength to taste the actual coffee without elevated acidity, which reveals under-extraction, or astringency, which reveals over-extraction, and that can support additions like milk or sugar. "Personally, I do a 16 to 1 ratio," says Teoh, "which is frequently touted as the ideal within the 15 to 20 range. I think it's nice, not too strong, and is a good place to start." That ratio would ensure you taste the coffee even if you add stuff to it.The higher the number in the ratio, which represents water, the gentler (or weaker) the resulting brew. So, if you take your coffee black, you may consider a slightly different ratio, like 17 or 18 to one. You might try a 15-to-1 ratio for a stronger coffee if you drink it light and sweet.Other factors influence how effective the ratio is
There is no shortage of nuance when it comes to brewing coffee.  Stefania Pelfini/La Waziya Photography/Getty ImagesThe ratio alone isn't enough to ensure an optimal cup. The following elements also play a major role in the outcome of brewed coffee. Grind sizeThe size of the grind plays a vital role in how coffee is extracted. Conventional, preground coffee typically has a "medium" grind tailored for most drip coffee machines, but that isn't always appropriate across all methods. According to Teoh, a French press typically requires a coarser grind, "like sea salt," whereas pour-over can benefit from a slightly finer grind than what you can find on supermarket shelves.Temperature
Water should hit ground coffee at anywhere between 195 to 205 Fahrenheit. Chris Monroe/CNETTemperature also impacts how coffee is extracted. "The moment the water hits coffee, it will start extracting," says Teoh, "whether it's cold or hot."Cold brew is its own magical thing, of course, but when it comes to hot coffee, there's an ideal temperature range, and -- news flash -- it isn't boiling. "Anywhere between 195 to 205 Fahrenheit is what the SCA suggests," says Teoh, which allows for a temp where the extraction happens in such a way as to maximize certain flavor compounds in the coffee, while still maintaining an appropriate temperature to drink.AgitationAgitation refers to the movement of the grounds during extraction. "The more agitation you give it when coffee is being extracted, the more concentration occurs during brewing," explains Teoh. For brewed coffee, agitation is limited in standard machines, but plays a role in French press and pour-over methods. Suppose you've experimented with various drip coffee machines and coffee grounds and have always been a little underwhelmed with the results for your personal liking. In that case, it may be time to consider getting nerdy with something like pour-over, which can be fussy, but can help with this aspect of the brewing process.Filter
The filter you use has a significant impact on the final result. Taylor Martin/CNETThe filter you use is the final barrier between what's happening during the extraction process and what arrives in your cup. "Different filters have different pore sizes, allowing certain elements to pass through or not," explains Teoh. "Metal filters will allow for all solubles and some insolubles," she says, "while a paper filter will be able to hold back all of those insolubles, giving you a very clean cup." Insolubles may refer to minute granules of ground coffee and natural oils present in coffee.One is not necessarily better than the other; it is a matter of preference. Oil can give coffee additional body, but it isn't necessarily always desirable for everyone, either visually or texturally. Best practices from a coffee expertTo achieve the most out of the golden ratio, Teoh suggests practices that can make a noticeable difference in your daily brew.Measurement
To nail the Golden Ratio, use weight instead of volume to measure your coffee. Basak Gurbuz Derman/Getty ImagesThe Golden Ratio relies on weight, so a scale is recommended to achieve that ideal 16-to-1 balance of water to coffee grounds. "Everything is being weighed in most coffee shops to ensure that there's some sort of consistency," says Teoh, from the grounds to the water and even, in the case of espresso, the resulting brew. If you're serious about upping your coffee game, a scale is a pertinent investment, and it doesn't have to be an expensive one.Barring that, "any unit of measurement that makes sense to the brewer, to have some sort of consistency through the brew day to day is better than nothing," says Teoh, bad news for the "eyeball it" method, but good for those where a kitchen scale is just one gadget too many. If you're committed to measuring by volume, however, whether that's with a tablespoon or coffee scoop, she advises experimentation and precision to determine the best outcome for you. Coffee qualityNaturally, a better cup of coffee also starts with better coffee, no matter the measurement system. "Fresh beans will always taste better," says Teoh. "Go to a local roaster and get freshly roasted coffee." Look at tasting notes, speak to the staff at the roastery, and taste different blends to determine if you like something bright and acidic, as with a light roast coffee, or more floral and fruity notes, as with a darker roast.Grinder
A burr grinder is a worthy good investment, according to Teoh. Patrick Holland/CNETMore so than the scale, and even more so than the coffee maker itself, Teoh advises one device that can really affect the quality of your coffee. "The best investment is actually the grinder," she says. "Get a coffee machine that can do its job. It doesn't have to be the most expensive one. But a burr grinder is actually an excellent investment," she says. Ideally, as with a cheaper model, you want a grinder with settings that take the guesswork out of determining how fine the grind is."If you've just been buying preground coffee, and you moved on to grinding it fresh, you will see quite a big difference in the cup," says Teoh.Best Coffee Grinders We Tested
See at Cnet
ConsistencyFinally, the most crucial factor combined with all of the above is consistency, and not committing yourself to products or processes that you can't follow through with regularly. "Just use a method that is convenient to you, and that you're able to use every day, because if it's too much and too complicated, you'll end up stopping," says Teoh."Pick something that you're comfortable with and can do consistently," whether with a particular ratio, particular beans, or particular devices. "And then play with it," she says. "Experiment with it until you find something that you like."
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.