Visit The White House – The White House
Menu
President Donald J. Trump
The
White House
Search
News
Articles
Briefings & Statements
Fact Sheets
Presidential Actions
Executive Orders
Nominations & Appointments
Presidential Memoranda
Proclamations
Remarks
Administration
Donald J. Trump
JD Vance
Melania Trump
Usha Vance
The Cabinet
Media
Video Library
Gallery
Live News
White House Wire
Issues
History
America 250
The Founders Museum
America’s Founding Fathers
Moments That Made Us
Road to Revolution: A Timeline
Signers of the Declaration of Independence
Our Government
Get in Touch
Contact
Visit
Internships
X
Instagram
Facebook
Search for:
Press Enter to Search
White House Tours
Visit The White House
Announcement Regarding Upcoming Expansion
For 150 years, Presidents, Administrations, and White House Staff have longed for a large event space on the White House complex that can hold substantially more guests than currently allowed. President Donald J. Trump has expressed his commitment to solving this problem on behalf of future Administrations and the American people.The White House is one of the most beautiful and historic buildings in the world, yet the White House is currently unable to host major functions honoring world leaders and other countries without having to install a large and unsightly tent approximately 100 yards away from the main building entrance. The White House State Ballroom will be a much-needed and exquisite addition of approximately 90,000 total square feet of ornately designed and carefully crafted space, with a seated capacity of 650 people — a significant increase from the 200-person seated capacity in the East Room of the White House.In recent weeks, President Trump has held several meetings with members of the White House Staff, the National Park Service, the White House Military Office, and the United States Secret Service to discuss design features and planning. President Trump has chosen McCrery Architects as lead architect, which is well-known for their classical architectural design and based in our nation’s capital. CEO Jim McCrery said: “Presidents in the modern era have faced challenges hosting major events at the White House because it has been untouched since President Harry Truman. I am honored that President Trump has entrusted me to help bring this beautiful and necessary renovation to The People’s House, while preserving the elegance of its classical design and historical importance.”The construction team will be headed by Clark Construction, and the engineering team will be led by AECOM. The project will begin in September 2025, and it is expected to be completed long before the end of President Trump’s term. President Trump, and other patriot donors, have generously committed to donating the funds necessary to build this approximately $200 million dollar structure. The United States Secret Service will provide the necessary security enhancements and modifications. The White House Ballroom will be substantially separated from the main building of the White House, but at the same time, it’s theme and architectural heritage will be almost identical. The site of the new ballroom will be where the small, heavily changed, and reconstructed East Wing currently sits. The East Wing was constructed in 1902 and has been renovated and changed many times, with a second story added in 1942. The White House Chief of Staff Susie Wiles said the following: “President Trump is a builder at heart and has an extraordinary eye for detail. The President and the Trump White House are fully committed to working with the appropriate organizations to preserving the special history of the White House while building a beautiful ballroom that can be enjoyed by future Administrations and generations of Americans to come.”
The White House will continue to provide the American public with updates on this project; in the interim, view the beautiful renderings below.
Interior View Looking South
Interior View Looking Southwest
Interior View Looking West
Exterior View from East Colonnade Roof Terrace
Exterior View from Southwest
Exterior View of Northeast Portico
Exterior View from Northeast
Exterior View from Southeast
Interior View from South Lawn
View from Northeast
View from East
Previous
Next
Welcome
President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump are delighted to welcome you to tour the White House. Tours can be requested via your Member of Congress (U.S. Representative or U.S. Senator).
You may reach your Member of Congress through the United States Capitol Switchboard at 202-224-3121 (TTY: 202-225-1904), or online at congress.gov/members.
Operating hours and timely updates can be found at the 24hr information line: 202-456-7041.
Book a Tour
What is included on The White House tour
Tours of The White House include the public rooms in the East Wing and the Residence, which include the Vermeil Room, the Library, the China Room, the Blue Room, Red Room, Green Room, the State Dining Room, and a view of the White House Kennedy Garden. Secret Service Officers are stationed along the tour route and are available to answer questions about each room’s history, art, furnishings, current uses, and beyond.
Reserve your tour
White House tour requests should be made through your Member of Congress, which may be submitted 7 – 90 days in advance of the requested tour date.
Tours are generally available 7:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. Tuesday through Thursday as well as 7:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Friday through Saturday (excluding Federal holidays or unless otherwise noted). When possible, public tour hours will be extended based on the official White House schedule.
All White House tours are free of charge.
Tour schedules may change at any time, with little notice, due to inclement weather or scheduling conflicts, even after your tour is confirmed.
Learn more
FAQs
News
Wire
Issues
Contact
Visit
EOP
Administration
Gallery
Video Library
America 250
Founding Fathers
The Signers
Subscribe to The White House newsletter
Please leave blank.
Text POTUS to 45470 to receive updates
The White House
1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW
Washington, DC 20500
X
Instagram
Facebook
WH.GOV
Copyright
Privacy
Back to top