T-Mobile will give you a free iPhone 17 Pro today - here's how to qualify | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
iPhone
T-Mobile will give you a free iPhone 17 Pro today - here's how to qualify
At T-Mobile, you can get the all-new iPhone 17 Pro for free when you sign up for or switch to the Experience Beyond mobile plan and use a qualifying trade-in.
Written by
Taylor Clemons, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 19, 2025 at 7:24 a.m. PT
Jason Hiner/ZDNETT-Mobile: iPhone 17 Pro for free with qualifying plan and trade-in Save $1,100
4/5 Editor's deal rating View at T-Mobile The latest iPhone 17 lineup is finally here, including the iPhone 17 Pro with its A19 Pro processor for improved battery life and performance. And if you're ready to upgrade your smartphone, right now at T-Mobile, you can get an iPhone 17 Pro for free when you have a qualifying trade-in and sign up for or switch to the Experience Beyond mobile plan. If you're switching to T-Mobile on the Experience More or Go5G Plus plans, you can get a base model iPhone 17 or up to $830 off any iPhone 17 model, no trade-in required.Also: Every iPhone 17 model compared: Should you buy the base model, Air, Pro, or Max?
Save $1,100
T-Mobile: iPhone 17 Pro for free with qualifying plan and trade-in
$0 at T-Mobile The iPhone 17 Pro features a 6.3-inch Super Retina XDR display for better color accuracy, detailing, and contrast while viewing photos or streaming video. It also supports Dolby Vision HDR for enhanced picture quality. The phone body itself is made of a single piece of aluminum and coated in a scratch-resistant ceramic to protect the delicate electronics inside. The version T-Mobile is offering for free as part of the deal sports 256GB of internal storage, but there are options available, all the way up to 2TB.Read more: Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro: I compared both models, and here's how they differ The A19 Pro processor helps improve battery life, with up to 33 hours of use on a full charge. This means you can talk, text, and stream all day before you even need to think about topping up. With the Fusion camera system, you'll get 48MP ultra-wide, telephoto, and primary lenses for shooting professional-quality video and photos; the 18MP front camera delivers high-quality recordings and streaming for content creation and video calls. The iPhone 17 Pro also features a suite of emergency functions like crash detection, satellite connectivity for texting and calling, and emergency SOS messaging to first responders and trusted contacts. The iPhone 17 Pro and the others in the line are available now, and T-Mobile offers plenty of information on the deal so you can decide if the phone is worth the upgrade. To take advantage of this deal, new and existing T-Mobile customers have to sign up for the Experience Beyond mobile plan for unlimited talk, text, and data. The deal is paid out over 24 monthly bill credits -- if you cancel your account before then, you'll need to pay the remaining balance. Customers also have to pay a $35 activation fee to connect their new phone to their account, as well as all applicable taxes and service fees. You'll also need a qualifying device to trade in to be able to get the full discount; if your trade-in isn't an approved brand or in poor condition, you may be responsible for a portion of the retail price of your new iPhone 17 Pro.Looking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.How I rated this deal The iPhone 17 Pro is one of Apple's newest smartphone offerings, with a premium price tag to match. Even with having to pay an activation fee along with taxes and service fees, paying around $50 out of pocket for one of the latest iPhones is a steal. Getting a free, premium mobile device helps take the sting out of the somewhat high monthly cost of the Experience Beyond unlimited mobile plan from T-Mobile. That's why I gave this deal a 4/5 Editor's deal rating.
When will this deal expire?
Deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com.
Show more
How do we rate deals at ZDNET?
We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
Why I'm recommending the iPhone 17 over the Pro models this year (and it goes beyond price)
I'm skipping the iPhone 17 Pro this year - 3 reasons the base model makes more sense
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use