NPR Network | Free, independent journalism across the nation : NPR
Find your local station
Donate
Free and independent journalism from your community, your country, your world.
Rather than exploring what matters from the top down, the NPR Network gives
everyone a voice. We’re a network of over 200 local newsrooms, bringing all Americans
closer through journalism, music, politics, and culture. Our local-national-global blend fully
immerses you in your world, so you can understand it better.
Donate
Find your local station
Find your local station
Our network of journalists, embedded in communities across the nation,
deliver breaking news, expertise, and stories that you can’t find anywhere else.
Breaking News
When major news breaks in a community, local Member station reporters can be the first on the scene.
NPR listeners across the country heard Texas Public Radio’s Brian Kirkpatrick
describe the horrific
scene at the Uvalde school where a shooter killed 19 children and two teachers. To deliver reliable
information to Spanish speakers in the community over the following days, the station translated
stories and posted them on its Noticias web page.
Expertise
Whether it’s NPR’s Michele Kelemen at the State Department or Nashville Public Radio’s Blake Farmer on the
health beat, NPR Network journalists bring deep knowledge and experience to help people make sense of their
world.
Education reporters from Member stations in Indiana and Oregon teamed up with NPR’s Ed Desk to explore
age-appropriate, comprehensive
sex education
in schools. And NPR’s Climate Desk reporter Rebecca Hersher
explained the relationship between
hurricanes and climate change.
Untold Stories
From ambitious investigations to moments of joy, the NPR Network delivers stories you won’t find anywhere else.
We share overlooked perspectives and lift up voices that must be heard.
Extreme heat is claiming the lives of U.S. agriculture and construction workers with greater frequency.
An investigation by NPR and Member stations examined the lack of federal rules to protect them. And
the Gulf States Newsroom probed the challenges Cameroonian asylum seekers face in Louisiana and Mississippi.
Cultural Discovery
If you want to meet a first-time novelist, catch a new music artist or preview the best TV shows to stream,
the NPR Network does that too. We serve up arts, entertainment, science, technology and more to keep you
abreast of the nation’s zeitgeist.
Our offerings include NPR’s legendary Tiny Desk
concerts, Books We Love,
Code Switch conversations about
race and the Short Wave science podcast, along with
World Cafe from WXPN,
Fresh Air from WHYY and
lots of can’t-miss podcasts from across the NPR Network.
It takes all of us.
When you support the NPR Network, you keep journalists on the ground.
You lift up voices too often ignored. And you keep our journalism independent.
Donate
Contact Us
FAQ
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
© 2022 npr