Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger launches bid in Georgia governor's race - CBS Atlanta
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
CDC Vaccine Vote
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Atlanta
|
News
Weather
Meet Our Team
News Tips
Download Our App
Advertise
Watch CBS News
Local News
Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger launches bid in Georgia governor's race
By
Dan
Raby
Dan
Raby
Senior Digital Producer, CBS News Atlanta
Dan Raby, the senior digital producer for CBS News Atlanta, has been covering everything happening around Georgia for more than a decade.
Read Full Bio
Dan
Raby
September 17, 2025 / 1:04 PM EDT
/ CBS Atlanta
Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger has announced he'll be the latest high-profile politician running to be the Peach State's next governor.Raffensberger, who became a national figure after he was asked by President Trump to "find" 11,779 in the 2020 election, joins a crowded field to replace Gov. Brian Kemp, who is leaving office due to term limits.In a video announcing his candidacy, Raffensperger highlighted his work on Georgia's elections, touting a 2021 Heritage Foundation survey that found the state was first in "election integrity," as well as his Christian faith and business acumen.
Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger attends a news conference for Gov. Brian Kemp in 2020.
Dustin Chambers / Bloomberg via Getty Images
"I'm a conservative Republican, and I'm prepared to make the tough decisions. I follow the law and the Constitution, and I'll always do the right thing for Georgia no matter what," Raffensperger said.If he is elected, Raffensperger pledged to have an administration with a "bold conservative agenda," which included eliminating the state income tax, capping property taxes for seniors, banning drugs that block puberty from gender-affirming care, and purging "woke curriculums" from schools. He also promised to work with the president to increase jobs, deport immigrants with criminal records, and "restore law and order."Raffensperger's conflicts with Georgia RepublicansThe election official's campaign will test Republican primary voters' tolerance for a candidate who had been targeted by Mr. Trump in the past. In 2022, Raffensperger defeated three challengers in the Republican primary, including one who the then-former president had endorsed, before cruising to reelection over the Democratic candidate.
Earlier this year, Georgia's Republican Party voted to ban Raffensperger from running under the party's banner. Party Chairman Josh McKoon said that GOP's attempt might not go anywhere due to Georgia law.Who else is in the Georgia governor's race?Raffensperger joins two other top Republicans who are already in the race — Lt. Gov. Burt Jones and Attorney General Chris Carr. Jones swore himself to be a "duly elected and qualified" elector for Trump in 2020 even though Democrat Joe Biden had been declared the state's winner. Carr sided with Raffensperger in rejecting challenges to the results. Other Republican candidates include Atlanta businessman Clark Dean, Scotty Ellison, and Gregg Kirkpatrick.On the Democratic side, the top candidates include former Atlanta Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, state Sen. Jason Esteves, and former state Labor Commissioner Michael Thurmond. Former Lt. Gov. Geoff Duncan switched parties after criticizing Mr. Trump and entered the governor's race Tuesday as a Democrat.Despite a later start than other candidates, Raffensperger has the benefit of an electorate that already knows him and the ability to finance his own campaign. The 70-year-old sold his concrete reinforcement company, Tendon Systems, for an undisclosed amount in 2023.
Brad Raffensperger
Georgia
Election
Dan
Raby
Dan Raby, the senior digital producer for CBS News Atlanta, has been covering everything happening around Georgia for more than a decade.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
More from CBS News
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Regulation
Public File for WUPA-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue