A 3D Scan Showed Me Exercises to Do to Protect My Body Against Aging - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Corrie Aune for BI
Health
I thought strength training would protect me from aging. A 3D scan showed me I need to make 1 change.
Corrie Aune for BI
By Julia Pugachevsky
2025-09-25T10:59:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
No matter how sore I've gotten, how many personal trainers have commented on my tight hamstrings, or all the data that supports doing regular mobility exercises, I simply do not stretch.I don't want to be this way. I've tried to stop slouching by setting reminders to stretch and wearing a posture-correcting necklace, only to repeatedly break both habits. I've even enjoyed the occasional yoga classes — until I topple over trying to hold a pose. Then I stop going.I'm not alone. Once a concern of older generations, mobility and flexibility are now the longevity trends du jour among millennials and Gen Zers.
I've gotten assessments that measured my body fat percentage and VO2 max through the athletic club Life Time, leading me to change my workouts and cut down on ultra-processed foods. I decided to try Kinotek, a functional movement assessment that would measure my mobility, a test I was sure I'd flunk.Up until recently, doctors physically measured mobility using protractors. Tools like Kinotek, launched in 2022, use 3D visuals to provide more in-depth information, such as asymmetry in the body. Companies like Kinetisense and DARI Motion offer similar services, both of which are FDA-cleared to be legally marketed. (Kinotek is registered with the FDA, which means that the company can sell its product in the US.)While these tools alone can't diagnose conditions like scoliosis (which requires an X-ray), they can still provide helpful information about the basics.Doctors, while skeptical of costly fads, welcome the extra information.
Nervously preparing to take the test.
Corrie Aune for BI
"On that premise, I really like what the space is trying to do — we just want better data points and have better ways to actually measure basic function, which includes range of motion," Dr. Vivek Babaria, a board-certified interventional spine and sports medicine physician who is not affiliated with Kinotek or Life Time, told Business Insider.The test taught me that while I'm indeed a danger-zone stiff in one area, some workouts have paid off in slowly improving my mobility. I also learned what I need to do to keep things from getting worse (you'll never believe what they are!).
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The test was quick and simple
I performed five movements, captured by a 3D camera.
Corrie Aune for BI
Before we began the test, Donovan Stewart, a personal trainer at Life Time, took a look at the soles of my shoes. Based on the wear, he said I was right-leg dominant, which could suggest some imbalances later in the assessment.
Stewart looked at my shoes to note any imbalances in the sole wear.
Corrie Aune for BI
The test itself was simple and took about 10 minutes. I stood in front of a camera and mimicked Donovan's movements, such as squats, shoulder rotations, and hurdle steps while holding a pole.
All my movements were recorded on a LiDAR camera to create 3D images.
Corrie Aune fo BI
I learned exactly what my weak points areWhile my results weren't stellar, I didn't perform as poorly as I thought I would.
How I scored in various movements.
Kinotek/Life Time
They showed me where I had lower range of motion and asymmetry (the areas in red). I also learned where I had good mobility, like in my right hurdle step (Yes, I am holding on to that fleeting sense of glory). Stewart also said my squat form looked good — something I've been actively working to improve in my strength training classes.Still, I saw lots of early warning signs of future health issues in my chart. While I feel fine now, Stewart advised me to start doing the work now to avoid pain in decades to come.
Stewart showing me a 3D animation of my movements.
Corrie Aune for BI
Left ignored, the consequences can be serious. Babaria said tightness now can lead to conditions like early onset arthritis (arthritis before 30) or frozen shoulder. "The range of motion continues to degrade, and then that turns into pain," he said, as the joint starts to break down over time. "That sooner breakdown causes more pain."
Stewart suggested common, easy stretches for my shoulders and classic yoga poses like cat-cow and downward-facing dog.Heavier workouts alone won't fix my desk-centered lifestyle
Shoulder rotation was the hardest for me because of my desk job.
Corrie Aune for BI
Ironically, the only area I performed poorly in was the move I thought I nailed. Stewart asked me to bend my arms at 90 degrees and raise and lower them. Easy.I learned that my shoulder rotation is both asymmetrical and stiff. A common cause of that? Spending most of the day curved over a desk.
This was my only score in the red zone.
Kinotek/Life Time
"We can clearly say that Americans are moving less and sitting more, which is causing a lot of postural changes," Babaria said. People who work full-time desk jobs can lose mobility in their arms because "you end up having your shoulders roll inward," Babaria said.
He added that with any movement, you always want to have a counter-movement (such as a push to a pull) to avoid your joints morphing into more restrictive patterns. So if you do a bench press (a push movement), you should follow with a row (a pull). I scored the lowest in external shoulder rotation, and I rarely do anything to offset how rolled-in my upper body is.Like many Americans, I've been thinking more and more about my longevity, taking up strength training for over two years to offset future muscle mass loss. Unfortunately, Babaria said those alone won't save me. In fact, without stretching, they can even make my body more rigid.He's seen first-hand the risks of taking intense workout classes to mitigate sedentary lifestyles. Patients are going from sitting all day to performing challenging movements without stretching first."We're seeing the very fit population get hurt more frequently because they're going for more explosive movements," he said. In the long run, it makes them more prone to injuries.
Stewart showing me a video of my movements.
Corrie Aune for BI
As hard as it was to hear this — and watch 3D-animated diagrams of my lopsided shoulders on Stewart's computer — I'm glad I learned more beyond the vague guidance to stretch. If anything, it was encouraging! I'm not as inflexible as I thought.Right before the assessment, I started taking Pilates classes, which are excellent for building mobility. I used to opt out of these workouts, knowing I'd just collapse on the ground 15 minutes in.But recently, I realized that weight training also improved my core. Over two years, without really thinking about it, I did the impossible: gain a semblance of upper-body strength. What excuse do I have not to do the same for my flexibility?
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
More from Health
Most popular
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account