Lag-Free Internet: How to Find the Right Internet Speed for a Family of 4 (or More) - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Home Internet
Lag-Free Internet: How to Find the Right Internet Speed for a Family of 4 (or More)
Shopping for internet service can be complex, especially for large families. Here's how to find the right internet speed for your household.
Kaylyn McKenna
Kaylyn McKenna is a writer with extensive experience covering and reviewing home goods, beauty products and technology within the commerce space. She loves keeping audiences up-to-date on the latest products, deals, and streaming content.
See full bio
Kaylyn McKenna
Sept. 19, 2025
5:00 a.m. PT 7 min read
Jeffrey Hazelwood/CNET
There's a common misconception that there is a simple, universal answer to internet speed needs, such as choosing a plan based on the number of people in your household. The truth is that it's a bit more complicated than that. It's less about how many people are in your household and more about each person's digital lifestyle.  "I recommend families size their plan to their peak-hour routine," said Luke Kehoe, industry analyst at Ookla. (Disclosure: Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.) He also emphasized the importance of focusing on peak use, rather than averages. You don't want your video call to lag at the end of the workday when your kids are doing homework or playing video games after school.
Oscar Wong/Getty ImagesChoosing the right plan is essential for supporting your family's activities, from remote work to streaming to completing school assignments. A recent CNET survey found that 63% of US adults have seen their monthly internet costs increase within the past year, so balancing speed requirements with budgetary constraints is important. Here's what you need to know when shopping for the best internet for your household.
Locating local internet providers
Internet speed basics When comparing broadband plans and evaluating internet speeds, a few terms pop up frequently. Before you start shopping, here's what you'll want to be familiar with.
Mbps Mbps, or megabits per second, is used to measure bandwidth (the maximum amount of data that can be transferred over an internet connection in a specific amount of time), upload speed and download speed (until you get to gigabit territory). It measures how fast your internet connection is. A higher Mbps means that a larger amount of data is being transferred each second.
Locating local internet providers
Download versus upload speeds When shopping for internet plans, you'll need to be aware of two speeds: download and upload speeds. Download speed measures the volume of data coming in (streaming, browsing), while the upload speed is the data going out (video calls, uploading large files).  "Creators that upload a lot of content and files should pay particular attention to upload speed, which is often overlooked, but has become increasingly important," Kehoe told us.  Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source on Chrome.When shopping for plans for your family, be sure to check each plan's upload speed, as the download speed is most heavily advertised. The 500Mbps that you're looking at may actually have a much lower upload speed. According to Ookla, the median US household receives 285Mbps download, but just 48Mbps upload speeds. You may need to check the broadband nutrition label to find the upload speed. Although plans with symmetrical upload and download speeds are becoming more popular, Kehoe advises that families with multiple concurrent video calls, frequent cloud backups or creators in the house choose symmetrical or at least high-upload speed plans. But he notes that families that primarily use the internet for streaming and browsing may find asymmetrical plans acceptable, as the provided upload is at least 20 to 35Mbps.
Userba011d64_201/Getty Images Latency (ping) Latency, or ping, measures the connection's responsiveness. The lower the latency, the faster the response time.  It's an often-overlooked metric when shopping for internet but it makes a huge difference for real-time applications like online games or Zoom meetings. If you have a gamer in the family, a college student taking online courses or someone working from home, you'll want a plan with a low latency rate. Under 20 milliseconds is considered an excellent ping rate for serious gamers, live streamers or those who want to video conference in high definition. If you're a more casual gamer or just need to sign on to a basic Zoom meeting now and then, latency under 40ms should provide a smooth experience with minimal lag.
Bandwidth  Bandwidth is the maximum amount of data that can be transferred between points in a specified time period. It's typically measured in megabits per second, or Mbps.  Bandwidth is often confused with internet speed, but the two differ slightly. Bandwidth refers to how quickly data is transferred, while download speed measures how fast that data is received and downloaded. Both make a difference when downloading large files or streaming HD content.
Types of users Each individual in your household has internet consumption habits that will impact how much internet your family needs. Here are the most common user profiles. The power user Gamers or remote workers who need high upload and download speeds with low latency will require extra speed. For a smooth gaming experience and an internet plan with low latency, gamers will need at least 25Mbps of download and upload speed. Meanwhile, remote workers hopping on Zoom or Microsoft Teams for daily meetings will need a dedicated 2Mbps to 4Mbps in each direction to support real-time conversations.
The streamer If you have a sports fan or film enthusiast in your household, chances are that they spend plenty of time in front of the TV streaming content. Most smart TVs provide HD or 4K picture quality these days, which can require faster speeds and higher bandwidth to maintain a clear picture.
Tunvarat Pruksachat/Getty ImagesIf you're streaming shows, movies or sports, here are the average Mbps required, depending on the quality you prefer to stream in: Standard definition: 3 to 5MbpsHigh definition: 5 to 8Mbps4K: 25Mbps or moreKeep in mind that these numbers are for one device. If you have multiple TVs throughout your home, each stream will consume bandwidth and you may need faster internet speeds. For example, two people watching 4K movies simultaneously will need at least 50Mbps.
The casual user Some family members may keep it simple and use the internet primarily for email, social media and web browsing. This may require only 1 to 2Mbps per person. But keep in mind that it'll be a bit higher if they're watching HD live streams or primarily browsing video content (such as on TikTok or Instagram Reels). In this case, the use may be closer to 5 to 8Mbps.
The multidevice home Your phones, tablets and computers aren't the only devices using bandwidth. Most households have at least a few smart home devices. The term Internet of Things refers to the network of devices in your home that connect to the internet and share data.  Whether it's an Echo Dot speaker in your kid's room, a robot vacuum to simplify cleaning or some smart lights to brighten up your home, these IoT devices require Wi-Fi connectivity and can have a cumulative effect on your bandwidth. "Most IoT devices use little bandwidth but can clog airtime and create interference," explains Kehoe. In addition to choosing the right internet plan to support all the simultaneous device activity in your home, he recommends that families use a modern router supporting Wi-Fi 6, Wi-Fi 6E or Wi-Fi 7.
MoMo Productions/Getty Images Most common home internet plan types Each provider's plan offerings differ, but you'll generally see plans in the following ranges. The 50Mbps-100Mbps plan is the baseline for a small family with moderate use. Plans in this range are typically selected as a budget-friendly option for those who primarily browse the web or watch videos on social media. The 200Mbps-500Mbps plan: This is the "sweet spot" for most active families with multiple users. It's fast enough to support high-bandwidth activities, like 4K streaming or HD video conferencing. Kehoe said that, "most larger households do well at 300Mbps–500Mbps down with 20Mbps–50Mbps up, scaling higher for heavy downloads."The Gig plan (1,000Mbps): Gig plans are becoming more popular, with many top internet service providers offering 1,000Mbps speeds for about $70 to $90. However, not all households require these extreme speeds. Paying for gig-level plans is typically only necessary if you have a large household with multiple power users, such as those engaging in competitive gaming, making simultaneous video calls or uploading large files frequently. How to choose a plan based on your family's needs Unsure which home internet plan is right for you? Try this simple, practical method to calculate the internet speed you need. Identify peak use hours: Determine your family's daily routines and what timeframes everyone will be online simultaneously.List all connected devices: This may include phones, laptops, smart TVs, gaming consoles, smart home devices and anything else connected to the internet. Estimate simultaneous activity: Decide what each person will likely be doing while you're all online simultaneously (e.g., one person streaming a TV show, another video conferencing, a third gaming, etc.).Add up the requirements: Tally up the estimated usage for each activity to get your minimum plan speed. Here are some examples.A family of fourDad (4K streaming): 25MbpsMom (HD video call): 4MbpsSon (online gaming): 20MbpsDaughter (browsing): 2MbpsTotal: 51MbpsA family of fiveMom (checking email): 2MbpsDad (online gaming): 20MbpsDaughter No. 1 (4K streaming): 25MbpsDaughter No. 2 (scrolling on social media): 5MbpsSon (4K streaming): 25MbpsTotal: 77Mbps It's best to give yourself a buffer and round up to handle use spikes and future growth. Plus, advertised speeds aren't always the exact speed you'll get daily. The advertised speeds describe the speed that you'll get through a wired Ethernet connection, but most of us connect our devices over Wi-Fi these days. On average, you lose about half the speed when connected to Wi-Fi, so look for a plan offering about double your minimum plan speed. In the first scenario, a plan of 100Mbps or more would be best for the family of four to ensure that everyone gets consistent broadband performance.
Too long; didn't read Choosing the right internet plan for your home is a strategic decision that can significantly impact your family's day-to-day activities. As technology evolves, so will your family's internet needs. The needs of individual household members can also change, with kids often spending more time online on schoolwork or video games as they age, or adult family members shifting to hybrid or remote work arrangements. When evaluating broadband plans, you should look for one that meets your current needs and anticipates tomorrow's demands.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.