Best Amazon Prime Day tablet deals 2025: My favorite sales ahead of October | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Tablets
Best Amazon Prime Day tablet deals 2025: My favorite sales ahead of October
We found the best early tablet deals ahead of Amazon's October Prime Day sale, including discounts on the Apple iPad and Samsung Galaxy Tab.
Written by
Allison Murray, Senior EditorSenior Editor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 7:02 a.m. PT
Apple iPad (11th-gen) | $299 (save $50)
Apple iPad (11th-gen)
$299 (save $50)
View now View at Amazon OnePlus Pad 3 | $606 (save $94)
OnePlus Pad 3
$606 (save $94)
View now View at Amazon Samsung Galaxy Tab S11 | $800 (save $60)
Samsung Galaxy Tab S11
$800 (save $60)
View now View at Amazon Google Pixel Tablet | $343 (save $56)
Google Pixel Tablet
$343 (save $56)
View now View at Amazon Apple iPad Pro 13-inch M4 | $1,196 (save $103)
Apple iPad Pro 13-inch M4
$1,196 (save $103)
View now View at Amazon
Amazon's biannual Prime Day sale is a great time to buy tech devices like tablets at major discounts. Whether from Apple, Samsung, or Amazonitself, tablets are always a big-ticket item that you'll find on major sale during the event. If you know where to look, you can find some excellent deals on tablets of all shapes and sizes, different specifications, and generations.Also: The best tablets we've tested this yearEven though October Prime Day doesn't officially start until next month (Oct. 7-8), you can already find discounts on all kinds of tech. We've rounded up the best tablet deals on Amazon so you can start saving early.Get more in-depth ZDNET tech coverage: Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.Find Prime Day dealsBest tablet deals for Prime Day 2025
Apple iPad (11th-gen) $299 (save $50)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $299 Original price: $349Apple's tried-and-true tablet, the base model iPad, is arguably the best value in the company's tablet lineup thanks to its versatility and compatibility. Plus, Apple updated this tablet earlier this year to include double the base storage as last year's model, more RAM, and an upgraded processor in the A16 Bionic chip.Review: iPad 2025 (11th-Gen)
Show more
View now at Amazon
OnePlus Pad 3 $606 (save $94)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $606Original price: $700The new OnePlus Pad 3 is a ZDNET Editor's Choice pick, and for good reason. The new model provides a smooth user experience thanks to the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Elite processor, which can handle more demanding AI tasks. This experience is further improved by its large 13.2-inch display, which ramps up to 144Hz. Review: OnePlus Pad 3
Show more
View now at Amazon
Samsung Galaxy Tab S11 $800 (save $60)
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNET
Current price: $800Original price: $860Samsung's newest tablet features the MediaTek Dimensity 9400+ processor, AMOLED displays with a refresh rate up to 120Hz, and RAM starting at 12GB.Review: Samsung Galaxy Tab 11 SeriesPlus, the S Pen got an upgrade with a cone-shaped tip that makes it easier to create shading and angled strokes in a way that feels more natural on a user's hand.
Show more
View now at Amazon
Google Pixel Tablet $343 (save $56)
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
Current price: $343Original price: $399If you're a Google smart home person, this is the tablet for you, since it comes with a Charging Speaker Dock that doubles as a smart display. It's also a great tablet for those looking for a long-lasting battery life. When it's not in use and is on the dock, it's constantly charged and ready for use.  Review: Google Pixel Tablet
Show more
View now at Amazon
Apple iPad Pro 13-inch M4 $1,196 (save $103)
Kerry Wan/ZDNET
Current price: $1,196Original price: $1,299Apple's most recent iPad Pro lineup is by far the most capable and impressive iPad lineup we've seen. It makes replacing your laptop with a tablet an easy decision. The M4 chip consists of a new 10-core GPU, next-generation machine learning accelerators to handle a diverse range of tasks, and ProMotion technology, enabling variable screen refresh rates ranging from 10 to 120Hz.Review: Apple iPad Pro (seventh-generation)
Show more
View now at Amazon
More October Prime Day tablet deals Apple iPad Air (seventh-gen): $549 (save $150): This new iPad Air features a speedy M3 processor resulting in better app performance, multitasking, and rendering speeds. Samsung Galaxy Tab A9+: $159 (save $61): This budget tablet has a large, 11-inch display that great for streaming movies and shows, and also includes Dolby Atmos audio. Microsoft Surface Pro: $1,000 (save $200): The hardware in the Microsoft Surface Pro delivers solid performance, allowing the device to handle multiple apps and tasks without noticeable slowdowns.Samsung Galaxy Tab S10+: $869 (save $131): This tablet features a screen 2.2 inches smaller than the S10 Ultra, but both models have the same Dynamic AMOLED display and refresh rate. Huion Kamvas Pro 13: $359 (save $40): This drawing tablet has four user-defined and customizable express keys and a touch bar to control canvas zooming, brush adjusting, and page scrolling.FAQs
When is Amazon's October Prime Day? Amazon's October Prime Day is a two-day sales event for Prime members. This year, sales are live from Tuesday, Oct. 7, through the end of Wednesday, Oct. 8.Is October Prime Day a good time to buy a tablet? Prime Day is a great time to look for deals on tablets that wouldn't normally be on sale such as iPads or Amazon-branded devices like the Kindle. You'll also get another opportunity for big sales during Black Friday.How did we choose these October Prime Day deals?ZDNET only recommends the devices we can stand behind. When we say you're getting a good deal, we want to ensure your hard-earned money goes towards an excellent value. To choose the top deals, we comb through the best sales, make thorough price comparisons with historical data, and combine our personal experience to determine which ones are worth buying.What are the best early Prime Day deals?ZDNET's experts have been searching through early Prime Day and other sales to find the best discounts by category. These are the best deals live now:Best Prime Day dealsBest Prime Day deals under $100Best Prime Day deals under $25Best Prime Day Apple dealsBest Prime Day Samsung dealsBest Prime Day laptop dealsBest Prime Day TV dealsBest Prime Day smartwatch and fitness trackers dealsBest Prime Day phone dealsBest Prime Day tablet dealsBest Prime Day PC gaming dealsBest Prime Day headphones dealsBest Prime Day Kindle dealsBest Prime Day Amazon Echo device dealsBest Prime Day EcoFlow dealsBest Prime Day Anker dealsAnd the best deals from other retailers:Best Buy dealsWalmart dealsSam's Club dealsCostco dealsTarget deals
Show more
Our top Prime Day deals
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
October Prime Day: Everything to know
Best early October Prime Day deals
Top early Prime Day laptop deals
Best Apple deals ahead of Prime Day
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Best early Amazon Prime Day deals 2025: We're tracking 35+ of our favorite discounts before October
Top Best Buy deals before Prime Day 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
The best Amazon deals right now: September 2025
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use