Ex-FBI Director James Comey indicted on criminal charges stemming from 2020 testimony : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Ex-FBI Director James Comey indicted on criminal charges stemming from 2020 testimony Comey faces one count of making false statements and one count of obstruction of justice in connection.
Law
Ex-FBI Director James Comey indicted on criminal charges stemming from 2020 testimony
September 25, 20257:09 PM ET
Heard on
All Things Considered
Carrie Johnson
FBI Director James Comey indicted on criminal charges stemming from 2020 testimony
Listen
·
4:00
4:00
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5552690/nx-s1-9467924" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey leaves the Rayburn House Office Building after testifying to two House committees on Dec. 7, 2018, in Washington, D.C.
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images
The Justice Department has leveled charges against former FBI Director James Comey, after President Trump demanded prosecutors speed up their pace in an investigation targeting one of his most prominent critics. Comey faces one count of making false statements and one count of obstruction of justice in connection with his testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee nearly five years ago. The move comes days after the top federal prosecutor in Northern Virginia cast doubt on the evidence, only to be forced out by the president and replaced with one of Trump's former defense attorneys.
Sponsor Message
Law
Unease grows at the Justice Department as Trump's threats get even more blunt
"No one is above the law.," Attorney General Pam Bondi said in a post on X. "Today's indictment reflects this Department of Justice's commitment to holding those who abuse positions of power accountable for misleading the American people." Trump has long railed against Comey, blaming the former FBI leader for the appointment of a special prosecutor who probed contacts between Russia and Trump's 2016 campaign through most of the president's first term in office.
Politics
James Comey is under investigation for his '8647' Instagram post. What does it mean?
The charges against Comey mark the latest escalation in a years-long war of words between Trump and Comey, who famously likened the president to a mob boss. This year the Secret Service interrogated the former FBI director after he posted a photo of seashells in the shape of the numbers "86 47." Comey later removed the post, saying he thought it was a restaurant-themed joke about removing Trump, the 47th president. But Trump's son and cabinet members interpreted the message as an assassination threat. "Eighty-six" is a slang term that means "get rid of," and Trump is the 47th (and 45th) president of the United States.
Comey once served as second in command at the Justice Department, under President George W. Bush. But he started his career as a federal prosecutor, working to some acclaim in the same office in Virginia that later moved to seek his indictment.
Sponsor Message
DOJ fired his daughter, Maurene Comey, from a prominent job as an assistant U.S. attorney in Manhattan earlier this year, only hours after she said she had been asked to lead an important public corruption case.
This month, Maurene Comey sued current Justice Department leaders, arguing she was fired without cause and in violation of the Constitution and federal statutes. Her lawsuit said she thought she was dismissed because of "her father's protected speech, or because of her perceived political affiliation and beliefs, or both."
James Comey
trump administration
Justice Department
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor