Overview  |  Transfer Appliance  |  Google Cloud
Skip to main content
Documentation
Technology areas
close
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Generative AI
Industry solutions
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Cross-product tools
close
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Google Cloud SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Infrastructure as code
Migration
Related sites
close
Google Cloud Home
Free Trial and Free Tier
Architecture Center
Blog
Contact Sales
Google Cloud Developer Center
Google Developer Center
Google Cloud Marketplace
Google Cloud Marketplace Documentation
Google Cloud Skills Boost
Google Cloud Solution Center
Google Cloud Support
Google Cloud Tech Youtube Channel
/
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어
Console
Sign in
Transfer Appliance
Guides
Support
Resources
Contact Us
Start free
Documentation
Guides
Support
Resources
Technology areas
More
Cross-product tools
More
Related sites
More
Console
Contact Us
Start free
Product overview
Order Transfer Appliance
Specifications
High-level overview
Update appliance details
Configure IP network ports
Receive your appliance
Enable/disable online transfer
Update appliance software
Transfer data
Monitor your appliance
MetricsLogging
Shut down or suspend
Return your appliance
Access your data in Cloud Storage
Clean up permissions and access
Troubleshooting
Data upload permissionsOnline modeCheck for configuration issues
Security and encryption
Known limitations
Export your data from Cloud Storage
Overview
Prepare permissions and access
OverviewOption 1: Cloud setup applicationOption 2: Manual configuration
AI and ML
Application development
Application hosting
Compute
Data analytics and pipelines
Databases
Distributed, hybrid, and multicloud
Generative AI
Industry solutions
Networking
Observability and monitoring
Security
Storage
Access and resources management
Costs and usage management
Google Cloud SDK, languages, frameworks, and tools
Infrastructure as code
Migration
Google Cloud Home
Free Trial and Free Tier
Architecture Center
Blog
Contact Sales
Google Cloud Developer Center
Google Developer Center
Google Cloud Marketplace
Google Cloud Marketplace Documentation
Google Cloud Skills Boost
Google Cloud Solution Center
Google Cloud Support
Google Cloud Tech Youtube Channel
Home
Documentation
Transfer Appliance
Guides
Send feedback
Overview
Stay organized with collections
Save and categorize content based on your preferences.
Transfer Appliance is a high-capacity storage device that enables you
to transfer and securely ship your data to a Google upload facility, where we
upload your data to Cloud Storage. For Transfer Appliance
capacities and requirements, refer to the
Specifications page.
How it works
Request an appliance: We'll work with you to select the
appropriate appliance for your requirements.
Upload your data: Linux and Apple macOS systems mount the NFS
share exposed by the appliance. Windows systems use SCP or SSH to upload
data to the appliance.
Ship the appliance back: Complete the transfer and seal the
appliance.
Google uploads the data: We upload the data to your
Cloud Storage bucket, then wipe the appliance when we're done.
Transfer is complete! You can now access your data in
Google Cloud.
Security features
Your data and network security is important. Transfer Appliance helps
ensure that you're connecting a trusted device to your equipment and
network, and secures your data from end to end so that it is read by people
you trust.
To ensure Transfer Appliance is trusted and safe to connect to your
devices, Transfer Appliance offers the following features:
Tamper resistant: Bad actors cannot easily open
Transfer Appliance's physical case. We also apply
tamper-evident tags to the shipping case, so that you can visually inspect
each appliance's integrity prior to opening the package.
Ruggedized: Transfer Appliance's shipping container is
ruggedized, ensuring your data arrives safely.
Trusted Platform Module (TPM) chip: We validate the TPM's Platform
Configuration Registers to ensure that the immutable root filesystem and
software components haven't been tampered with.
Hardware attestation: We use a remote attestation process to validate
the appliance before you can connect it to your device and copy data to it.
If anything is amiss, we work with you to quickly send you a new appliance.
To ensure your data is safe during and after transit,
Transfer Appliance uses the following features to protect you:
AES 256 encryption: Your data is encrypted with industry-standard
encryption to keep it safe.
Customer-managed encryption keys: We use encryption keys that you manage
using Cloud Key Management Service (Cloud KMS), enabling you to control and secure
your data prior to shipping an appliance back to us.
NIST 800-88 compliant data erasure: We securely erase your data from
Transfer Appliance after uploading your data to
Cloud Storage. You can request a wipe certificate to verify that we've
wiped your data.
For more information, refer to
Security and encryption.
Performance
To enable you move data quickly and efficiently,
Transfer Appliance has the following performance features:
All SSD drives: Increased reliability over hard disk drives to ensure
your transfer is smooth.
Multiple network connectivity options: Quickly move data from your
devices to Transfer Appliance, using either a 10Gbps RJ45 interface
or a 40Gbps QSFP+ interface.
Scalability with multiple appliances: You can scale your transfers by
ordering multiple appliance to increase your transfer speed.
Globally distributed processing: Reduced shipping times to and from
Google ensures your data transfer to Cloud Storage is quick.
Minimal software: For Linux and Apple macOS systems, copy directly
to Transfer Appliance by mounting the exposed NFS share on
the appliance to your workstation, using common software already installed
on the system. For Microsoft Windows systems, copy directly to
Transfer Appliance from your workstation using SCP.
Online capabilities
Enabling online mode allows you to perform online transfers by streaming data
directly to your Cloud Storage bucket after copying it to your appliance.
Online transfers offer the following benefits:
Quickly transfer data to Cloud Storage with low latency: Online
transfers are an accelerated method of transferring your data to
Cloud Storage, omitting the need to wait for your appliance to be shipped
back to Google before the data is copied to your destination bucket.
Connect to multiple appliances: Online mode allows parallel connectivity
to multiple appliances.
Cost-effective: Online capability is offered as a low-cost, fully-managed
method for transferring your data.
Secure connection: Your data is encrypted during online transfers,
ensuring end-to-end security. After the transfer is complete, your data is
removed from the appliance.
Easy to enable or disable: You can toggle between online and offline mode
using simple commands. For more information on how to enable or disable online
mode, refer to the
Online/offline transfer page.
Is Transfer Appliance suitable for me?
Transfer Appliance is a good fit for your data transfer needs if:
You are an existing Google Cloud customer.
Your data resides in locations that Transfer Appliance is
available.
It would take more than one week to upload your data over the network.
Other transfer options
Other Google Cloud transfer options include:
Storage Transfer Service to move data to a
Cloud Storage bucket from other cloud storage providers or from your
on-premises storage.
BigQuery Data Transfer Service to move data from software as a
service (SaaS) applications to BigQuery.
Transfer service for on-premises data to move data from your
on-premises machines to Cloud Storage.
Where is Transfer Appliance available?
Transfer Appliance is available in the following locations:
Location
TA7
TA40(Rackable)
TA300(Rackable)
TA40(Freestanding)
TA300(Freestanding)
United States
European Union member states
United Kingdom
Singapore
Japan
Canada
Australia
India
For a complete list of countries where Transfer Appliance is available, refer to the Order Appliance page on the Google Cloud console. If you don't find your country listed, reach out to Support at data-support@google.com.
Data transfer speeds
With a typical network bandwidth of 100 Mbps, 300 terabytes of data takes about
9 months to upload. However, with Transfer Appliance, you can
receive the appliance and capture 300 terabytes of data in under 25 days. Your
data can be accessed in Cloud Storage within another 25 days, all without
consuming any outbound network bandwidth.
Example use cases
Data collection
If you need to transfer data from researchers, vendors, or other sites to
Google Cloud, Transfer Appliance can move that data for you. Once
transferred to Cloud Storage or BigQuery,
your data is accessible via our Dataflow processing service for machine
learning projects. Google Cloud Machine Learning Engine is a managed service
that enables you to easily build machine learning models, that work on any type
of data, of any size.
Data replication
Transfer Appliance can assist you in taking advantage of hybrid
architectures, supporting current operations with existing on-premises
infrastructure while experimenting with the cloud. By transferring a copy of
your data to Google Cloud, you can decommission duplicate datasets, test cloud
infrastructure, and expose your data to machine learning and analysis.
Data migration
Offline data transfer is suited for moving large amounts of existing backup
images and archives to Cloud Storage, which can be stored in ultra low-cost,
highly-durable, and highly available storage classes such as
Archive Storage. For structured and
unstructured data sets, whether they are small and frequently accessed or huge
and rarely referenced, Google offers solutions like Cloud Storage,
BigQuery, and Dataproc to store and analyze that data.
Data handling for the European Union
For customers in the EU, appliances are shipped from Belgium. When
data capture is complete, you ship the appliance to Belgium for data upload.
Your data is then uploaded to a Cloud Storage location in a region
that you have specified. If you choose a destination region within the EU, your
data never leaves the boundaries of the European Union during any part of the
data transfer process.
What's next?
Request Transfer Appliance.
Learn more about Transfer Appliance pricing.
Review the procedure for using Transfer Appliance.
Send feedback
Except as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Last updated 2025-09-16 UTC.
Why Google
Choosing Google Cloud
Trust and security
Modern Infrastructure Cloud
Multicloud
Global infrastructure
Customers and case studies
Analyst reports
Whitepapers
Products and pricing
See all products
See all solutions
Google Cloud for Startups
Google Cloud Marketplace
Google Cloud pricing
Contact sales
Support
Community forums
Support
Release Notes
System status
Resources
GitHub
Getting Started with Google Cloud
Google Cloud documentation
Code samples
Cloud Architecture Center
Training and Certification
Developer Center
Engage
Blog
Events
X (Twitter)
Google Cloud on YouTube
Google Cloud Tech on YouTube
Become a Partner
Google Cloud Affiliate Program
Press Corner
About Google
Privacy
Site terms
Google Cloud terms
Manage cookies
Our third decade of climate action: join us
Sign up for the Google Cloud newsletter
Subscribe
English
Deutsch
Español
Español – América Latina
Français
Indonesia
Italiano
Português
Português – Brasil
中文 – 简体
中文 – 繁體
日本語
한국어