Daily briefing: AI model can predict your risk of diseases years before you might get them
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
nature briefing
article
NATURE BRIEFING
18 September 2025
Daily briefing: AI model can predict your risk of diseases years before you might get them
The first major LLM to undergo peer-review, the rise of ‘griefbots’ and a model that can make disease predictions from a person’s health records are among the latest in AI news. Plus, the World Health Organization has downgraded the international emergency status of mpox.
By
Jacob Smith
Jacob Smith
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Sign up for Nature Briefing
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Hello Nature readers, would you like to get this Briefing in your inbox free every day? Sign up here.Mpox is one of the few diseases that have been declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern by the World Health Organization. (Arlette Bashizi/Bloomberg via Getty)Mpox no longer an emergency, says WHOEarlier this month, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that the spread of mpox in Africa is no longer an international health emergency. The disease was declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern — the WHO’s highest level of alarm — in 2024, but no longer warrants such status after a sustained decline in cases, says WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. The Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention have decided to maintain the disease’s status as a Public Health Emergency of Continental Security as countries such as Liberia and Ghana have emerged as virus hotspots.Science | 5 min readOusted CDC chief says integrity under threat“I was fired for holding the line on scientific integrity,” said Susan Monarez, ex-director of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), when testifying yesterday before the Senate. Monarez said that US health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr, a vaccine sceptic, told her that she would lose her job if she did not accept the recommendations of his hand-picked panel of advisers regarding childhood shots. Kennedy dismissed her just 29 days after she was confirmed as the head of the CDC. Debra Houry, who resigned as the agency’s chief medical officer when Monarez was fired, testified that Kennedy did not respond to her efforts to brief him on public-health matters and to correct false statements he’d been making in public.Nature | 6 min readThe AI reportNewsAI model predicts the risk of future diseaseA new artificial intelligence (AI) tool can forecast a person’s risk of developing more than 1,000 diseases. The model, called Delphi-2M, uses a person’s health records and lifestyle factors to estimate their likelihood of developing diseases such as cancer and immune conditions up to 20 years ahead of time. For many diseases, Delphi-2M’s predictions matched or exceeded the accuracy of those of current models that estimate the risk of developing a single illness. “It worked astonishingly well,” says data scientist and study co-author Moritz Gerstung.Nature | 5 min readReference: Nature paperNewsSecrets of DeepSeek revealedDeepSeek-R1, a cheap and powerful artificial intelligence (AI) ‘reasoning’ model that sent the US stock market spiralling after it was released by a Chinese firm in January, cost just US$300,000 to train. That’s one of the revelations in a new paper from the DeepSeek team — making R1 the first major LLM to undergo the peer-review process.Nature | 5 min readReference: Nature paperThe team behind DeepSeek-R1 showed that a large language model can be taught to ‘reason’ without ever seeing an example of human reasoning. To do so, they used a technique called reinforcement learning, in which the model was rewarded for the correct answer to mathematical questions, and penalized for incorrect answers. The model soon learnt that reasoning improved the likelihood of it finding the correct answer, and it developed an ability to self-reflect and correct itself before outputting a response. (Nature News & Views | 7 min read)NewsCan chatbots induce psychosis?A recent preprint reported that at least 17 people have developed psychosis — which renders them unable to distinguish between what is and is not reality — after interacting with generative AI chatbots. Whether chatbot interactions can trigger psychosis is unclear, says psychiatrist Søren Østergaard, but people who already experience symptoms such as delusions or paranoia might be particularly susceptible. Some AI companies have added safeguards into their models to steer interactions away from sensitive or distressing topics, or those that aren’t grounded in reality.Nature | 6 min readReference: PsyArXiv preprint (not peer reviewed)FeatureHello from the digital afterlifeBy training a large language model (LLM) on a person’s text messages and voice recordings, several software firms are offering access to ‘griefbots’ — digital recreations of a person that allow their relatives to communicate ‘with them’ after their death. These AI models can help people navigate their grief, proponents say. Others think the subscription-based services are exploitative, and argue that they could complicate the normal grieving process. As yet, there’s little evidence to back up either viewpoint, which leaves the decision of whether to use griefbots in the hands of individual mourners.Nature | 12 min readThis article is part of Nature Outlook: Robotics and artificial intelligence, an editorially independent supplement produced with financial support from FII Institute.To get the latest news on artificial intelligence direct to your inbox every fortnight, sign up to Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course.Features & opinionIn pursuit of climate dataTo build a model of something as complex as Earth’s climate requires data, and a whole lot of it. Not only that, but such data must represent every corner of the planet — from the heart of centuries-old glaciers to the 300 metres above the canopy of the Amazon rainforest. In a photo essay, Quanta showcases the daring, dedication and determination of climate scientists, and the volunteers that bolster their work, to ensure that Earth’s climate models are as complete as possible.Quanta | Leisurely scrollQuote of the day“We just cannot underestimate how empowering people with information can literally change the course of their life.”Metascientist Kelly Cobey champions open-science practices, both so people with medical conditions can be involved in the decision-making surrounding their care, and to uphold research integrity. (Nature | 8 min read)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03058-9Today I’m thrilled to learn that one of my favourite sci-fi characters has been immortalized in taxonomy. Researchers who described a new species of coral couldn’t help but notice that its hair-like strands bear striking resemblance to the fur of a certain Wookiee of Star Wars fame. In that spirit, they decided to christen the species Iridogorgia chewbacca.The coral’s home on the ocean floor is a slight departure from the forests of the Wookiee’s home planet of Kashyyyk, but I’m sure Chewie would feel honoured nonetheless.If there are any other sci-fi inspired scientific names I should be aware of, please let me know, along with any feedback on this newsletter, at briefing@nature.com.Thanks for reading,Jacob Smith, associate editor, Nature BriefingWith contributions by Flora Graham• Nature Briefing: Careers — insights, advice and award-winning journalism to help you optimize your working life• Nature Briefing: Microbiology — the most abundant living entities on our planet — microorganisms — and the role they play in health, the environment and food systems• Nature Briefing: Anthropocene — climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and geoengineering• Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course• Nature Briefing: Cancer — a weekly newsletter written with cancer researchers in mind• Nature Briefing: Translational Research — covers biotechnology, drug discovery and pharma
Related Articles
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Jobs
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Life Science and Technology)
The School of Life Science and Technology (SLST) invites applications for numerous tenure-track and tenured positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Daily briefing: The most- and least-improved countries for chronic disease
Daily briefing: Heatwaves can be directly linked to emissions from specific companies
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited