Unlock the power of Proxmox hookscripts for VM automation
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
1
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Proxmox hookscripts are the best automation feature you're not using
By
Rich Edmonds
Published 4 days ago
Richard is the PC Hardware Lead at XDA and has been covering the technology industry for almost two decades. He's been building PCs since young, and when not creating content, you can often find him inside a chassis somewhere.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
1
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Proxmox is an incredible tool for the home lab, enabling anyone to launch a feature-rich hypervisor for deploying various virtual machines (VMs) and Linux containers (LXCs) within isolated environments. What you may not know about are Proxmox hookscripts. Proxmox allows the creation of hookscripts to automate tasks during the lifecycle of a VM or LXC, effectively allowing you to automate just about anything when a virtualized environment changes state. These hookscripts can be defined and stored within a specific directory and referenced in config files for Proxmox to load.
Harnassing the power of hookscripts
Automating stuff you didn't know you needed
Proxmox hookscripts are handy for those of us who prefer not to continue running repetitive tasks within virtualized environments, especially those that can be easily automated. Whether it's to handle backup transfers or check if a VM or container has successfully started, this level of automation is especially valuable when managing environments with hundreds of VMs or containers, where manual oversight is impractical and at the rate of which we're self-hosting more apps from home, this could prove invaluable. Hookscripts are incredibly flexible and versatile and can be configured to do everything from simple logging to complex workflows involving external APIs. Proxmox hookscripts can be run before or after a VM or LXC starts/stops, for migrations, reboots, and when snapshots are taken. It's fairly versatile and can allow for the creation of some unique and useful scripts that automatically execute without human input. For instance, you could easily log virtual machine start and stop events with a quick and dirty hookscript. Alerts can be sent out should a VM or LXC stop, external tools can be integrated, and automated backup preperations can be handled before creating a snapshot. Here's a list of all the available hook points:
pre-start
Runs before the VM/LXC starts.
post-start
Runs after the VM/LXC has started.
pre-stop
Runs before the VM/LXC is stopped.
post-stop
Runs after the VM/LXC has been stopped.
pre-migrate
Runs before a live migration begins.
post-migrate
Runs after a live migration completes.
pre-reboot
Runs before a VM/LXC is rebooted.
post-reboot
Runs after a VM/LXC has been rebooted.
pre-snapshot
Runs before taking a snapshot of the VM/container.
post-snapshot
Runs after a snapshot has been taken.
Using these hook points, it's possible to compress and encrypt a disk prior to a snapshot being taken, making better use of your backup storage solution. After the backup has completed, a hookscript could automatically transfer the snapshot across. You could have alerts sent out depending on system resource usage and even scan a VM filesystem to check for vulnerabilities before booting up. These are simple yet effective uses of hookscripts to help you get more done without wasting time on mundane tasks.
How to set up a Proxmox hookscript
It's easier than you think
To help provide a quick insight into how Proxmox hookscripts can work, I'm going to set up a simple script on my Proxmox server that writes a small message to a log file when a virtual machine or Linux container is starting up. Whenever the virtual environment starts up through Proxmox, this log file will have the same message written. It's an easy script with very basic functionality, but it can serve as a means to understand how easy this is to accomplish. You'll have more capable hookscripts up and running in no time.
Log in to the Proxmox web GUI.
Click Shell within your Proxmox node.
Credit:
Create the hookscripts directory, where we'll store all our scripts: mkdir /var/lib/vz/snippets
Create a script file within the Proxmox hookscript directory (example-hookscript.pl): nano /var/lib/vz/snippets/example-hookscript.pl
Enter the following code to write a message to a log file: #!/usr/bin/perluse strict;use warnings;my $vmid = $ARGV[0]; # Use $ARGV[0] to get the VM/LXC ID from the hookopen(my $log, '>>', '/var/log/startup-hook.log') or die "Could not open log file: $!";print $log "$vmid is starting\n";close($log);
Credit:
Save the file.
Create the log file, so it can be written to: touch /var/log/startup-hook.log
Make the script executable:
chmod +x /var/lib/vz/snippets/example-hookscript.pl
Test the script (replace ID with your VM/LXC): /var/lib/vz/snippets/example-hookscript.pl ID
Credit:
Configure the VM or LXC to run the script (replace ID with your VM/LXC):
Start the VM or LXC.
You'll now be able to fire up the log file (nano /var/log/startup-hook.log) to see the message we added to the hookscript be present. Remember that hookscripts run in the order they’re defined in the VM or LXC configuration file, so if you have more than one listed within the file, be sure to order them accordingly, depending on which you wish to run first. An example hookscript and further documentation can be found at /usr/share/pve-docs/examples/guest-example-hookscript.pl. I suggest copying this file to your new snippets folder to easily spot how you can use hookscripts with your virtual instances.
Enhancing your Proxmox experience
Proxmox hookscripts are a powerful tool for anyone managing virtualized environments. By automating tasks like logging, backups, and resource management, they can significantly reduce operational overhead and improve reliability. Whether you’re a home lab enthusiast like myself or simply looking at cool new ways to achieve various tasks, taking the time to master hookscripts can result in some handy use cases.
Linux
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Giedrius
Giedrius
Giedrius
#MH826055
Member since 2025-04-28
0
Threads
4
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
not worth the hassle, stay with your hypervisor... some 2 left handed had some misconfigs... angry author..
2025-09-21 15:01:39
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 18, 2025
I use these Obsidian keyboard shortcuts to boost my productivity
Sep 18, 2025
This beloved roguelike with 98% positive reviews is just over $6 on Steam, its lowest price ever
Sep 16, 2025
3 ways I use NotebookLM to be a better writer
Sep 16, 2025
I avoid buying these gaming accessories to protect my consoles, and you should do the same
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
21 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Your next Snapdragon device may help you locate stolen devices right out of the box
4 reasons you need to start using WinGet on Windows
5 reasons my VLANs only separate wired devices from wireless
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.