4 pieces of advice for caregivers from caregivers : Life Kit : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
4 pieces of advice for caregivers from caregivers : Life Kit Two women who took care of their moms as unpaid caregivers share advice about how to approach the job, find support and make time for self-care.
Life Kit
Tools To Help You Get It Together
Health
Money
Parenting
Dear Life Kit
Life Skills
Podcast
Newsletter
Twitter
NPR
LISTEN & FOLLOW
NPR App
Apple Podcasts
Spotify
Amazon Music
iHeart Radio
YouTube Music
RSS link
'Forgive yourself': 4 pieces of advice for caregivers, from caregivers
Updated February 18, 202510:39 AM ET
Originally published February 20, 20233:03 AM ET
By
Keisha "TK" Dutes
,
Sylvie Douglis
'Forgive yourself': 4 pieces of advice for caregivers, from caregivers
Listen
·
18:57
18:57
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/1157494002/1266615327" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Enlarge this image
FG Trade/Getty Images
FG Trade/Getty Images
This story was originally published on Feb. 16, 2023, and has been updated.
"It takes a village to raise a child." That's an African proverb meaning it takes a community to provide a healthy and safe environment for a child to grow.
But what happens when you grow up? Does the village disappear? As adults we don't realize there are a myriad of situations where we need our families and communities to have our backs. An estimated 53 million Americans are acting as unpaid caregivers to loved ones, according to the National Alliance for Caregiving and AARP's Caregiving in the U.S. 2020 report. That means 1 in 5 people you know have had their lives upended to ensure the health and safety of loved ones. This often comes at the expense of their own mental, physical and emotional health.
Sponsor Message
As a former (paid) caregiver myself, I thought it was important to talk to Jacquelyn Revere of momofmymom.com, a website that chronicles the caregiving journey between Revere and her late mother. I also spoke with multidisciplinary artist TreZure Empire, who has been a caregiver to her mother for two decades. We get into how they manage caregiving emotionally, mentally, and what they need the most from their village and from themselves. Here are four pieces of advice for caregivers, from caregivers. 1. Be gentle with yourself. Your life is changing, and you only know what you know. There is no blueprint for caregiving, so be gentle with yourself.
"Forgive yourself because when you're starting out, you will make mistakes. You will get short-tempered," Revere says. "You will build up resilience over time. And so you sitting in a corner completely having a meltdown will happen one year, but in Year 4, you'll be like, oh, just another Tuesday." It's also important to remember to take time to mourn how this changes your life personally. This might look like getting therapy or doing internal work in order to bring your best self to the situation.
"It's very easy to give in to the frustration of caregiving," Empire says. "But it's what I have to do to be the best person I could be — to really check myself, not for her but for me."
Sponsor Message
2. Don't be afraid to ask your loved ones for help. To process all these feelings and tasks, you need to establish a care team — for yourself as well as for the person you are caring for. Figure out how people in your life can help with things like sending money or supplies, or taking time to sit with you. Revere says delegating tasks is especially important. "Whether it's ordering someone to come and tidy up a house, having a meal sent, [or] scheduling some time to just show up and just walk," Revere says. "Something that one of my friends would do is she would just stop by and ... say, 'Hey, let's walk.' And something so simple would just help me to clear my mind." 3. Know your rights and explore your resources. In the midst of all of this, many caregivers still have to work a 9-to-5 job. Communicating with your employer, setting expectations and possibly finding alternative ways to work are key. It's also important to learn about your rights as a caregiver. "Just remember that this is unpaid work, and there aren't a lot of rights for caregivers," Empire says." Like, you can't deny someone for being disabled, but you can totally deny me for my role as a caregiver to someone that's disabled." Look into your workplace's policies and state laws to see if you qualify under the Eligible Leave for Employee Caregiving Time Act (ELECT) to use paid vacation time or sick days to care for loved ones. If not, see if unpaid leave is an option under the Federal Family and Medical Leave Act.
While you're caregiving, the village can also help by "learning about advocacy, learning movements that are happening to get family caregivers paid, [and] the movements to have more social support," says Revere.
Sponsor Message
4. Caring for yourself is just as vital. You also need to take time for yourself and create a system for living. Empire is very clear that "you should not be trying to take care of anybody before yourself." "Your day's got to start for you first," Empire says."Your relationship with your life has to begin first, and you have to construct a system that allows that. And if it can't be first, then it has to be last, but there has to be time that is yours." Everyone is different but finding time for yourself and starting your day with a practice like meditation, stretching, prayer or journaling makes a difference in a balanced life.
Finally, remember you have been brought into caregiving to ensure the wellness of someone you love — and part of wellness is the joy that you and your loved one bring to each other.
Like Revere says, "I think what's most important is making moments, making value of the time that you have."
We want to hear from you: Caregivers, how do you cope with burnout?
Share your best advice about how to care for yourself while caretaking, how to approach the job or find support. Email your response to lifekit@npr.org with your full name and we may feature your story on NPR.org.
The audio portion of this episode was produced by Sylvie Douglas and edited by Meghan Keane. Marielle Segarra is our host. The digital story was edited by Danielle Nett. Our visuals editor is Beck Harlan. We'd love to hear from you. Leave us a voicemail at 202-216-9823, or email us at LifeKit@npr.org. Listen to Life Kit on Apple Podcasts and Spotify, or sign up for our newsletter.
caregivers
Life Kit: Life Skills
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor