Best Smart Thermostats of 2025: Find Out What's Hot - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Energy & UtilitiesHVAC Thermostats
Best Smart Thermostats of 2025: Find Out What's Hot
Lower your energy bills and control your heating from anywhere with this immensely useful thermostat picks from our CNET editors.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Article updated on August 31, 2025 at 3:00 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Smart home integration
Will the thermostat work with your preferred voice assistant and home control app?
Geofencing?
Add-ons and sensors
Do you want wireless sensors that can measure temperatures in a specific location, like rooms that get too cold?
Installation
Do you prefer DIY or professional installation? Does your wiring include a C-wire? Are you willing to do wiring work yourself or prefer to pay for it?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
As the days start cooling down, it's time to think about thermostat changes -- and there's one device that can make your new heating needs much easier to manage while also saving you a surprising amount of cash. Smart thermostats are small but powerful upgrades for your home that can learn your daily patterns, automate energy savings and help you fix cold or hot spots, without a subscription fee.
Our Picks
Best overall smart thermostat Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium
Jump to details
$260 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart thermostat for Alexa integration Amazon Smart Thermostat
Jump to details
$80 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart thermostat design Nest Learning Thermostat (4th gen)
Jump to details
$280 at Google Store
Jump to details
Most user-friendly smart thermostat Sensi Touch 2
Jump to details
$189 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart thermostat for whole-house control Honeywell Home T10 Pro+ Smart Thermostat
Jump to details
$199 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best budget smart thermostat Ecobee Smart Thermostat Essential
Jump to details
$135 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
SMART THERMOSTAT DEALS OF THE WEEK
Emerson Sensi ST55 Wi-Fi Smart Thermostat:  $81 (save $50)
Emerson Sensi Lite Wi-Fi Smart Thermostat (2023 Model):  $66 (save $25)
Meross MTS200 Smart Wi-Fi Thermostat:  $55 (save $46)
Emerson Sensi Touch 2 ST76 Smart Wi-Fi Touchscreen Thermostat:  $189 (save $21)
Honeywell Home T9 Wi-Fi Thermostat With Smart Room Sensor:  $194 (save $16) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Smart Thermostats of 2025: Find Out What's Hot
What is the best thermostat overall?
Best smart thermostats of 2025
Smart thermostats compared
Other smart thermostats we've tested
Factors to consider when choosing a smart thermostat
How we test smart thermostats
Smart thermostat privacy and security
What we've updated
Smart thermostat FAQ
In addition to remote app control, these thermostats make setting schedules speedy and can give you insights on just how efficient your home heating or cooling is. CNET's reviewers have tested the best over the past several years, and here's what we prefer for our own homes.Read more: This Modest Gadget Is the New Superhero of the Energy-Efficient Home
This story is part of
CNET Zero, a series that chronicles the impact of climate change and explores what's being done about the problem.
What is the best thermostat overall?
Ecobee/CNETAfter many hours testing the functions of the latest smart thermostats, our experts recommend the Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium as the top Wi-Fi thermostat that can do everything. This programmable thermostat not only learns your schedule, it also monitors your indoor air quality and lets you adopt Siri or Alexa voice assistant options if you don't have a smart speaker. We've also chosen Amazon's model for an excellent Alexa choice; Nest's latest thermostat for a beautiful, energy-saving powerhouse; an Ecobee model for a budget choice; and more. Take a look at the latest picks and our smart thermostat reviews, below. Best smart thermostats of 2025
Jon Reed/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/4
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium Jon Reed/CNET
Best overall smart thermostat
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium
Pros
Learning and vacation modes for complete control
Reliable air quality monitoring
Built-in speaker for Alexa or Siri
Included remote temperature sensor
Can control other Ecobee products
Cons
Very expensive
Why I like it:One of the selling points of a smart thermostat is that it can save you money, so we can’t say money is no object. But if money is no object, the Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium eclipses the competition. It offers the most advanced features, like a little sensor with a magnetic stand I could put in any room, and the ability to show a four-day forecast on the thermostat itself.The Ecobee model also comes with a separate satellite sensor to target heating or cooling to levels in a specific room. When I asked Ecobee about its latest features, they responded that the thermostat could help save up to 26% on energy bills and mentioned, "One of my favorite recent additions to the Ecobee smart thermostat experience is Home Energy Reports. These interactive reports help you visualize and understand the direct benefit of our temperature optimizations on your home’s energy use."While many smart thermostats can work with voice assistant platforms like Google's Home/Gemini options or Alexa, this Premium model is the only one that offers built-in compatibility (plus a mic and speaker) for Alexa and an option to add on Siri, so you don't need an app or smart speaker to give it commands.Who is this for:People who want a ton of smart features in a single device, including built-in voice assistants, and a satellite sensor for detailed home climate control.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who don't want to pay a lot of money, those who already have a smart speaker they're happy with, people who don't want to learn a lot of new features.  ... Show more
Get it now
$260 at Amazon
$260 at B&H Photo Video
Specs & Configurations
Wireless temperature sensors
Included, can support multiple sensors in different roomsSmart home support
Apple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant/GeminiHVAC C-wired required
Yes, adapter kits available through EcobeeAdditional sensors
Built-in indoor air quality and humidity sensors
Learn more
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Premium review
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best smart thermostat for Alexa integration
Amazon Smart Thermostat
Pros
Built-in Alexa and Echo compatibility
Useful learning features for the price
Affordable at under $100
Explains energy settings to users
Cons
Basic design compared to competitor models
Amazon's data privacy raises more questions than other thermostat brands
Why I like it:The Amazon Smart Thermostat stands out among its peers in the sub-$100 category by having far better technology, including the ability to sense if you’re home and Alexa’s “hunches” to see if a setting will work while saving you energy. It'll save you lots of energy while paying itself off faster, making it an excellent starter model. And if you add an Echo Dot 5, the thermostat can use it as a separate room and air sensor, too.Amazon's model doesn’t have quite the advanced features of a $200 thermostat, and its display is fairly basic, but the savings are very significant, and not everyone wants a fancy touchscreen. Another thing I liked: It shows information about your energy and HVAC usage, explaining what it all means -- a smart thermostat that makes the customer smarter.Note: Read my full guide on smart thermostat privacy here to see how Amazon approaches this issue and why some users may want to take security precautions.Who is this for:People primarily interested in affordability and effective features, and less concerned with a bunch of extra learning features. It also helps if you don't mind Alexa and Amazon gleaning your household data.Who shouldn’t buy it:People who aren't fans of Alexa, users who want more smart and scheduling options, users particularly concerned about their home privacy.  ... Show more
Get it now
$80 at Amazon
$80 at Best Buy
$80 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Wireless temperature sensors
Echo Dot 4/5 can function as a satellite sensorSmart home support
Amazon AlexaHVAC C-wired required
YesAdditional sensors
Presence sensing added with Echo Dot
Learn more
Amazon Smart Thermostat review
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/5
Nest's thermostat is pretty but the real advantage is the savings inside.  Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best smart thermostat design
Nest Learning Thermostat (4th gen)
Pros
Beautiful round display
Easy-to-use Eco Modes and energy reports
Satellite sensor for targeted heating
Compatibility with some Nest products like the Nest Hub Max
No C-wire required for installation
High-quality presence sensing
Cons
Expensive
Shiny display can be a little distracting
Why I like it:The newest version of the Nest Learning Thermostat brings the best high-tech smart technology to an attractive device that works even if your home doesn't have a C-wire. The new model builds on its predecessor's attractive design by adding a sensor that can tell how far you are from the thermostat and change the information on the faceplate accordingly. Mine can even show weather effects like falling snow or the setting sun depending on what's happening outside.Like Ecobee's, this model also comes with an included external room sensor, encouraging you from the start to keep track of the comfort level in more than just one room of your home. The beautiful design especially sparkles when showing outdoor temperatures with associated weather animations. On the more practical side, the Nest reports and easy-to-see Eco Modes make saving money very easy. Who is this for:Users who love a beautiful thermostat and already have Nest devices, but want something that will save them money with easy eco modes.Who shouldn’t buy it:Buyers who want to save on initial costs and aren't especially big fans of the Google Nest ecosystem.  ... Show more
Get it now
$280 at Google Store
$280 at Best Buy
$280 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Wireless temperature sensors
Satellite sensor included, can average temperatures from multiple sensorsSmart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/GeminiHVAC C-wired required
NoAdditional sensors
Tracks outdoor weather
Learn more
Nest Learning Thermostat (4th gen) review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/3
Most user-friendly smart thermostat
Sensi Touch 2
Pros
Simple, clean touchscreen interface
Quick setup
Alexa and Google compatibility
Affordable when on sale
Provides energy, equipment and maintenance reports
Cons
Lacks smart features like built-in presence sensing and learning capabilities
Why I like it:The Sensi Touch 2 is an excellent choice if you interact a lot with the physical thermostat. The app is good, and the thermostat is compatible with Alexa and Google Home, but the display on this one really shines. It’s simple, intuitive and clear, allowing you to easily make changes. Some other thermostats require you to know what the particular icon means, which can add to the learning curve, but this one is straightforward. Plus, the temperature setting is prominently displayed, and you can set a range of temperatures very easily with the tap of a finger.If you find the larger, flashier thermostat displays a bit overwhelming, Sensi's model may be a breath of cool air. While it's a bit more limited than some picks, it still works with Google and Alexa commands and provides alerts and reminders.Who is this for:Users look for a minimalist model with more traditional manual controls that still includes handy smart features like voice assistant support. Who shouldn’t buy it:People who want learning functions and advanced eco modes. plus more sensor options.
... Show more
Get it now
$189 at Amazon
$192 at Walmart
$136 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Wireless temperature sensors
Satellite sensors available (not included)Smart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home, Samsung SmartThingsHVAC C-wired required
YesAdditional sensors
N/A
Learn more
Sensi Touch 2 review
Add to compare
Resideo
Photo Gallery 1/2
Honeywell Home T10 thermostat and app against red CNET background. Resideo
Best smart thermostat for whole-house control
Honeywell Home T10 Pro+ Smart Thermostat
Pros
Simple, effective controls and app
Easy setup
Satellite sensor options
Humidity and air quality sensors for air management
Cons
Making full use of this thermostat requires big investment in Resideo's ecosystem
Why I like it:The Honeywell Home T9 was a very nice thermostat that combined smart features with a traditional design, but the upgrades for the T10 truly impressed us. Installation remains simple, and you can largely avoid app use if you prefer to stick with onboard controls. However, smart features still abound, and the thermostat works with remote sensors for targeted heating. The T10 really shines when combined with compatible Resideo whole-house devices like the TrueDRY dehumidifier or F200 Media Air Cleaner. It can use its readings (with an added Equipment Interface Model) to automatically shut this air quality equipment on or off for increased comfort without manual adjustment or complex smart device workarounds -- as long as you're willing to make the investment.Who is this for:Users who like the idea of investing in whole-house humidity and air quality control tied to their thermostat.Who shouldn’t buy it:Users who don't really plan on investing in a bunch of Resideo home tech.  ... Show more
Get it now
$199 at Amazon
$198 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Wireless temperature sensors
Satellite sensors available (not included)Smart home support
Apple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Home, Samsung SmartThingsHVAC C-wired required
Yes, adapter kits availableAdditional sensors
Can track humidity and air quality with the right add-ons
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/3
Ecobee's thermostat with mounting plant on a wood table. Tyler Lacoma/CNET
Best budget smart thermostat
Ecobee Smart Thermostat Essential
Pros
Affordable at under $150
Keeps many of the best Ecobee features like auto-away mode
Streamlined for ease of use
Retains the stylish touchscreen
Cons
Users who want to pay under $100 will have to look elsewhere
Lacks more advanced sensors
Why I like it:While it's not quite as cheap as my Amazon pick, I still think the Ecobee Essential model is one of the best budget thermostats if you're willing to spend around $140 for one. While it doesn't have the Premium's extra sensor or wireless satellite sensor, it does come with all the learning functions, useful screen information and app controls you could want. Ecobee's compatibility with Siri, Alexa and Google remains as well, so you have plenty of home control options. That makes this an excellent upgrade for those interested in a new thermostat but who would rather keep things simple while still getting lots of smart upgrades.Who is this for:Buyers looking for a more affordable, streamlined Ecobee thermostat with plenty of energy saving but no extras to worry about setting up.Who shouldn’t buy it:Buyers determined to spend less than $150 on a thermostat, users who want extra info about air quality or weather  ... Show more
Get it now
$135 at Amazon
$130 at Best Buy
$140 at B&H Photo-Video
Specs & Configurations
Wireless temperature sensors
Satellite sensors available (not included)Smart home support
Apple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant/GeminiHVAC C-wired required
Yes, adapter kits available through EcobeeAdditional sensors
N/A
Add to compareSmart thermostats compared undefined Best smart thermostatsEcobee Smart Thermostat PremiumAmazon Smart ThermostatNest Learning Thermostat (4th gen)Sensi Touch 2Honeywell Home T10 Pro Smart ThermostatEcobee Smart Thermostat Essential Price:
$260$80$263$178$209$140Presence sensing and learning functions:
YesYes with Echo devicesYesNoNoYesWireless temperature sensors: Included, can support multiple sensors in different roomsEcho Dot 5 can function as a satellite sensorSatellite sensor included, can average temperatures from multiple sensorsSatellite sensors available (not included)Satellite sensors available (not included)Satellite sensors available (not included)Smart home compatibility: Apple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant/GeminiAmazon AlexaAmazon Alexa, Google Home/GeminiAmazon Alexa, Google Home, Samsung SmartThingsApple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Home, Samsung SmartThingsApple Home/Siri, Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant/GeminiHVAC C-wired required: Yes, adapter kits available through EcobeeYesNoYesYes, adapter kits availableYes, adapter kits available through EcobeeAdditional sensors: Built-in indoor air quality and humidity sensorsPresence sensing added with Echo DotTracks outdoor weatherN/ACan track humidity and air quality with the right add-onsN/AReview score:
4.2/58.6/104/53.7/5N/AN/A
Other smart thermostats we've tested
GoogleCommercial Electric Smart Thermostat: Despite the name, this new offering from The Home Depot is a residential thermostat built to operate with the company’s Hubspace smart home platform, although it’ll work with Alexa and Google Home. It’s a fairly straightforward system that allows significant control but lacks truly smart features. My favorite feature is setting a schedule based on sunrise or sunset.Cync Smart Thermostat: This thermostat from GE Lighting, now owned by Savant which offers other home energy products such as solar batteries, offers good smart home interactions and the ability to buy an external sensor, but it lacked some of the more advanced features offered by other thermostats, while still costing more than the Amazon model.Nest Thermostat: The Nest Thermostat was a compelling choice at a mid-level price range ($205), but a few things held it back. For one, it lacks the intuitive interface and features of its smarter big sibling (the Nest Learning Thermostat), and it wants to use the Google Home app instead of the more intuitive and feature-rich Nest app used by the Learning model. The installation prompts send you straight into scheduling, so prepare for that.  Factors to consider when choosing a smart thermostat
Smart displays can control compatible thermostats with a touch. Google Nest/CNETWhen you’re shopping for a traditional standard thermostat, there isn’t much to consider. What does it look like? Can you program it? Does it have that cool old-fashioned dial? When shopping for a smart thermostat, there are a lot more options and some things one person may love while the next person may hate. Here’s what we think is important to consider. Smart home integrationSmart thermostats all come with some kind of app or option to control the device from your phone. If you have a particular affinity for one smart home family or another, you’ll want to make sure you’re getting a thermostat that will work in conjunction with your other devices. Most smart thermostats will take voice commands from Amazon’s Alexa, but if the rest of your home is running on, say, Apple’s HomeKit, not every device will provide support. Make sure you’re getting something that will play nice with the rest of your smart home.GeofencingFor the most part, your thermostat’s job is to keep your home comfortable. That means you don’t necessarily need it to be the perfect temperature when you aren’t home. Many smart thermostats feature geofencing, meaning they can track whether or not you’re home and set their expectations accordingly.Some devices track occupancy based on the phones of those in the household, while others combine that feature with other occupancy sensors. The good thing is that you can set limits around this feature: Do you want it to change the temperature when you’re away? How far away do you have to be for it to kick in? What temperature limits should there be if you aren’t home? The latter is important if you have pets. You don’t want the cats sweltering or freezing while you’re at work.How smart do you want your thermostat to be?Everyone wants a different level of control over their thermostat. Some people want to decide at every moment what the temperature should be. (In that case, you can also consider a basic Wi-Fi-enabled programmable thermostat like the Honeywell Home RTH6580WF, which doesn’t have as many smart features as its more expensive peers but can be adjusted from your phone.)Some smart thermostats can be too smart for their own good. One of the most common complaints I’ve heard is that some products will hold the temperature you set them to only for a little bit, and then they’ll revert to what the thermostat believes the temperature should be. If that would annoy you, focus on the ones that offer you the most control.
Taking a photo can take a lot of stress out of the thermostat installation process. Google NestInstallation and HVAC compatibilityRead my full guide on smart thermostat installation guide here.Not all thermostats are installed exactly the same way, but they’re all pretty similar. Expect to need a screwdriver, a pair of pliers capable of moving wires around and potentially a drill and a level. Installation is pretty simple once you’ve done it once or twice: Turn off the power, mark the wires, take off the old one, wire the new one and put the thermostat up. You’ll want to watch out for two potential complications: First, does your system have a C-wire? There are usually five or so wires that come out of your wall to connect a thermostat. The older wires tend to carry just enough electricity to power an old-school thermostat. Smarter devices, which can tell you the weather or maybe play your playlist and need an internet connection, need more power than that. This is achieved through a C-wire, designed to carry more electricity to the thermostat. Not every home is wired with one, but if you don’t have one, you have a couple of choices.The first is to get a thermostat that doesn’t require a C-wire. This is where the Nest thermostats are set apart because they’re capable of charging their batteries off the other wires. The second option is to install an adapter kit. This involves adding a device to your HVAC system that converts one of the existing wires into a C-wire. Fortunately, most smart thermostats we’ve looked at that require a C-wire come with these kits. If not, you can pick one up for under $25.The second installation complication is seeing if your thermostat requires any high-voltage wires. This is most common for thermostats that power older electric furnaces or electric baseboard heaters. Today's smart thermostats can support high voltage wiring or those heating devices until you upgrade your system. High-voltage wires are usually labeled and support current at 120 volts or more.
External sensorsYour thermostat knows what the temperature is because it has a thermometer inside of it. The device’s understanding of the temperature inside is usually limited to the temperature exactly where you mounted it to the wall. What about that stuffy bedroom?Many smart thermostats come with or are at least able to connect to separate room sensors. These room sensors allow you to train the thermostat to keep your house as comfortable as possible throughout the home. With external sensors, thermostats can target an individual room and get it to a comfortable temperature at a certain time (the bedroom at night, the home office during the day, etc.) or find a setting that makes everywhere as comfortable as possible, not just the room with the thermostat in it. Some even have proximity sensors in their room sensors, meaning they can tell when a room is occupied or not. How we test smart thermostats
Ecobee's thermostat with mounting plant on a wood table. Tyler Lacoma/CNETMost of the home energy products we test and evaluate here at CNET have a lot of numbers attached to them: the efficiency of solar panels and the power output of batteries. Not so with smart thermostats. All of these thermostats can perform the basic functions of turning your heater on when it’s cold and your AC on when it’s hot. Some of our scoring is based on tangible, mathematical data, but it’s mostly about the myriad ways you can interact with the thermostat to get the comfort level and energy savings you want.We’ve experimented, tested and handled each of the thermostats mentioned on this list, including installing them on a testing rig that simulates a standard HVAC system, programming them and trying their various features.
We used this rig, built by our CNET Labs engineers, to hook up a variety of thermostats to test their interfaces and apps. Adam Breeden/CNETThe 10-point scores we give smart thermostats are based on these metrics:20% is based on the available smart home connectivity and other features, including geofencing and external room sensors.20% is the price, with a formula that rewards less expensive products. Our methodology takes into account the price of any included room sensors.60% is completely subjective, based on our assessment of what the device offers, how easy it is to install, how easy the app or interface is to use and what features it has that might be non-standard for thermostats but helpful or useful for consumers.Choosing a thermostat is an incredibly subjective and personal choice, and our goal in scoring is to highlight those products that do the most and do them well. Your buying decision should focus on your priorities, which might not align exactly with ours, so be sure to look at more than just a score when choosing a device you will probably interact with almost every day. Smart thermostat privacy and security
Thermostat sensors can go anywhere to monitor specific temperatures. Google NestSince smart thermostats use a variety of sensors to monitor your activity, you may have privacy concerns. I dig deep into thermostat privacy in this guide, but the bottom line is that there isn't too much to worry about. Smart thermostats can't "watch" you or record video of your home, only get a broad sense of when people are moving around and when a house is still. Companies typically log data on how the thermostat and app are used, like when the thermostat begins an automatic temperature change and when it's manually altered. Thermostat brands use that info for product analysis as well as marketing efforts. Within limitations, they may give it to third parties if you consent. Remember, if you use a voice assistant, it's probably recording your temperature commands for later analysis unless you have voice assistant settings to turn that option off. What we've updated
Ecobee's temperature sensors also include presence sensing. EcobeeSpring 2025: I added the Ecobee Essential model as an excellent budgets option for those who want more features than the absolute cheapest thermostats, but still want to save a lot on initial costs. Also, I made sure that our Honeywell Home picked was the latest T10 version that integrates with Resideo whole-home air quality equipment.
Smart thermostat FAQ
How do I install a smart thermostat?
If you’ve ever installed a thermostat before, you can install a smart thermostat (provided your home has the right wiring). Every smart thermostat comes with installation instructions, whether in a printed pamphlet, on an app, or both. Essentially, the directions all boil down to: Shut off the circuit for your HVAC system and make sure the power is off by trying to turn the heat or air on.Remove your old thermostat, leaving the wires attached.Label the wires and/or take a picture of them so you know which is which.Disconnect the wires from your old thermostat.Prepare the back plate of the new thermostat and the wall plate, which can cover up the area around the thermostat installation, if you’re using it. Insert the wires into the back plate as the new thermostat directs.Mount the plates, attach the thermostat and turn the power back on.
Show more
Are smart thermostats really worth it?
They can be. A smart thermostat, if used correctly, can minimize your use of energy by running your HVAC system only when necessary. It might also be worth it by enabling you to have more control over the temperature in your home, including adjusting the temperature from your phone or by voice command.
Show more
Can a smart thermostat save you money?
That depends on how much energy it actually saves. If the smart thermostat results in you using less energy to heat and cool your home, that’s savings. Considering that heating and cooling is by far the biggest use of energy in American homes, the savings could be significant. You can also save money by participating in programs like a virtual power plant, which could give you credits in exchange for a little bit of control when the grid needs it. If your energy habits don’t change, you might just have a more expensive gadget to go with the same energy bills.
Show more
What do you need to know before you buy a smart thermostat?
The most important thing you need to know is why you’d get one and what your goals would be. A smart thermostat can be a valuable tool, but if you’re just going to turn the dial on it to change the temperature, it might not be worth it. Make sure you know what you’re looking to get out of it, whether that’s energy savings, smart home integration or just a better understanding of your energy consumption.You also need to know whether your HVAC system is compatible with the thermostat you want. Most manufacturers have a guide to see if it will work. The third thing: Know if your HVAC system has a C-wire installed, although that’s not necessarily a deal-breaker.
Show more
Who should purchase a smart thermostat?
If you’re looking to take more control over your energy use, a smart thermostat could be a big part of that. You should also consider one if you hate having to change the temperature setting often, or if you frequently need to do so from the other side of the house.
Show more
What about privacy and security?
As with anything “smart” these days, there are some risks and concerns about the privacy and security of the information these devices collect and share. Consider the company’s data collection and sharing policies and weigh them against your personal preferences. Smart thermostats will generally collect data about how they're used along with how the app is used, but this doesn't usually include especially sensitive information.
Show more
Can I get a smart thermostat if I don't have a C-wire?
You can. There are a couple of ways to go about it. One is to install a C-wire adapter, which many smart thermostats come with. This will require some wiring work at the HVAC unit, but it will allow you to run a smart thermostat.Aside from that option, there are some smart thermostats that can run without a C-wire: the Nest products. Of these, the Nest Learning Thermostat, while pricier, was one of our favorites.
Show more
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Solar Installer Guides
Best Solar Products and Companies
Best Solar Panels
Best Solar Batteries
Most Efficient Solar Panels
Best Solar Companies
Best Solar Shingles
Best Portable Solar Panels
Best Solar Generators
Best Solar Inverters
Solar Installers by State
California
Washington
Ohio
Florida
New Jersey
Michigan
Texas
Virgina
Alabama
Arizona
Maryland
Oklahoma
Solar Installers & Storage
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Tesla Solar Roof Review
Sunrun Solar Panels Review
GAF Energy Review
Sunnova Solar Review
Smartflower Solar Review
SunPower Review
Trinity Solar Review
ADT Solar Review
Enphase Battery Review
Tesla Powerwall Review
Sunpower Sunvault Review
Generac Pwrcell Review
Sonnen Battery Review
LG ESS Home 8 Review
Panasonic Evervolt Battery Review
Solar Resources and Guides
Why Solar Panels Will Likely Keep Getting Cheaper
How to Make Your Solar Panels Last Longer
How the Solar Tax Credit Works
How Much Do Solar Panels Cost?
This Is How Many Solar Panels You'll Need to Power Your Home
Solar Power Purchase Agreements Explained: The Pros and Cons
Free Solar Panels: What's in the Fine Print?
Avoid Solar Panel Scams: 7 Tips for Getting a Great Deal
Solar Panels Will Eventually Save You Money. How to Know When the real Savings Begin
This Is How Long You Can Expect Your Solar Panel Installation to Take
The Pros and Cons of Solar Panels
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.