Best Coffee Maker of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeKitchen & Household Coffee Makers
Best Coffee Makers of 2025
We've tested more than a dozen coffee machines at CNET to help you make the best pots for the best price.
Our Experts
Written by
Corin Cesaric
Written by
Andrew Blok
Written by
David Watsky
Article updated on July 3, 2025 at 8:00 AM PDT
Corin Cesaric Editor Corin Cesaric is a Flex Editor at CNET. She received her bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri-Columbia. Before joining CNET, she covered crime at People Magazine and national and international news at NBC Local Television Stations. Expertise Home | Health | Energy | Climate Change | AI | Appliances
See full bio
Andrew Blok Former Editor Andrew Blok covered home energy, with a focus on solar, and navigated the changing energy landscape to help people make smart energy decisions. He's a graduate of the Knight Center for Environmental Journalism at Michigan State and has written for several publications in the Great Lakes region, including Great Lakes Now and Environmental Health News. Expertise Solar providers and portable solar power; coffee makers, grinders and products Credentials Master's degree in environmental journalism
See full bio
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
If you're a regular coffee drinker, you know how important that first cup of the day can be, so why not make it the best one as well? There are dozens of ways to make classic non-espresso coffee but the most popular remain drip, pour over and French press coffee makers. Our Picks
Best overall coffee maker OXO Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker
Jump to details
$200 at Oxo
Jump to details
Best coffee maker under $100 Ninja 12-Cup Programmable Coffee Brewer
Jump to details
$65 at Walmart
Jump to details
Best cheap coffee maker Mr. Coffee Simple Brew 12-Cup Switch
Jump to details
$25 at Target
Jump to details
Best for speedy pots Breville Luxe Brewer Drip Coffee Maker
Jump to details
$350 at Williams-Sonoma
Jump to details
Most stylish coffee maker Aarke Coffee Maker
Jump to details
$400 at Crate & Barrel
Jump to details
Best splurge and best for coffee connoisseur Technivorm Moccamaster
Jump to details
$327 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best cold brew coffee maker Oxo Brew Cold Brew Coffee Maker
Jump to details
$51 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best pour-over coffee maker OXO Good Grips Pour-Over
Jump to details
$18 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 3 more
Table of Contents
Best Coffee Makers of 2025
What is the best coffee maker of 2025?
Best coffee makers of 2025
Best overall coffee maker
Best coffee maker under $100
Best cheap coffee maker
Best for speedy pots
Most stylish coffee maker
Best splurge and best for coffee connoisseur
Best cold brew coffee maker
Best pour-over coffee maker
Recent updates
Drip coffee makers compared
How we tested the coffee makers
Other coffee makers we tested in 2025
Your first order of business is choosing the method you prefer. To help you narrow down further to the best of each, we tested a slew of drip machines to pour-over setups.Here's everything to know about picking the best coffee machine in 2025.What is the best coffee maker of 2025?After hours of testing, the OXO Brew 8-Cup coffee maker came out on top. It merges a sleek and compact design with consistent performance and above-average heat retention, all for a fair price, though it's by no means a budget buy. If it's a cheap-but-effective coffee maker you seek, or one flush with features, we have picks for those in our list below. Best coffee makers of 2025
Brian Bennett/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Brian Bennett/CNET
Best overall coffee maker
OXO Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker
Pros
Compact
Attractive, sturdy design
Brews excellent pots of coffee quickly
Thermal carafe doesn't drip while pouring
Cons
The filter basket could be easier to fill
What we liked:The Oxo Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker coffee is approved by the Speciality Coffee Association Golden Cup, an independent program that determines if brewers meet the rigorous requirements of industry experts. The thoughtfully designed machine takes ground coffee and also comes with a special single-cup filter basket for Kalita Wave filters. The Oxo Brew is the best drip coffee maker that's compact, stylish and sturdy. Plus, it comes with a thermal carafe that doesn't drip or spill.Who it's for: This is the perfect coffee maker for anyone who wants a quality coffee machine that is sturdy and compact enough to tuck away in a cabinet when needed. It performed as well or better than models that cost $300 and kept coffee at an ideal serving temperature (160 F) for hours after brewing, thanks to the insulated stainless-steel carafe. Who should avoid it: This might not be the best choice for those who want their coffee ready by the time they wake up because there is no programmable option. It should also be noted that this coffee maker does not have a hot plate, but the coffee stays warm because of the vacuum-insulated, stainless-steel thermal carafe.  ... Show more
Get it now
$200 at Oxo
$200 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
10.5"D x 7"W x 13.5"HCapacity
8 cupsCaraffe type
Stainless steelProgrammable
NoBrewing style
DripWarranty
2 years
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best coffee maker under $100
Ninja 12-Cup Programmable Coffee Brewer
Pros
Consistent performance at a fair price
Numerous features including programmed brewing
Kept temperature stable for more than two hours
Cleaning cycle
Cons
Flimsier plastic and thinner glass than pricier picks
What we liked:Often found at a sale price of less than $70, the Ninja 12-Cup Programmable Coffee Brewer made pots of smooth, balanced coffee and bringing it home won't bust your budget. This coffee maker offers plenty of bells and whistles so you can schedule your coffee brew a day ahead, adjust the warming plate and remove the water reservoir. It did take longer to brew than others -- 10 and a half minutes -- but that's where the programmable function can come in handy. With a reusable filter in the box you can also cut down on one more coffee expense.Who it's for:If you're looking for a drip coffee maker with plenty of settings, this is the best option of the models we tested. You can make numerous adjustments, including if you want a classic or rich cup, until you find the perfect setting for your tastebuds. We found the design thoughtful and the digital controls intuitive.Who should avoid it:Someone who wants a simple machine with only one or two buttons. The plastic parts feel flimsier and the glass thinner than more expensive coffee makers on our list.  ... Show more
Get it now
$65 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
8"D x 10"W x 14"HCapacity
12 cupsCaraffe type
GlassProgrammable
YesBrewing technology
DripWarranty
1-year limited warranty
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best cheap coffee maker
Mr. Coffee Simple Brew 12-Cup Switch
Pros
Affordable
Simple to use, just one-button brewing
Ideal for small kitchens
Cons
There was a lot of evaporation, which resulted in less coffee
What we liked:This simple coffee maker held its own during testing and is a great starter pot for those who want a no-fuss machine. It took 12 minutes to brew a full pot and there was a decent amount of evaporation, but the coffee was smooth and the operation was easy. It also held the coffee's temperature reasonably well for more than an hour after brewing.Who it's best for: Someone who wants to make coffee at home and on a budget. Who should avoid it: Those who are looking for a coffee maker with a lot of features or one that makes speedy pots. Its build is somewhat flimsy, as you might expect from a less-than-$30 machine. Water also evaporated faster during brewing, which resulted in a smaller, more concentrated coffee than some of the better calibrated coffee makers.  ... Show more
Get it now
$25 at Target
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
9.2"D x 12.3"W x 13.6"HCapacity
12 cupsCaraffe type
GlassProgrammable
NoBrewing technology
DripWarranty
1-year limited warranty
Add to compare
Corin Cesaric/NET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Corin Cesaric/NET
Best for speedy pots
Breville Luxe Brewer Drip Coffee Maker
Pros
Easy to use
Brewed faster than all except one coffee maker we tested
Digital timer display
Plenty of customization options
Dedicated cold brew setting
Cons
Pricier than some other options
Larger footprint
What we liked:This coffee maker brewed quickly and efficiently in our tests. It was the second fastest, right below our top pick, the OXO 8-cup, and it has a handy timer display that we found easy to read. There are three brewing settings, including cold brew, so it's a good choice for those who want hot and cold coffee options.Who it's best for: This is a great option for those who want total control over their coffee and require a fast brew for those rushed mornings. It's available in five colors so there is a match for every kitchen. Who should avoid it: Someone on a tight budget or with limited space as it is larger than other options on our list.
... Show more
Get it now
$350 at Williams-Sonoma
$350 at Breville
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
6.98"D x 14.65"W x 16.05"H Capacity
10 cupsCaraffe type
Stainless steel or glassProgrammable
YesBrewing technology
DripWarranty
2-year repair or replacement warranty
Add to compare
Lardera Coffee
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lardera Coffee
Most stylish coffee maker
Aarke Coffee Maker
Pros
Pleasing Scandi design
Easy to use
Durable metal scoop
Kept coffee at an ideal serving temperature for more than an hour
Cons
Pricier than most at $380
Rarely goes on sale
What we liked:If it's looks you're after, the Aarke stole our hearts with it's stylish Scandinavian design and shimmering stainless-steel build. This coffee pot brewed a pot of coffee in 6 minutes and held its temperature to within a degree or two over a one-hour period after brewing. The machine also stayed cool to the touch during and after the brewing process, making it a great pick for homes with curious young hands. Who it's best for: Someone who wants an easy-to-use coffee maker that brews consistently and looks great on the counter. Who should avoid it: While the Aarke delivered on brewing great pots of coffee in about 6 minutes, you're paying extra for the sleek design and a high-end finish. If this look doesn't appeal to you, it's not worth the extra money.  ... Show more
Get it now
$400 at Crate & Barrel
$400 at Williams-Sonoma
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
6.7"D x 12.6"W x 14.5"HCapacity
10 cupsCaraffe type
GlassProgrammable
NoBrewing technology
DripWarranty
Registered warranty available
Add to compare
CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
CNET
Best splurge and best for coffee connoisseur
Technivorm Moccamaster
Pros
Brews great coffee consistently
Elegant design looks like it belongs in a laboratory
Keeps coffee hot for 6 hours
Cons
Pricier than other options
Takes up a lot of space
Not programmable
What we liked:Dutch company Technivorm has sold exceptionally good drip coffee makers for decades. Its Moccamaster drip coffee machine sports a design with clean lines and sharp angles that harkens back to 1968, the year the first Moccamaster hit stores. Retro design aside, the Moccamaster KBT 741 consistently puts out perfect freshly brewed coffee that will satisfy true coffee connoisseurs. Its stainless-steel thermal carafe also keeps its contents hot for a full 6 hours.Who it's best for: Someone who takes their morning coffee seriously and doesn't mind giving up the countertop space this machine demands. Its design makes it look like laboratory equipment, giving it a conversation starter quality.Who should avoid it: Anyone who want a simple, compact drip coffee maker or budget-friendly options.  ... Show more
Get it now
$327 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
6.75"D x 11.5"W x 15.25"HCapacity
10 cupsCaraffe type
Stainless steelProgrammable
NoBrewing technology
DripWarranty
5 years
Add to compare
CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
CNET
Best cold brew coffee maker
Oxo Brew Cold Brew Coffee Maker
Pros
Simple to use, easy way to steep and strain grounds at room temperature
Consistently strong coffee
Paper filters add extra level of filtration
Cons
Can't brew with hot water
12-24 hours of steeping
What we liked:Cold-brew coffee is delicious but it can be a pain to make. Oxo's cold-brew coffee maker takes much of the headache out of the process -- just load it up with ground coffee and let it do its thing. This Oxo Brew coffee maker saturates coffee grounds evenly and lets you drain cold-brewed coffee from them into its glass carafe with relative ease.Who it's best for: Someone who drinks mostly cold brew coffee and is interested in making it in batches. Who should avoid it: Those who want single-servings of cold brew coffee or don't have kitchen space for a dedicated cold brew maker. For single-serving cold brew, the Breville Luxe Brewer Drip Coffee Maker have dedicated features to make strong coffee to serve over ice.
... Show more
Get it now
$51 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
9.53"D x 9.53"W x 14.72"HCapacity
5 cupsProgrammable
NoBrewing technology
Cold brewWarranty
Lifetime limited warranty
Add to compare
Tyler Lizenby/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lizenby/CNET
Best pour-over coffee maker
OXO Good Grips Pour-Over
Pros
Easy to manually brew coffee
Consistent
Cleaning is easy, all parts are dishwasher safe
Cons
Made of plastic instead of glass, metal or wood
What we liked: Delicious coffee and great-tasting drip from a product that costs less than $20? It sounds unlikely but that's just what the affordable OXO Good Grips Pour-Over offers. It only makes coffee one drink at a time and requires you to provide hot water and ground coffee. Looking for a great electric kettle? We've got the best electric kettle options right here. That said, the simple brewer transforms the otherwise complex task of making a pour-over into one that's easy, clean and almost foolproof.Who it's best for: Those who want a consistent pour over for an affordable price.Who should avoid it: Someone who doesn't want a plastic pour over.  ... Show more
Get it now
$18 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Dimensions
5.25"D x 5.25"W x 5.25"HCapacity
12 ouncesProgrammable
NoBrewing technology
Pour overWarranty
OXO's Better Guarantee
Add to compareRecent updates
June 2025OXO Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker was re-tested and kept its spot as the best overall coffee maker on our list.The Ninja Programmable XL 14-Cup Coffee Maker was removed from our list as best coffee maker for $100 or less and replaced by Ninja's 12-Cup Programmable Coffee Brewer.Wilfa Performance Coffee Maker was removed from our list as most stylish coffee maker and replaced by Aarke Coffee Maker. Bunn Velocity Brew BT was removed from our list as best coffee maker for speedy pots and replaced by Breville Luxe Brewer Drip Coffee Maker.OXO Brew Cold Brew Coffee Maker was retested and kept its spot as the best cold brew coffee maker on our list. Mr. Coffee Simple Brew 12-Cup Switch Coffee Maker was tested and added to our list. Drip coffee makers compared
DimensionsCapacityCaraffe typeProgrammablePrice Oxo Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker 10.5"D x 7"W x 13.5"H8 cupsStainless steelNo$200Ninja 12-Cup Programmable Coffee Brewer 8"D x 10"W x 14"H12 cupsGlassYes$90Mr. Coffee Simple Brew 12-Cup Switch Coffee Maker 9.2"D x 12.3"W x 13.6"H12 cupsGlassNo$40Breville Luxe Brewer Drip Coffee Maker 6.98"D x 14.65"W x 16.05"H 10 cupsStainless steel or glassYes$350Aarke Coffee Maker 6.7"D x 12.6"W x 14.5"H10 cupsGlassNo$400Technivorm Moccamaster 6.75"D x 11.5"W x 15.25"H
10 cupsStainless steelNo$340
Corin Cesaric/CNET
What to consider when buying a coffee maker
Capacity and size
A single-service machine is great for personal use. However, if you prefer a larger carriage for all-day drinking caffeine, or have a large household of coffee drinkers, a larger machine would be a better fit. While you're at it, you will also want to consider if the coffee machine fits your kitchen counter.
Customizations and features
Some machines allow for fine-tuned control over strength, temperature settings or even include a built-in grinder. These features often impact the pricing, so you will want to keep an eye out and prioritize features that you absolutely need.
Ease of use and cleaning
Programmable timers and auto-cleaning functions are great quality of life additions for long-term use and can be worth paying a premium for. At the same time, you will want to choose a coffee machine that is easy to use and clean.
Running costs
A cheap coffee machine can quickly turn expensive if maintenance costs aren't factored in. You will want to keep an eye out for machines with easy availability of spares and repairability or good warranties. Keurigs and pod coffee makers have the highest running costs because a single serving coffee pod costs between 40 cents and $1.10, significantly more than a serving made with bagged beans using a manual coffee maker. How we tested the coffee makers
Evaluating the performance of a coffee maker is trickier than it might sound. You need to know what good drip coffee is and, according to the Specialty Coffee Association, there are essential criteria for brewing well. Brewing time and water temperature top the list. Hot water should come into contact with grounds for no less than four minutes and no more than eight. The ideal water temperature range is between 197 degrees Fahrenheit (92 degrees Celsius) and 205 degrees Fahrenheit (96 degrees Celsius).
Enlarge Image
We measure the temperature inside the brewing chamber of every coffee maker we test. Brian Bennett/CNETTo see how well each coffee maker met that challenge during our initial test years ago, we logged the length of their brew cycles. We also employ thermocouple heat sensors connected to industrial-grade data loggers. That enabled us to record the temperature within the coffee grounds while brewing is underway.After brewing coffee, we took sample readings of the produced coffee liquid with an optical refractometer. Given that we factor in the amount of water and freshly ground coffee used, that data lets us calculate the Total Dissolved Solids percentage of each brew. From there we arrive at the extraction percentage. The ideal range is commonly thought to be between 18% and 20%. To be certain, we brewed identical test runs a minimum of three times to get a sense of the average results.During our most recent test in 2025, we tested a total of nine coffee makers, some of which were previously tested and some that were new. We used one cup of ground coffee for each and eight cups of water. We took into account features each coffee maker had, how easy they were to use and clean and the brewing temperature of the coffee directly after brewing and up to an hour later as well to determine how well they held temperature.
David Watsky/CNETBrewed coffee temperatures compared
Coffee makerTime to brew 8 cupsTemperature of coffee after brewingTemperature after 15 minutesTemperature after 30 minutesTemperature after 60 minutes OXO Brew 8-Cup Coffee Maker 4 minutes and 35 seconds177 F174 F171 F169 FAarke Coffee Maker 6 minutes169.5 F168 F167 F165 FBreville Luxe Brewer Drip Coffee Maker 4 minutes and 41 seconds183 F180 F177 F170 FMr. Coffee Simple Brew 12-Cup Switch Coffee Maker 12 minutes167 F170 F169 F163 FNinja 12-Cup Programmable Coffee Brewer 10 minutes and 30 seconds178 F175 F174 F173 FNinja DualBrew Xl Grounds & Pods Hot & Iced Coffee Maker 6 minutes and 30 seconds177 F179 F181 F186 FCuisinart PerfecTemp 14-Cup Programmable Coffee Maker 12 minutes176 F175 F175 F172 FMelitta Vision 12-Cup Coffee Maker 12 minutes178 F178 F178 F140 F
Coffee maker FAQ
How long do coffee makers last?
If cared for properly a coffee maker can last for years. That said, with the exception of Technivorm Moccamasters which are covered under a five-year warranty, most coffee makers come with one-year limited warranties. Regardless of their length, all these warranties cover manufacturing defects, not ordinary wear and tear or misuse of the item.
Show more
How do coffee makers work?
Even the most sophisticated coffee makers perform the same simple task. That's to run hot water over ground coffee, then collect that liquid inside a container. Achieving the perfect balance of strength and flavors for excellent coffee is difficult. Most machines fail because either they lack quality water-heating systems, run water through the grounds too slowly, or can't brew with enough grounds to begin with. Some coffee makers suffer from a combination of these issues -- or all three.
Show more
How do you clean a coffee maker?
Besides removing external dirt, stains and dust, all coffee makers require periodic deep cleaning. Specifically, their internal water heating systems should be de-scaled regularly. Some manufacturers instruct you to do this with a vinegar-and-water solution. Others don't specify except to say to use a store-bought descaling solution. For example, Technivorn says to use products like Durgol to de-scale its machines.
Show more
Is it worth buying an expensive coffee maker?
Expensive coffee makers tend to be a good investment as they can make better coffee. These machines offer better control over temperature, and the flow of water all of which is critical to brewing a better cup of coffee.
Other coffee makers we tested in 2025
Cuisinart PerfecTemp 14-Cup Programmable Coffee MakerNinja DualBrew Xl Grounds & Pods Hot & Iced Coffee MakerMelitta Vision 12-Cup Coffee Maker
David Watsky/CNET
About the Author
Corin Cesaric Editor Corin Cesaric Editor
Corin Cesaric is a Flex Editor at CNET. She received her bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri-Columbia. Before joining CNET, she covered crime at People Magazine and national and international news at NBC Local Television Stations.
Read full bio
Also written by
Andrew Blok Former EditorAlso written by
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen
Kitchen and Household Guides
Appliances
Best Toaster Oven
Best Cordless Vacuum
Best Coffee Maker
Best Dishwasher
Best Robot Vacuum
Best Air Fryer
Best Air Purifier
Best Juicer
Best Electric Kettle
Best Countertop Oven and Air Fryer
Best Rice Cooker
Best Water Filter Pitcher
Best Blender
Best Instant Pot
Best Espresso Machine
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.