You Can Now Subscribe to VICE Magazine
+ English
Close
VICEEditions
English
Bahasa Indonesia
Czech
Danish
Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Nederlands
Polish
Portuguese
Română
Russian
Srpski
Swedish
Ελληνικά
عربي
日本語
한국어
Open Menu
Close Menu
Magazine
TV
News
Life
Tech
Munchies
Music
Waypoint
Shop
Members
Newsletters
Instagram
TikTok
YouTube
Video
TV
Shop
Members
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
Reddit
YouTube
Search
Culture
News
Tech
Munchies
Drugs
Entertainment
Environment
Extremism
Identity
Investigations
Music
Waypoint
Photography
Sex
Travel
Announcements
You Can Now Subscribe to VICE Magazine
We’re relaunching VICE magazine in all its sprawling and salacious glory, with four issues a year, delivered anywhere in the world.
By Kevin Lee Kharas
May 1, 2025, 8:55am
Photo: Nicolas Dykmans
Share:
Click to share on X (Opens in new window)X
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Facebook
Share using Native toolsShareCopied to clipboard
The latest issue of Vice magazine is our summer 2025 edition: THE REASONS TO BE CHEERFUL ISSUE. To subscribe to four print issues each year, click here. To ensure that THE REASONS TO BE CHEERFUL ISSUE is the first in your package, subscribe by Friday, August 29.
2025 sees the glorious return of VICE magazine to print, marking a new golden era of weird and wonderful reportage in a totally messed-up world.
For the first time in six years, an elite team of our greatest writers and photographers has been gathered together in 120 pages that you can hold in your hands, smell with your nose, tear into tiny pieces, and frame on your living room wall. But like everything else in modern life, if you want it to exist, you have to pay for it. Don’t blame us, blame market forces!
The year began with The Rock Bottom Issue, and 2025’s second installment—The Reasons To Be Cheerful Issue—is currently landing on the doorsteps of our paying members. The third, an historic issue in the pantheon of VICE magazine, is just around the corner…
What You’ll Get and What It Costs
For $70 per year, you can get our full-works print and digital membership—you’ll receive all 4 print issues of the magazine per year straight to your door, as well as exclusive access to the paywalled Members Only section of VICE.com.
While print is back, that doesn’t mean we’re leaving the internet behind. With a digital membership, you can jump the paywall into our Members Only Section, where you’ll get exclusive early access to brand new VICE documentaries before they’re streaming anywhere else, as well as members-only content from our best writers and columnists.
If, for some reason, you don’t want the magazine, you can get an annual digital-only membership for $20 a year—or $2 per month, if you’d rather do it that way.
The cash we raise through this will be funneled straight back into making more great video and written editorial for you to gorge yourselves silly upon. It’s a virtuous cycle, insert yourself into it by browsing the various membership options below.
Shortly after signing up for the print subscription, you will receive an email asking you to confirm your shipping address. By signing up you agree to our privacy policy, terms and conditions, and our fulfilment policy.
WHAT’S INCLUDED IN THE PRINT & DIGITAL SUBSCRIPTION?
4 x issues of VICE Magazine, one arriving at your doorstep every quarter
Exclusive access to new VICE documentaries
Our paywalled Members Only section, featuring exclusive features and columns
PRICE: $70 PER YEAR
WHAT’S INCLUDED IN THE DIGITAL-ONLY SUBSCRIPTION?
Exclusive access to an all-new VICE documentaries
Our paywalled Members Only section, featuring exclusive features and columns
PRICE: $20 PER YEAR or $2 PER MONTH
Digital Monthly
$2.00 / month
Exclusive New VICE Documentaries
Member Exclusive Features & Columns
Join Now
Digital Annual
$20.00 / year
Exclusive New VICE Documentaries
Member Exclusive Features & Columns
Join Now
Print & Digital
$70.00 / year
Exclusive New VICE Documentaries
Member Exclusive Features & Columns
4 Magazines Delivered to Your Door
Join Now
WHAT NEXT?
The print & digital subscription includes access to 4 magazines a year, while the digital only subscription includes online access to exclusive films and articles
By signing up you agree to our privacy policy (here), terms and conditions (here) and our fulfillment policy (here)
The magazine will be shipped internationally. Please get in touch if you have any queries related to shipping
Contact membersupport@vice.com with any questions related to the subscription
Tagged:VICE Magazine
Share:
Click to share on X (Opens in new window)X
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Facebook
Share using Native toolsShareCopied to clipboard
MoreLike This
(Photo by Mike Coppola/Getty Images for MTV)
Doja Cat Releases ‘Vie’ Album Art to Mixed Reviews, Forgives ‘Harsh Criticism’
32 minutes ago
By Caleb Catlin
TORONTO, ONTARIO – APRIL 24: (L-R) James Hetfield and Kirk Hammett of Metallica perform at Rogers Centre on April 24, 2025 in Toronto, Ontario. (Photo by Jeremychanphotography/Getty Images)
Metallica is Getting the Funko POP! Treatment Again
36 minutes ago
By Stephen Andrew Galiher
UCLA Health
Meet Robin, the Robot Comforting Kids in Children’s Hospitals
56 minutes ago
By Luis Prada
Screenshot: Square Enix/ Anthony Franklin II
Final Fantasy Tactics: The Ivalice Chronicles Finally Got Me Into Tactics RPGs (Review)
59 minutes ago
By Anthony Franklin II
Screenshot: Kojima Productions
Directors for Hideo Kojima’s OD May Have Just Been Leaked
1 hour ago
By Brent Koepp
Alberto Pizzoli/Contributor/Getty Images
Pope Leo Said No to That Nightmarish AI Pope Idea
1 hour ago
By Luis Prada
MoreFrom VICE
Photo by Joel Sharpe/Getty Images
You Have Fingers Because a Prehistoric Fish Needed to Poop
1 hour ago
By Luis Prada
Photo: Heorhii Aryshtevych / Getty Images
The Subscription Era Is Over. The Purge Has Begun in America.
2 hours ago
By Ashley Fike
Gazelle Medeo T10 – Credit: Gazelle
Go Dutch on Two Wheels With This Very Fine Ebike Built in the Netherlands
2 hours ago
By Matt Jancer
Totallee The Scarf on an iPhone Air – Credit: Totallee
Need a Thin Case for Your Thin iPhone Air? Try This.
2 hours ago
By Matt Jancer
VICE Media
Instagram
TikTok
YouTube
About
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Security Policy
Fulfillment Policy
© 2025 VICE Digital Publishing, LLC
Thank for your puchase!
You have successfully purchased.
OK
×
Add your account details
Next