GitHub - ItzCrazyKns/Perplexica: Perplexica is an AI-powered search engine. It is an Open source alternative to Perplexity AI
Skip to content
Navigation Menu
Toggle navigation
Sign in
Appearance settings
Platform
GitHub Copilot
Write better code with AI
GitHub Spark
New
Build and deploy intelligent apps
GitHub Models
New
Manage and compare prompts
GitHub Advanced Security
Find and fix vulnerabilities
Actions
Automate any workflow
Codespaces
Instant dev environments
Issues
Plan and track work
Code Review
Manage code changes
Discussions
Collaborate outside of code
Code Search
Find more, search less
Explore
Why GitHub
Documentation
GitHub Skills
Blog
Integrations
GitHub Marketplace
MCP Registry
View all features
Solutions
By company size
Enterprises
Small and medium teams
Startups
Nonprofits
By use case
DevSecOps
DevOps
CI/CD
View all use cases
By industry
Healthcare
Financial services
Manufacturing
Government
View all industries
View all solutions
Resources
Topics
AI
DevOps
Security
Software Development
View all
Explore
Learning Pathways
Events & Webinars
Ebooks & Whitepapers
Customer Stories
Partners
Executive Insights
Open Source
GitHub Sponsors
Fund open source developers
The ReadME Project
GitHub community articles
Repositories
Topics
Trending
Collections
Enterprise
Enterprise platform
AI-powered developer platform
Available add-ons
GitHub Advanced Security
Enterprise-grade security features
Copilot for business
Enterprise-grade AI features
Premium Support
Enterprise-grade 24/7 support
Pricing
Search or jump to...
Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests...
Search
Clear
Search syntax tips
Provide feedback
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously.
Include my email address so I can be contacted
Cancel
Submit feedback
Saved searches
Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly
Name
Query
To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.
Cancel
Create saved search
Sign in
Sign up
Appearance settings
Resetting focus
You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
Dismiss alert
ItzCrazyKns
/
Perplexica
Public
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Fork
2.6k
Star
25k
Perplexica is an AI-powered search engine. It is an Open source alternative to Perplexity AI
License
MIT license
25k
stars
2.6k
forks
Branches
Tags
Activity
Star
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Code
Issues
157
Pull requests
39
Discussions
Actions
Projects
0
Security
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Insights
Additional navigation options
Code
Issues
Pull requests
Discussions
Actions
Projects
Security
Insights
ItzCrazyKns/Perplexica
masterBranchesTagsGo to fileCodeOpen more actions menuFolders and filesNameNameLast commit messageLast commit dateLatest commit History569 Commits.assets.assets  .github.github  datadata  docsdocs  drizzledrizzle  publicpublic  searxngsearxng  srcsrc  uploadsuploads  .dockerignore.dockerignore  .eslintrc.json.eslintrc.json  .gitignore.gitignore  .prettierignore.prettierignore  .prettierrc.js.prettierrc.js  CONTRIBUTING.mdCONTRIBUTING.md  LICENSELICENSE  README.mdREADME.md  app.dockerfileapp.dockerfile  docker-compose.yamldocker-compose.yaml  drizzle.config.tsdrizzle.config.ts  entrypoint.shentrypoint.sh  next-env.d.tsnext-env.d.ts  next.config.mjsnext.config.mjs  package.jsonpackage.json  postcss.config.jspostcss.config.js  sample.config.tomlsample.config.toml  tailwind.config.tstailwind.config.ts  tsconfig.jsontsconfig.json  yarn.lockyarn.lock  View all filesRepository files navigationREADMEContributingMIT license🚀 Perplexica - An AI-powered search engine 🔎
Special thanks to:
Warp, the AI Devtool that lives in your terminal
Available for MacOS, Linux, & Windows
Table of Contents
Overview
Preview
Features
Installation
Getting Started with Docker (Recommended)
Non-Docker Installation
Ollama Connection Errors
Using as a Search Engine
Using Perplexica's API
Expose Perplexica to a network
One-Click Deployment
Upcoming Features
Support Us
Donations
Contribution
Help and Support
Overview
Perplexica is an open-source AI-powered searching tool or an AI-powered search engine that goes deep into the internet to find answers. Inspired by Perplexity AI, it's an open-source option that not just searches the web but understands your questions. It uses advanced machine learning algorithms like similarity searching and embeddings to refine results and provides clear answers with sources cited.
Using SearxNG to stay current and fully open source, Perplexica ensures you always get the most up-to-date information without compromising your privacy.
Want to know more about its architecture and how it works? You can read it here.
Preview
Features
Local LLMs: You can utilize local LLMs such as Qwen, DeepSeek, Llama, and Mistral.
Two Main Modes:
Copilot Mode: (In development) Boosts search by generating different queries to find more relevant internet sources. Like normal search instead of just using the context by SearxNG, it visits the top matches and tries to find relevant sources to the user's query directly from the page.
Normal Mode: Processes your query and performs a web search.
Focus Modes: Special modes to better answer specific types of questions. Perplexica currently has 6 focus modes:
All Mode: Searches the entire web to find the best results.
Writing Assistant Mode: Helpful for writing tasks that do not require searching the web.
Academic Search Mode: Finds articles and papers, ideal for academic research.
YouTube Search Mode: Finds YouTube videos based on the search query.
Wolfram Alpha Search Mode: Answers queries that need calculations or data analysis using Wolfram Alpha.
Reddit Search Mode: Searches Reddit for discussions and opinions related to the query.
Current Information: Some search tools might give you outdated info because they use data from crawling bots and convert them into embeddings and store them in a index. Unlike them, Perplexica uses SearxNG, a metasearch engine to get the results and rerank and get the most relevant source out of it, ensuring you always get the latest information without the overhead of daily data updates.
API: Integrate Perplexica into your existing applications and make use of its capibilities.
It has many more features like image and video search. Some of the planned features are mentioned in upcoming features.
Installation
There are mainly 2 ways of installing Perplexica - With Docker, Without Docker. Using Docker is highly recommended.
Getting Started with Docker (Recommended)
Ensure Docker is installed and running on your system.
Clone the Perplexica repository:
git clone https://github.com/ItzCrazyKns/Perplexica.git
After cloning, navigate to the directory containing the project files.
Rename the sample.config.toml file to config.toml. For Docker setups, you need only fill in the following fields:
OPENAI: Your OpenAI API key. You only need to fill this if you wish to use OpenAI's models.
CUSTOM_OPENAI: Your OpenAI-API-compliant local server URL, model name, and API key. You should run your local server with host set to 0.0.0.0, take note of which port number it is running on, and then use that port number to set API_URL = http://host.docker.internal:PORT_NUMBER. You must specify the model name, such as MODEL_NAME = "unsloth/DeepSeek-R1-0528-Qwen3-8B-GGUF:Q4_K_XL". Finally, set API_KEY to the appropriate value. If you have not defined an API key, just put anything you want in-between the quotation marks: API_KEY = "whatever-you-want-but-not-blank" You only need to configure these settings if you want to use a local OpenAI-compliant server, such as Llama.cpp's llama-server.
OLLAMA: Your Ollama API URL. You should enter it as http://host.docker.internal:PORT_NUMBER. If you installed Ollama on port 11434, use http://host.docker.internal:11434. For other ports, adjust accordingly. You need to fill this if you wish to use Ollama's models instead of OpenAI's.
GROQ: Your Groq API key. You only need to fill this if you wish to use Groq's hosted models.
ANTHROPIC: Your Anthropic API key. You only need to fill this if you wish to use Anthropic models.
Gemini: Your Gemini API key. You only need to fill this if you wish to use Google's models.
DEEPSEEK: Your Deepseek API key. Only needed if you want Deepseek models.
AIMLAPI: Your AI/ML API key. Only needed if you want to use AI/ML API models and embeddings.
Note: You can change these after starting Perplexica from the settings dialog.
SIMILARITY_MEASURE: The similarity measure to use (This is filled by default; you can leave it as is if you are unsure about it.)
Ensure you are in the directory containing the docker-compose.yaml file and execute:
docker compose up -d
Wait a few minutes for the setup to complete. You can access Perplexica at http://localhost:3000 in your web browser.
Note: After the containers are built, you can start Perplexica directly from Docker without having to open a terminal.
Non-Docker Installation
Install SearXNG and allow JSON format in the SearXNG settings.
Clone the repository and rename the sample.config.toml file to config.toml in the root directory. Ensure you complete all required fields in this file.
After populating the configuration run npm i.
Install the dependencies and then execute npm run build.
Finally, start the app by running npm run start
Note: Using Docker is recommended as it simplifies the setup process, especially for managing environment variables and dependencies.
See the installation documentation for more information like updating, etc.
Troubleshooting
Local OpenAI-API-Compliant Servers
If Perplexica tells you that you haven't configured any chat model providers, ensure that:
Your server is running on 0.0.0.0 (not 127.0.0.1) and on the same port you put in the API URL.
You have specified the correct model name loaded by your local LLM server.
You have specified the correct API key, or if one is not defined, you have put something in the API key field and not left it empty.
Ollama Connection Errors
If you're encountering an Ollama connection error, it is likely due to the backend being unable to connect to Ollama's API. To fix this issue you can:
Check your Ollama API URL: Ensure that the API URL is correctly set in the settings menu.
Update API URL Based on OS:
Windows: Use http://host.docker.internal:11434
Mac: Use http://host.docker.internal:11434
Linux: Use http://<private_ip_of_host>:11434
Adjust the port number if you're using a different one.
Linux Users - Expose Ollama to Network:
Inside /etc/systemd/system/ollama.service, you need to add Environment="OLLAMA_HOST=0.0.0.0:11434". (Change the port number if you are using a different one.) Then reload the systemd manager configuration with systemctl daemon-reload, and restart Ollama by systemctl restart ollama. For more information see Ollama docs
Ensure that the port (default is 11434) is not blocked by your firewall.
Using as a Search Engine
If you wish to use Perplexica as an alternative to traditional search engines like Google or Bing, or if you want to add a shortcut for quick access from your browser's search bar, follow these steps:
Open your browser's settings.
Navigate to the 'Search Engines' section.
Add a new site search with the following URL: http://localhost:3000/?q=%s. Replace localhost with your IP address or domain name, and 3000 with the port number if Perplexica is not hosted locally.
Click the add button. Now, you can use Perplexica directly from your browser's search bar.
Using Perplexica's API
Perplexica also provides an API for developers looking to integrate its powerful search engine into their own applications. You can run searches, use multiple models and get answers to your queries.
For more details, check out the full documentation here.
Expose Perplexica to network
Perplexica runs on Next.js and handles all API requests. It works right away on the same network and stays accessible even with port forwarding.
One-Click Deployment
Upcoming Features
Add settings page
Adding support for local LLMs
History Saving features
Introducing various Focus Modes
Adding API support
Adding Discover
Finalizing Copilot Mode
Support Us
If you find Perplexica useful, consider giving us a star on GitHub. This helps more people discover Perplexica and supports the development of new features. Your support is greatly appreciated.
Donations
We also accept donations to help sustain our project. If you would like to contribute, you can use the following options to donate. Thank you for your support!
Ethereum
Address: 0xB025a84b2F269570Eb8D4b05DEdaA41D8525B6DD
Contribution
Perplexica is built on the idea that AI and large language models should be easy for everyone to use. If you find bugs or have ideas, please share them in via GitHub Issues. For more information on contributing to Perplexica you can read the CONTRIBUTING.md file to learn more about Perplexica and how you can contribute to it.
Help and Support
If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to reach out to us. You can create an issue on GitHub or join our Discord server. There, you can connect with other users, share your experiences and reviews, and receive more personalized help. Click here to join the Discord server. To discuss matters outside of regular support, feel free to contact me on Discord at itzcrazykns.
Thank you for exploring Perplexica, the AI-powered search engine designed to enhance your search experience. We are constantly working to improve Perplexica and expand its capabilities. We value your feedback and contributions which help us make Perplexica even better. Don't forget to check back for updates and new features!
About
Perplexica is an AI-powered search engine. It is an Open source alternative to Perplexity AI
Topics
search-engine
machine-learning
artificial-intelligence
searxng
ai-search-engine
perplexity-ai
open-source-perplexity-ai
open-source-ai-search-engine
perplexica
searxng-copilot
Resources
Readme
License
MIT license
Contributing
Contributing
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Activity
Stars
25k
stars
Watchers
164
watching
Forks
2.6k
forks
Report repository
Releases
32
v1.10.2
Latest
Apr 7, 2025
+ 31 releases
Contributors
40
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
+ 26 contributors
Languages
TypeScript
99.4%
Other
0.6%
Footer
© 2025 GitHub, Inc.
Footer navigation
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact
Manage cookies
Do not share my personal information
You can’t perform that action at this time.