implementation - Returning ENOSPC in write() operation in a FUSE filesystem - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Returning ENOSPC in write() operation in a FUSE filesystem
Ask Question
Asked
3 days ago
Modified
3 days ago
Viewed
19 times
0
While implementing a simple filesystem for FUSE, I have arrived to the write() operation:
/** Write data to an open file
*
* Write should return exactly the number of bytes requested
* except on error.
An exception to this is when the 'direct_io'
* mount option is specified (see read operation).
*
* Changed in version 2.2
*/
int (*write) (const char *, const char *, size_t, off_t,
struct fuse_file_info *);
The implemented operation works properly, except for the error received in the client application using the mounted filesystem when there is not enough space to write all data. The application (simple cp command) is getting EIO:
$ cp ../LOGO ../a/
cp: error copying '../LOGO' to '../a/LOGO': Input/output error
which is apparently coming from copy_file_range() as shown in this log fragment from strace:
copy_file_range(4, NULL, 5, NULL, 9223372035781033984, 0) = 488
copy_file_range(4, NULL, 5, NULL, 9223372035781033984, 0) = -1 EIO (Input/output error)
The callback write() for FUSE is returning only an int with the amount of data written. So, my question is: how can returning a proper error (which would be ENOSPC - "No space left on device") be implemented for such case?
(Most likely, this should be something allowing to pass a proper errno to FUSE - but in case of write(), which is returning only size of written data, there seem to be no direct way to do this.)
filesystemsimplementationfuse
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked Sep 17 at 16:28
t-wt-w
4155 bronze badges
3
1
Have you tried returning -ENOSPC?
tkausl
–
tkausl
2025-09-17 16:35:38 +00:00
Commented
Sep 17 at 16:35
1
The problem is, as I wrote in my question, that the write() callback does not return an error code, but written data size(!) Thats what many functions do, return a positive value for success or a negative error code. Also, the comment never said that it can't return an error code. It only specifies that, on success, it must (write and) return the exact number of bytes requested, its not allowed to write less, "except on error". It unfortunately doesn't specify what to return on error, hence I assumed returning an error code would work.
tkausl
–
tkausl
2025-09-17 16:53:20 +00:00
Commented
Sep 17 at 16:53
Yes, you are correct. Thank you. It does work with negated errno.
t-w
–
t-w
2025-09-17 16:57:02 +00:00
Commented
Sep 17 at 16:57
Add a comment
|
1 Answer
1
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
1
Per the libfuse documentation for the callback functions,
Most of these should work very similarly to the well known UNIX file system operations. A major exception is that instead of returning an error in 'errno', the operation should return the negated error value (-errno) directly.
Thus, if you want your write() callback to indicate ENOSPC as the nature of an error, then it should do so by returning -ENOSPC.
Share
Improve this answer
Follow
answered Sep 17 at 16:38
John BollingerJohn Bollinger
188k1111 gold badges100100 silver badges197197 bronze badges
3 Comments
Add a comment
t-w t-w Sep 17 at 16:55
Yes, it works. It was a bit confusing that 2 different types of data can be returned (error code or data size). This actually makes it clear why the errno has to be negated (so that it does not "collide" with data sizes). Thanks! 2025-09-17T16:55:01.05Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
John Bollinger John Bollinger Sep 17 at 17:06
You're welcome.
FWIW, the standard UNIX I/O functions such as write() also return two different kinds of data, in much the same way.
The difference to libfuse is that the standard functions report an error by setting errno and returning -1, whereas FUSE expects error numbers to be conveyed directly in (negative) return values.
write() returning -1 does not mean that -1 bytes were written. None of the functions involved, FUSE or native, have any negative return values that convey success. 2025-09-17T17:06:07.787Z+00:00
0
Reply
Copy link
t-w t-w Sep 17 at 17:35
That is clear of course. The -1 is however a standard (POSIX and whatever else) while the errno are (or, at least, can be) OS-specific. What in an extreme case could collide with data sizes in FUSE on an OS where a funky designer would make negative numbers as errno... That is why returning the code did not seem to me initially the right way (but, of course, I assumed that too fast...). Thanks again for help. 2025-09-17T17:35:39.153Z+00:00
0
Copy link
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
filesystemsimplementationfuse
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Stack Overflow is helping you learn to code with new resources
Off with your CMS’s head! Composability and security in headless CMS
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Related
1
Fuse- Implementing Write operation
15
In Memory FUSE filesystem
3
Fuse Filesystem Problem
2
Support write operation in FUSE filesystem using FUSE-J
4
df-statfs in FUSE filesystem
1
Fuse Filesystem to communicate with FTP
0
creating a new filesystem call for FUSE filesystem
0
Writing empty file doesn't write file, writing too large file writes empty file
Hot Network Questions
Historic mistake in sign of KdV equation
Can I use Heroic Inspiration on a natural 1 on an Attack roll?
Buffering line vectors that only buffer along the length of the line in QGIS
Swapping honey for sugar in whole wheat bread recipe
Why is my battery being zapped?
How does boss dialogue change if fought at max level?
Trilogy set on a very unusual human colony. According to the law, only a certain quota of scientists (perhaps 50) are allowed to live on the planet
How to remove BitLocker encryption for a volume that does not have a drive-letter
Do the Matrix movies take place in our present or our future?
Interpretation of slope coefficient when a variable appears in multiple powers
In Much Ado About Nothing, why aren't the lines: "...live in THINE heart ... buried in THINE eyes"? (V.2.102-3)
Trying to understand the fundamental behavior of parallel connections
A man you don't meet every day
Two definitions of regularity for ultrafilters
How to add more drives to a sambashare and also best arrangement for multiple drives of different sizes in a RAID setup
Toilet seat positioning on thunder box
What happens when a creature with the See Invisibility spell is blinded?
What does ripe fig falling into the eater's mouth in Nahum 3:12 signify?
How to justify a mass hierarchal administrative demotion without causing a coup/civil war
How to completely disable Google Chrome page translate function?
Does an NSCF job modify the SCF folder in QE?
Submitted the same research article in two journals, now I'm scared
Is the carry-on maximum weight limit applied at check-in or at boarding?
I need a reason for artillery to still be used despite suboptimal conditions and terrain
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.19.34211