Apple's latest iPhone security feature just made life more difficult for spyware makers | TechCrunch
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
LatestStartupsVentureAppleSecurityAIAppsDisrupt 2025
EventsPodcastsNewsletters
SearchSubmit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
Latest
AI
Amazon
Apps
Biotech & Health
Climate
Cloud Computing
Commerce
Crypto
Enterprise
EVs
Fintech
Fundraising
Gadgets
Gaming
Google
Government & Policy
Hardware
Instagram
Layoffs
Media & Entertainment
Meta
Microsoft
Privacy
Robotics
Security
Social
Space
Startups
TikTok
Transportation
Venture
More from TechCrunch
Staff
Events
Startup Battlefield
StrictlyVC
Newsletters
Podcasts
Videos
Partner Content
TechCrunch Brand Studio
Crunchboard
Contact Us
Image Credits:Paul Morris/Bloomberg / Getty Images
Security
Apple’s latest iPhone security feature just made life more difficult for spyware makers
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
Zack Whittaker
3:00 PM PDT · September 11, 2025
Buried in an ocean of flashy novelties announced by Apple this week, the tech giant also revealed new security technology for its latest iPhone 17 and iPhone Air devices. This new security technology was made specifically to fight against surveillance vendors and the types of vulnerabilities they rely on the most, according to Apple.
The feature is called Memory Integrity Enforcement (MIE) and is designed to help stop memory corruption bugs, which are some of the most common vulnerabilities exploited by spyware developers and makers of phone forensic devices used by law enforcement.
“Known mercenary spyware chains used against iOS share a common denominator with those targeting Windows and Android: they exploit memory safety vulnerabilities, which are interchangeable, powerful, and exist throughout the industry,” Apple wrote in its blog post.
Cybersecurity experts, including people who make hacking tools and exploits for iPhones, tell TechCrunch that this new security technology could make Apple’s newest iPhones some of the most secure devices on the planet. The result is likely to make life harder for the companies that make spyware and zero-day exploits for planting spyware on a target’s phone or extracting data from them.
“The iPhone 17 is probably now the most secure computing environment on the planet that is still connected to the internet,” a security researcher, who has worked on developing and selling zero-days and other cyber capabilities to the U.S. government for years, told TechCrunch.
The researcher told TechCrunch that MIE will raise the cost and time to develop their exploits for the latest iPhones, and consequently up their prices for paying customers.
“This is a huge deal,” said the researcher, who asked to remain anonymous to discuss sensitive matters. “It’s not hack proof. But it’s the closest thing we have to hack proof. None of this will ever be 100% perfect. But it raises the stakes the most.”
Contact Us
Do you develop spyware or zero-day exploits and are studying studying the potential effects of Apple’s MIE? We would love to learn how this affects you. From a non-work device, you can contact Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai securely on Signal at +1 917 257 1382, or via Telegram and Keybase @lorenzofb, or email. You also can contact TechCrunch via SecureDrop.
Jiska Classen, a professor and researcher who studies iOS at the Hasso Plattner Institute in Germany, agreed that MIE will raise the cost of developing surveillance technologies.
Classen said this is because some of the bugs and exploits that spyware companies and researchers have that currently work will stop working once the new iPhones are out and MIE is implemented.
“I could also imagine that for a certain time window some mercenary spyware vendors don’t have working exploits for the iPhone 17,” said Classen.
“This will make their life arguably infinitely more difficult,” said Patrick Wardle, a researcher who runs a startup that makes cybersecurity products specifically for Apple devices. “Of course that is said with the caveat that it’s always a cat-and-mouse game.”
Wardle said people who are worried about getting hacked with spyware should upgrade to the new iPhones.
The experts TechCrunch spoke to said MIE will reduce the efficacy of both remote hacks, such as those launched with spyware like NSO Group’s Pegasus and Paragon’s Graphite. It will also help to protect against physical device hacks, such as those performed with phone unlocking hardware like Cellebrite or Graykey.
Taking on the “majority of exploits”
Most modern devices, including the majority of iPhones today, run software written in programming languages that are prone to memory-related bugs, often called memory overflow or corruption bugs. When triggered, a memory bug can cause the contents of memory from one app to spill into other areas of a user’s device where it shouldn’t go.
Memory-related bugs can allow malicious hackers to access and control parts of a device’s memory that they shouldn’t be permitted to. The access can be used to plant malicious code that’s capable of gaining broader access to a person’s data stored in the phone’s memory, and exfiltrating it over the phone’s internet connection.
MIE aims to defend against these kinds of broad memory attacks by vastly reducing the attack surface in which memory vulnerabilities can be exploited.
According to Halvar Flake, an expert in offensive cybersecurity, memory corruptions “are the vast majority of exploits.”
MIE is built on a technology called Memory Tagging Extension (MTE), originally developed by chipmaker Arm. In its blog post, Apple said over the past five years it worked with Arm to expand and improve the memory safety features into a product called Enhanced Memory Tagging Extension (EMTE).
MIE is Apple’s implementation of this new security technology, which takes advantage of Apple having complete control of its technology stack, from software to hardware, unlike many of its phone-making competitors.
Google offers MTE for some Android devices; the security-focused GrapheneOS, a custom version of Android, also offers MTE.
But other experts say Apple’s MIE goes a step further. Flake said the Pixel 8 and GrapheneOS are “almost comparable,” but the new iPhones will be “the most secure mainstream” devices.
MIE works by allocating each piece of a newer iPhone’s memory with a secret tag, effectively its own unique password. This means only apps with that secret tag can access the physical memory in the future. If the secret doesn’t match, the security protections kick in and block the request, the app will crash, and the event is logged.
That crash and log is particularly significant since it’s more likely for spyware and zero-days to trigger a crash, making it easier for Apple and security researchers investigating attacks to spot them.
“A wrong step would lead to a crash and a potentially recoverable artifact for a defender,” said Matthias Frielingsdorf, the vice president of research at iVerify, a company that makes an app to protect smartphones from spyware. “Attackers already had an incentive to avoid memory corruption.”
Apple did not respond to a request for comment.
MIE will be on by default system wide, which means it will protect apps like Safari and iMessage, which can be entry points for spyware. But third-party apps will have to implement MIE on their own to improve protections for their users. Apple released a version of EMTE for developers to do that.
In other words, MIE is a huge step in the right direction, but it will take some time to see its impact, depending on how many developers implement it and how many people buy new iPhones.
Some attackers will inevitably still find a way.
“MIE is a good thing and it might even be a big deal. It could significantly raise the cost for attackers and even force some of them out of the market,” said Frielingsdorf. “But there are going to be plenty of bad actors that can still find success and sustain their business.”
“As long as there are buyers there will be sellers,” said Frielingsdorf.
Topics
Apple Event, Cellebrite, cybersecurity, Graykey, hackers, hacking, iOS, iPhone, NSO, NSO Group, Security, Spyware, Zero-days
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai
Senior Reporter, Cybersecurity
Lorenzo Franceschi-Bicchierai is a Senior Writer at TechCrunch, where he covers hacking, cybersecurity, surveillance, and privacy.
You can contact or verify outreach from Lorenzo by emailing lorenzo@techcrunch.com, via encrypted message at +1 917 257 1382 on Signal, and @lorenzofb on Keybase/Telegram.
View Bio
Zack Whittaker
Security Editor
Zack Whittaker is the security editor at TechCrunch. He also authors the weekly cybersecurity newsletter, this week in security.
He can be reached via encrypted message at zackwhittaker.1337 on Signal. You can also contact him by email, or to verify outreach, at zack.whittaker@techcrunch.com.
View Bio
October 27-29, 2025
San Francisco
Founders: land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Investors: discover your next breakout startup. Innovators: claim a front-row seat to the future. Join 10,000+ tech leaders at the epicenter of innovation. Register now and save up to $668.Regular Bird rates end September 26
Register Now
Most Popular
Neon, the No. 2 social app on the Apple App Store, pays users to record their phone calls and sells data to AI firms
Sarah Perez
Trump hits H-1B visas with $100,000 fee, targeting the program that launched Elon Musk and Instagram
Connie Loizos
Updates to Studio, YouTube Live, new GenAI tools, and everything else announced at Made on YouTube
Karyne Levy
Google isn’t kidding around about cost cutting, even slashing its FT subscription
Connie Loizos
Meta CTO explains why the smart glasses demos failed at Meta Connect — and it wasn’t the Wi-Fi
Sarah Perez
OpenAI’s research on AI models deliberately lying is wild
Julie Bort
How AI startups are fueling Google’s booming cloud business
Maxwell Zeff
Loading the next article
Error loading the next article
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunchStaffContact UsAdvertiseCrunchboard JobsSite Map
Terms of ServicePrivacy PolicyRSS Terms of UseCode of Conduct
H1-B VisaGPT PulseGrokSteph CurryTechCrunch DisruptTech LayoffsChatGPT
© 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.