Disability services | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
Disability services
SSDI and SSI benefits for people with disabilities
Disability benefit finder
Disability benefits while working
Get paid as a caregiver
Job training and employment programs
Discrimination, harassment, and retaliation
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Voter accessibility laws
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
Disability services
Disability services
Most popular
Get paid as a caregiver for a family member or friend
Learn how to continue benefits while working
Find disability employment programs
Get information for people with disabilities and their families, including what disability benefits are available while working, getting paid as a caregiver, and finding jobs.
SSDI and SSI benefits for people with disabilities
Learn about Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI).
Benefit finder: disability
Whether you are newly disabled or have a lifelong challenge, assistance may be available, including financial help.
Continuing disability benefits while working
Learn about the rules for working while receiving government disability benefits.
Get paid as a caregiver for a family member
Learn how friends or family can get paid for helping people with disabilities with daily activities.
Job training and employment programs for people with disabilities
If you have a disability and are looking for work, these resources can help.
Discrimination, harassment, and retaliation
Learn about the federal and state laws that protect you from unfair and unwelcome treatment at work.
Your rights under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
The ADA protects your disability rights in employment, government services, and more.
Voter accessibility laws
Learn about voter accessibility laws. Get accommodations for disabilities and language barriers.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests