Best Mobile Games To Play in 2025: Top Paid and Free Games - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
TechGaming Mobile Gaming
The 15 Best Mobile Games in 2025: Top iPhone and Android Games
From arcade classics to modern indie darlings, we've collected the best games you can carry in your pocket.
Tyler Graham Writer Tyler is a writer under CNET's home energy and utilities category. He came to CNET straight out of college, where he graduated from Seton Hall with a bachelor's degree in journalism. For the past seven months, Tyler has attended a White House press conference, participated in energy product testing at CNET's testing labs in Louisville, Kentucky, and written one of CNET Energy's top-performing news articles, on federal solar policy. Not bad for a newbie.
When Tyler's not asking questions or doing research for his next assignment, you can find him in his home state of New Jersey, kicking back with a bagel and watching an action flick or playing a new video game.
You can reach him at tgraham@cnet.com. Expertise Community solar, state solar policy, solar cost and accessibility, renewable energy, electric vehicles, video games, home internet for gaming.
See full bio
Tyler Graham
April 8, 2025
1:49 p.m. PT 13 min read
Motion Twin, Evil Empire
Whether you have an iPhone or an Android device in your pocket, you're a part of the most popular (and arguably most profitable) segment of the games industry. There are 3.4 billion active mobile gamers in the world, according to Newzoo's data analysts.The world of mobile gaming is constantly evolving, and it's easy to fall victim to choice paralysis when trying to figure out where to start. While you can still download games from your phone's app store, you can just as easily boot up an emulator, stream Xbox Game Pass titles through cloud gaming or subscribe to the Apple Arcade service. There are more games available at your fingertips than ever before.This carefully curated list includes the best games across both iPhone and Android that you can download right now, including older arcade-style classics and newer indie games that'll push your mobile gaming experience to the next level.For the latest on iPhone gaming and iOS, check out everything Apple announced at WWDC 2025.
LocalThunk
Balatro
Developer LocalThunk's poker-themed deckbuilding roguelike game is guaranteed to make you lose track of time as you sink into the cycle of playing "just one more run." There's a reason why Balatro is CNET's Game of the Year 2024: It's really, really hard to put down. Balatro might not have a story, but the stakes are still high when the cards are on the table -- success is derived from the perfect mix of Joker synergies, game knowledge and a pinch of luck.Learning how the effects of rare cards will stack a hand in your favor can feel kind of like cheating in a card game with friends. There's a sneaky thrill to securing your chips and beating a round's ante score. When you get knocked out of a run, you earn even more Jokers to augment your next playthrough, ensuring that the game never gets stale. Balatro doesn't require speed nor dexterity, but it rewards players for being creative little swindlers, making it one of the perfect games to pick up on your mobile device.Release Date: Feb. 20, 2024Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Poker-themed deckbuilder roguelikeDeveloper: LocalThunk
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Poncle
Vampire Survivors
The first "bullet heaven" game, Vampire Survivors, has charmed millions of gamers with its Castlevania-inspired aesthetics and simple combat loop. You can play developer Poncle's breakout hit singlehandedly, making it a perfect on-the-go game. By picking upgrades and carefully moving your character around the screen, you can slay hordes of bats, mummies, gargoyles and any other ghast or ghoul closing in on your position.Though it's deceptively easy on the surface, Vampire Survivors' base game features multiple maps with unique challenges, 48 playable characters with unique starting equipment and permanent upgrades and weapons that add completely new attack synergies. To master Vampire Survivors, players must engage with meta-progression systems and find attack combos that work well with their favorite characters.With a wealth of in-game achievements to chase, it feels like there's always something to work toward while you play. Once you complete the base game, there are five DLCs to expand the Vampire Survivors experience -- including Castlevania, Contra and Among Us crossovers.Release Date: Dec. 17, 2021Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Roguelite bullet heavenDeveloper: Poncle
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Rovio Entertainment
Red's First Flight aka Angry Birds
Building on the bones of the popular browser game Crush the Castle, the Angry Birds franchise combines kinetic physics-based puzzles with a colorful cast of characters. Though the original game went missing-in-action after Rovio pulled it from app stores, fan backlash won the day: Red's First Flight is a rewrite of the first Angry Birds game utilizing the Unity engine.Red's First Flight includes several hundred levels of increasing complexity of structures built by enemy pigs that players must destroy with flung birds. As players progress through the game, they unlock new birds with special powers, like the high-velocity yellow bird or the explosive black bird. It's up to players to earn all three stars on every level, perfecting bird usage and puncturing whatever defenses the pigs have set up to protect themselves.This remake of the original Angry Birds game might not be available on the Google Play store, but it's still one of the best iPhone games in 2025.Release Date: March 31, 2022Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch)Genre: Bird-brained castle crusher puzzlesDeveloper: Rovio Entertainment
See at iOS App Store
Night School Studio
Oxenfree
Charming pixel graphics and peaceful "talk and walk" gameplay sections belie the dark paranormal mystery at the center of Night School Studio's game Oxenfree, originally launched on PC and rereleased on mobile. Alex, her stepbrother Jonas and her friends arrive on Edwards Island to throw a small party but quickly find themselves out of their depth as they're sucked into time rifts and attacked by ghosts.In this story-driven, dialogue-based game, it's up to the player to close the rifts and keep Alex's friends safe. Alex has loved and lost much in her young life, and the time rifts around the island offer her a way to change the past -- but doing so could have unexpected consequences in the present. Players must perform a careful calculus to ensure they wrap up this adventure without severing Alex's most important relationships.Like some other games on this list, Oxenfree's mobile version is released by Netflix, meaning you'll need a subscription to the service to play it, though it is free to those signed up.Release Date: Jan. 15, 2016Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: 2.5D paranormal mystery adventure, "walking sim" with puzzlesDeveloper: Night School Studio
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Niantic
Pokemon Go
Niantic's AR Pokemon catcher is more than a fantastic mobile game. It's one of the best Pokemon games of all time, delivering on the promise of letting players become real-life trainers by scattering everyone's favorite pocket monsters around their hometown. Though 2016's brand of on-the-go "pokemania" is a thing of the past, Niantic is still introducing new features and gameplay mechanics for Pokemon Go nearly a decade later.If you're a Pokemon fan, you'll find something to enjoy in this game. You can try to complete the Pokedex, amass a menagerie of your favorite Pokemon species, create the strongest raid team or build a strategy to battle other players, all while taking care of your virtual companions. Pokemon Go understands that the franchise is fundamentally about nurturing a connection between people and Pokemon -- and it helps you foster connections in the real world too.Release Date: July 6, 2016Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Alternate reality creature collectorDeveloper: Niantic, Inc.
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
MiHoYo
Genshin Impact
It's no surprise why Genshin Impact helped developer MiHoYo break through to a Western audience: The game combines Breath of the Wild's open-world exploration with flashy elemental combat to great effect. Players take on the role of the Traveler, a powerful being who lost their sibling in the fantasy realm of Teyvat. To find their family, the Traveler sets off on a journey across the world's seven nations, solving problems, battling monsters and putting together a party of like-minded fighters.Genshin Impact's combat system combines real-time action with strategy, as players are encouraged to swap four party members in-and-out of battle to take advantage of seven different types of elemental abilities. Most enemies are weak to certain elements and resistant to others, but combining elemental attacks can result in powerful effects that level the playing field. Genshin Impact allows up to four players to take on the world of Teyvat together in seamless co-op play, and mobile users can matchmake alongside console and PC players.Release Date: Sept. 28, 2020Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Open world action RPG with gacha elementsDeveloper: MiHoYo
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Innersloth
Among Us
The social deception game known worldwide, Among Us launched in 2018 but became a cultural phenomenon after being picked up by prominent Twitch streamers during the COVID-19 lockdowns. Players take on the role of an astronaut crew stranded in space and need to complete mission-critical tasks to ensure they get home safely. That sounds easy on the surface, but the catch is that a handful of players are alien impostors tasked with eliminating the entire crew. It's up to the astronauts to complete their tasks before getting picked off or to eject the impostors from the airlock, ending the threat once and for all.Among Us offers a great way to connect with (and backstab) other people, from close friends to complete strangers. It's a game first and foremost, but it's also a social platform designed to meet new people and spend time with old friends. None of the tasks are mechanically intensive or challenging, which means there's a low barrier to entry. Among Us also supports full crossplay with PC and console players, which means mobile players have unrestricted access to their friends' lobbies. Just don't trust them too much.Release Date: June 15, 2018Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Sci-fi social deception with Looney Tunes violenceDeveloper: Innersloth
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
TiMi Studio Group
Call of Duty Mobile
Gamers familiar with Activision's first-person shooter juggernaut will find themselves right at home on TiMi Studio Group's Call of Duty Mobile. Much like the mainline series, this game features multiplayer, battle royale and zombies modes, creating a healthy mix of PvP and co-op action.Many fan-favorite modes show up in Call of Duty Mobile, including Team Deathmatch, Domination, Hardpoint, Search and Destroy and Kill Confirmed. If that sounds a little too serious, special events rotate party modes like Prop Hunt, Gun Game and Sticks and Stones into the playlists fairly often. An in-game credit system allows players to earn any weapon, scorestreak or piece of equipment for free, keeping all players on a more-or-less even playing field as they run and gun around iconic Call of Duty maps.As far as mobile first-person shooting goes, Call of Duty Mobile offers the best breadth and depth of available experiences across its core game modes.Release Date: Oct. 1, 2019Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: PvP first-person shooter with a featured battle royale modeDeveloper: TiMi Studio Group
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Imangi Studios
Temple Run
As one of the original endless runner games, Temple Run has a no-nonsense setup that places you right in the middle of the action. The player is an enterprising tomb raider who snatches up a golden idol and has to contend with ancient traps and eroded infrastructure as they hightail it away from a relentless dark spirit.Temple Run feels like one of the arcade greats, with simple gameplay mechanics that speed up the further you make it in a run. Coins scattered throughout the ruins allow players to buy permanent upgrades and temporary abilities before they try to make another run at the idol.While the meta-progression system is a tad rudimentary compared to some contemporary games, Temple Run is a classic for a reason. Temple Run remains one of the best iPhone and Android games more than a decade after its release.Release Date: Aug. 4, 2011Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Endless runnerDeveloper: Imangi Studios
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Motion Twin, Evil Empire
Dead Cells
Developer Motion Twin's critically acclaimed side-scrolling action roguelike is one big jailbreak, but how you choose to fight your way out is up to you. Taking on the role of an enigmatic Prisoner, players fight their way across an island of diseased monsters in order to assassinate the king. Though the Prisoner is immortal, the bodies he possesses can be destroyed -- which means a single misstep can send him scurrying back to the prison block to look for another host.Dead Cells' combat revolves around tight mechanics, forcing players to dodge through enemies and wail on them during brief windows of vulnerability. This is a punishing game where a lack of game knowledge will end a run, but setting traps and gaining permanent upgrades between runs will help make each encounter feel more manageable. Reaching the king might feel like an exercise in futility at first, but Dead Cells is like a Souls game in that there's a moment where the action just clicks, and you'll never be able to put it down afterward.Release Date: Aug. 7, 2018Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Side-scrolling ARPG roguelike with metroidvania elementsDeveloper: Motion Twin, Evil Empire
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Supergiant Games
Hades
Greek gods never seem to have an easy go of things in video games. That's especially true for Zagreus, the main character of Supergiant Games' roguelike action RPG Hades. As the prince of the underworld fights his way toward his mother Persephone, the Olympian pantheon aids him in the fight against his father.There's breadth and depth to the builds players can create in Hades, choosing to wield different weapons and accept different God-like boons in each run. Once players successfully complete four separate dungeons -- Tartarus, Asphodel, Elysium and the Temple of Styx -- and defeat the final boss, the game will offer new challenges.In order to learn Zagreus' full story, players will need to defeat Hades many times, talk to the inhabitants of the underworld and master all of the game's mechanics and synergies. It's one of the best roguelike games ever released, but a caveat for the mobile version: you'll need a Netflix subscription to play, which requires logging in to your account to get access. On the flip side, it's free for those signed up to the streaming service.Release Date: Sept. 17, 2020Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad)Genre: Roguelike isometric action RPG focused on telling an epic narrativeDeveloper: Supergiant Games
See at iOS App Store
King
Candy Crush Saga
Even your grandma knows about the sweetest "match three" game out there. Candy Crush Saga may have been developer King's first foray into mobile gaming, but their addictive puzzle designs have had remarkable staying power, with more than 200 million people continuing to play throughout 2024.Players work side-by-side with Tiffi to solve problems in the Candy Kingdom, blasting boards full of colorful candy to finish each level. Swapping candies with power ups and creating lines of four or more of the same candy allows players to remove large amounts of candy at once. Candy Crush Saga is a simple puzzle game, but it has hundreds of levels with different gimmicks, objectives and board layouts.Release Date: April 12, 2012Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Match three puzzlerDeveloper: King
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
PopCap Games
Plants vs. Zombies
It takes a green thumb and a lot of strategy to send the undead back to the compost pile in one of developer PopCap Games' most enduring titles. As one of the most influential tower defense games of all time, Plants vs. Zombies tasks players with defending their home by planting a plethora of powerful flora and fungi to defend different garden lanes. After preptime concludes, players need to continue managing their yard as the zombies begin their siege.There's a surprising amount of strategy present in Plants vs. Zombies. The first batch of levels teaches players how to generate sun and use the currency to manage their plants, but difficulty ramps up in later levels. Nighttime stages prevent the generation of sun, forcing players to work within budgetary constraints, and poolside levels necessitate lilypads to place plants on certain lanes. Plants vs. Zombies is a feature-complete tower defense with 50 challenging levels and an endless survival mode that you can take on when you've mastered the game. And once you're done with the first game, pick up the sequel Plants vs. Zombies 2 for additional plant types, map environments and more.Release Date: May 5, 2009Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Horizontal multi-lane tower defenseDeveloper: PopCap Games
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Ustwo Games
Monument Valley
Solving architectural puzzles is a mesmerizing task in developer Ustwo Games' Monument Valley. Players must guide Princess Ida through sacred geometry, which is composed of impossible objects and other types of optical illusions. Given each level's isometric view, the end goal is to interact with the structure until secret pathways are revealed.Monument Valley is a beautiful game where each level is inspired by minimalist artwork. Splashes of color guide the eye toward each level's central mechanics, making the puzzle-solving process feel like a product of player intuition. The game features 10 different mind-bending levels for players to master as they help Princess Ida escape her predicament.The puzzles continue in the sequel Monument Valley 2, and Netflix subscribers can play Monument Valley 3 which is only available to streaming service members, though they can play it for free.Release Date: April 3, 2014Platform: iOS App Store (iPhone, iPad), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Isometric puzzlerDeveloper: Ustwo Games
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
Mega Crit
Slay the Spire
Developer Mega Crit's Slay the Spire might be a deckbuilding roguelike, but it's not as zen as Balatro. In this game, players are tasked with fighting their way up procedurally generated floors of a tower, looting chests, beating down bosses and unlocking new collectible cards along the way. Dying sends you to the spire's base, where you'll need to begin your journey anew.A mix of relic abilities, potions and upgradable cards to shuffle into the deck add depth to the game's combat system. With each turn, players are afforded three energy points to attack enemies and defend themselves. Slay the Spire's gameplay revolves around the mental calculus of spending those points. Do you keep some defenses up as you lash out at your foes, or do you expend all your energy on one final gambit? The most skilled strategists will find new ways to max out the combat effectiveness of each character class as they dominate the spire.Release Date: Jan. 23, 2019Platform: iOS App Store (iPod, iPad, iPod Touch), Google Play Store (Android)Genre: Fantasy spellsword deckbuilder roguelikeDeveloper: Mega Crit
See at iOS App Store
See at Google Play Store
FAQs
What are the most popular mobile games?
Some of the most popular mobile games include Roblox, Candy Crush Saga, PUBG Mobile, Call of Duty Mobile and Among Us. These games have hundreds of millions of players worldwide.
What mobile game has the most active players?
Roblox has seen unmatched growth in the mobile gaming market, surpassing Candy Crush Saga as the game with the most active players. Roblox had more than 380 million monthly active players by the end of 2024, according to Priori Data analysts.
How can I play mobile games on PC?
There are several ways for PC gamers to play mobile games. Some of the most popular mobile games have PC ports on storefronts like Steam. Otherwise, emulators like BlueStacks 5 will allow you to run your desired mobile game on Microsoft Windows or macOS.
What is BlueStacks?
BlueStacks is the company responsible for creating the popular Android emulator BlueStacks 5 for PC gamers. This software allows PC gamers to run applications that would otherwise only be available on the Google Play store on their mobile device. Conversely, the BlueStacks X software is a cloud gaming software available for Android users. BlueStacks emulators are compatible with devices running Microsoft Windows or macOS.
How we determined CNET's best mobile gamesWhen creating this list of the best mobile games, we factored in how unique and enjoyable these games are for most players, from impressive graphics to novel gameplay to compelling narratives. Our picks cover a variety of genres from deckbuilding roguelikes to tower defenses to shooters to fantasy RPGs, and while we favored classic mobile experiences that take advantage of simple control schemes, we also included some can't-miss games that appear on multiple platforms. If you're looking for help choosing your next game, CNET's top mobile games list is a good place to start narrowing your choices.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.