Motherboard features most gamers don't care about
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
5 "must-have" motherboard features most gamers don't even think about
By
Tanveer Singh
Published 16 hours ago
After a 7-year corporate stint, Tanveer found his love for writing and tech too much to resist. An MBA in Marketing and the owner of a PC building business, he writes on PC hardware, technology, and Windows. When not scouring the web for ideas, he can be found building PCs, watching anime, or playing Smash Karts on his RTX 3080 (sigh).
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
The motherboard is perhaps the only PC component that involves sifting through tons of specs, reviews, and misinformation before confidently buying one. In contrast, buying a CPU, GPU, or SSD is incredibly straightforward since considerably fewer variables are involved. Out of the many motherboard features that people claim are indispensable, there are some that most gamers don't even look for. Enthusiasts and home lab users might swear by them, but they make little difference to an average gamer's experience.
5Gb (or 10Gb) Ethernet ports
I don't even need the 2.5Gb port I have
As newer chipsets arrive on the market, the threshold for what makes a decent motherboard keeps rising. Consumers get access to features on budget motherboards that were once considered premium, such as onboard Wi-Fi, M.2 heatsinks, PCIe 5.0, USB-C ports, and quick-release slots. That said, 5Gb Ethernet ports are still not as common as one might think, and that's fine. Gamers aren't rejecting motherboards for the lack of multi-gig Ethernet. The average internet speeds globally can't even saturate a 1GbE Ethernet connection, let alone a 2.5GbE or 5GbE one. Gaming generally benefits more from a wired connection than, say, streaming or casual browsing, but a 5GbE port is way past overkill for the majority of gamers. The only users who can legitimately use such high-bandwidth Ethernet ports are home lab and NAS users who need a high-speed local connection. The rest of us can easily last for a few more years with 2.5GbE ports that have now become the standard on most motherboards.
Dual BIOS
It's rather optional
Depending on your preference, updating your motherboard's BIOS might or might not be mandatory, but having BIOS flashback can still come in handy. All you need is a USB stick with the relevant BIOS file to recover your bricked motherboard, or update your BIOS without a CPU installed. This makes dual BIOS rather optional, and that's how most gamers treat it. Having a backup BIOS on your motherboard is convenient if you mess up the other one, but BIOS flashback is already up to the task. I haven't once looked for this feature when buying a motherboard in the last 25 years. BIOS flashback is invariably present on even the cheapest motherboards, so dual BIOS becomes a nice-to-have, rather than a must-have feature. If it's present on your motherboard, that's great; if not, you're not going to miss it.
Quad M.2 slots
A challenge to think of a use case
When it comes to storage, 2TB is the sweet spot for most gaming builds, and it's usually seen in the form of a 2TB Gen4 NVMe SSD. Another popular configuration is two 1TB SSDs occupying two M.2 slots, presumably after one runs out of space on a single but affordable 1TB drive. So, most people don't really need more than two M.2 slots on the motherboard. Even if you make a case for a third slot, motherboards with four M.2 slots are irrelevant for almost all gaming builds. Yes, professionals and productivity users always need more storage, but we're talking about gamers here. Many users on the internet might push you toward buying the motherboard that boasts the best I/O stack and has a minimum of four M.2 slots, but you know you'll never use them. Even when you eventually feel like adding a Gen5 SSD to your motherboard, you can relocate your Gen4 drive from the primary slot to a spare one. A motherboard with two or three slots will satisfy every use case you can conceive of, so it's okay to ignore boards with quad M.2 slots the next time you're in the market for a new one.
Extreme DDR5 speeds
It's a bit extreme to worry about this
While the frequency and timings of your RAM depend on multiple factors, you need support on the motherboard before you can think of running blazing-fast DDR5 kits. For most people buying DDR5-6000 kits, any motherboard will suffice, but faster kits are where the trouble begins. You need the Integrated Memory Controller (IMC) of the CPU to be able to handle those speeds, and the motherboard to support them as well. The reality is, however, gaming doesn't benefit a lot from DDR5-8000 or even DDR5-7200 kits — 6,000MT/s memory is still all you really need. This is why only a fraction of gamers are really after RAM speeds in the 7,000–8,000 range. Even the cheapest B650 mATX boards will usually support speeds of up to 7,200MT/s, provided your CPU can run them reliably. So, most people buying 6,000–6,400MT/s RAM don't need to worry about whether their motherboard will support those speeds. Hence, support for blazing-fast DDR5 RAM isn't top of the mind when gamers are shopping for a motherboard.
Overkill VRM design
What's in a VRM?
Finally, elaborate VRM designs with dozens of phases and oversized heatsinks are something that only overclockers and enthusiasts care about. These days, even budget motherboards come with a decent VRM solution packing 10, 12, or 14 phases, quality capacitors, and a reliable track record when it comes to VRM temperatures. This combination is all that most people need for their new builds. Motherboard manufacturers might boast overkill VRM designs in their marketing, but they're only talking to a small niche of users. Even if you're running a 24x7 overclock on your 6-core or 8-core gaming CPU, you're unlikely to require $300–$500 motherboards to sustain it. Most people can still manage almost all gaming and overclocking use cases with a $200 motherboard. This is why gamers look for features like a robust I/O stack, adequate expansion slots, and M.2 heatsinks before diving into the details of the VRM design.
Most gamers don't obsess over motherboards
Unlike a small percentage of users, most people building gaming PCs only care about a select few features before buying a motherboard. The supposedly "must-have" items on an enthusiast's list never make it to the consideration set of an average user. Modern motherboards don't affect an average user's experience as much as they used to, provided one is not buying sub-$100 models. Almost all motherboards priced around $130–$150 (and higher) are good enough for anything most gamers will ever do on their systems.
Other Hardware
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
1 day ago
I let Perplexity guide my graphic design workflow, and the results were surprising
1 day ago
You don’t need to spend too much money to start your home lab - here’s how you can do so for cheap
2 days ago
This container and network visualiser is a must-install for every Docker user
Today's best deals
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
1 hour ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
4 hours ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
5 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
If you really love Hollow Knight: Silksong, you have to play these challenging metroidvania games as well
This open-source project turns old PCs into voice controllers for Home Assistant - and it's completely free
This overlooked Mac app helped me double my productivity
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.