GitHub - firebase/genkit: Open-source framework for building AI-powered apps in JavaScript, Go, and Python, built and used in production by Google
Skip to content
Navigation Menu
Toggle navigation
Sign in
Appearance settings
Platform
GitHub Copilot
Write better code with AI
GitHub Spark
New
Build and deploy intelligent apps
GitHub Models
New
Manage and compare prompts
GitHub Advanced Security
Find and fix vulnerabilities
Actions
Automate any workflow
Codespaces
Instant dev environments
Issues
Plan and track work
Code Review
Manage code changes
Discussions
Collaborate outside of code
Code Search
Find more, search less
Explore
Why GitHub
Documentation
GitHub Skills
Blog
Integrations
GitHub Marketplace
View all features
Solutions
By company size
Enterprises
Small and medium teams
Startups
Nonprofits
By use case
DevSecOps
DevOps
CI/CD
View all use cases
By industry
Healthcare
Financial services
Manufacturing
Government
View all industries
View all solutions
Resources
Topics
AI
DevOps
Security
Software Development
View all
Explore
Learning Pathways
Events & Webinars
Ebooks & Whitepapers
Customer Stories
Partners
Executive Insights
Open Source
GitHub Sponsors
Fund open source developers
The ReadME Project
GitHub community articles
Repositories
Topics
Trending
Collections
Enterprise
Enterprise platform
AI-powered developer platform
Available add-ons
GitHub Advanced Security
Enterprise-grade security features
Copilot for business
Enterprise-grade AI features
Premium Support
Enterprise-grade 24/7 support
Pricing
Search or jump to...
Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests...
Search
Clear
Search syntax tips
Provide feedback
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously.
Include my email address so I can be contacted
Cancel
Submit feedback
Saved searches
Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly
Name
Query
To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.
Cancel
Create saved search
Sign in
Sign up
Appearance settings
Resetting focus
You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
Dismiss alert
firebase
/
genkit
Public
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Fork
413
Star
3.6k
Open-source framework for building AI-powered apps in JavaScript, Go, and Python, built and used in production by Google
genkit.dev
License
Apache-2.0 license
3.6k
stars
413
forks
Branches
Tags
Activity
Star
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Code
Issues
533
Pull requests
133
Actions
Projects
1
Security
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Insights
Additional navigation options
Code
Issues
Pull requests
Actions
Projects
Security
Insights
firebase/genkit
mainBranchesTagsGo to fileCodeOpen more actions menuFolders and filesNameNameLast commit messageLast commit dateLatest commit History4,267 Commits.github.github  .hooks.hooks  binbin  docsdocs  genkit-toolsgenkit-tools  gogo  jsjs  pypy  samplessamples  scriptsscripts  teststests  .editorconfig.editorconfig  .gitignore.gitignore  .npmrc.npmrc  .prettierignore.prettierignore  .prettierrc.yaml.prettierrc.yaml  COMMIT_MESSAGE_TEMPLATECOMMIT_MESSAGE_TEMPLATE  CONTRIBUTING.mdCONTRIBUTING.md  LICENSELICENSE  README.mdREADME.md  biome.jsonbiome.json  captainhook.jsoncaptainhook.json  package.jsonpackage.json  pnpm-lock.yamlpnpm-lock.yaml  taplo.tomltaplo.toml  View all filesRepository files navigationREADMECode of conductContributingApache-2.0 licenseSecurity
Genkit is an open-source framework for building full-stack AI-powered applications, built and used in production by Google's Firebase. It provides SDKs for multiple programming languages with varying levels of stability:
JavaScript/TypeScript: Production-ready with full feature support
Go: Production-ready with full feature support
Python (Alpha): Early development with core functionality
It offers a unified interface for integrating AI models from providers like Google, OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, and more. Rapidly build and deploy production-ready chatbots, automations, and recommendation systems using streamlined APIs for multimodal content, structured outputs, tool calling, and agentic workflows.
Get started with just a few lines of code:
import { genkit } from 'genkit';
import { googleAI } from '@genkit-ai/google-genai';
const ai = genkit({ plugins: [googleAI()] });
const { text } = await ai.generate({
model: googleAI.model('gemini-2.5-flash'),
prompt: 'Why is Firebase awesome?'
});
Explore & build with Genkit
Play with AI sample apps, with visualizations of the Genkit code that powers
them, at no cost to you.
Explore Genkit by Example
Key capabilities
Broad AI model support
Use a unified interface to integrate with hundreds of models from providers like Google,
OpenAI,
Anthropic, Ollama, and more. Explore, compare, and use the best models for your needs.
Simplified AI development
Use streamlined APIs to build AI features with
structured output, agentic tool calling, context-aware generation, multi-modal input/output, and more. Genkit handles the complexity of AI development, so you can build and iterate faster.
Web and mobile ready
Integrate seamlessly with frameworks and platforms including Next.js, React, Angular, iOS, Android, using purpose-built client SDKs and helpers.
Cross-language support
Build with the language that best fits your project. Genkit provides SDKs for JavaScript/TypeScript, Go, and Python (Alpha) with consistent APIs and capabilities across all supported languages.
Deploy anywhere
Deploy AI logic to any environment that supports your chosen programming language, such as Cloud Functions for Firebase,
Google Cloud Run, or third-party platforms,
with or without Google services.
Developer tools
Accelerate AI development with a purpose-built, local CLI and Developer UI. Test prompts and
flows against individual inputs or datasets, compare outputs from different models, debug with detailed execution traces, and use immediate visual feedback to iterate rapidly on prompts.
Production monitoring
Ship AI features with confidence using comprehensive production monitoring. Track model performance, and request volumes, latency, and error rates in a
purpose-built dashboard. Identify issues quickly with detailed observability metrics, and ensure your AI features meet quality and performance targets in real-world usage.
How does it work?
Genkit simplifies AI integration with an open-source SDK and unified APIs that
work across various model providers and programming languages. It abstracts away complexity so you can focus on delivering great user experiences.
Some key features offered by Genkit include:
Text and image generation
Type-safe, structured data generation
Tool calling
Prompt templating
Persisted chat interfaces
AI workflows
AI-powered data retrieval (RAG)
Genkit is designed for server-side deployment in multiple language environments, and also provides seamless client-side integration through dedicated helpers and client SDKs.
Implementation path
1
Choose your language and model provider
Select the Genkit SDK for your preferred language (JavaScript/TypeScript, Go, or Python (Alpha)). Choose a model provider like Google Gemini or Anthropic, and get an API key. Some providers, like Vertex AI, may rely on a different means of authentication.
2
Install the SDK and initialize
Install the Genkit SDK, model-provider package of your choice, and the Genkit CLI. Import the Genkit and provider packages and initialize Genkit with the provider API key.
3
Write and test AI features
Use the Genkit SDK to build AI features for your use case, from basic text generation to complex multi-step workflows and agents. Use the CLI and Developer UI to help you rapidly test and iterate.
4
Deploy and monitor
Deploy your AI features to Firebase, Google Cloud Run, or any environment that supports your chosen programming language. Integrate them into your app, and monitor them in production in the Firebase console.
Get started
JavaScript/TypeScript quickstart
Go quickstart
Python quickstart (Alpha)
Development tools
Genkit provides a CLI and a local UI to streamline your AI development workflow.
CLI
The Genkit CLI includes commands for running and evaluating your Genkit functions (flows) and collecting telemetry and logs.
Install: npm install -g genkit-cli
Run a command, wrapped with telemetry, a interactive developer UI, etc: genkit start -- <command to run your code>
Developer UI
The Genkit developer UI is a local interface for testing, debugging, and iterating on your AI application.
Key features:
Run: Execute and experiment with Genkit flows, prompts, queries, and more in dedicated playgrounds.
Inspect: Analyze detailed traces of past executions, including step-by-step breakdowns of complex flows.
Evaluate: Review the results of evaluations run against your flows, including performance metrics and links to relevant traces.
Try Genkit in Firebase Studio
Want to skip the local setup? Click below to try out Genkit using Firebase Studio, Google's AI-assisted workspace for full-stack app development in the cloud.
Connect with us
Join us on Discord – Get help, share
ideas, and chat with other developers.
Contribute on GitHub – Report
bugs, suggest features, or explore the source code.
Contribute to Documentation and Samples – Report
issues in Genkit's documentation, or contribute to the samples.
Contributing
Contributions to Genkit are welcome and highly appreciated! See our Contribution Guide to get started.
Authors
Genkit is built by Firebase with contributions from the Open Source Community.
About
Open-source framework for building AI-powered apps in JavaScript, Go, and Python, built and used in production by Google
genkit.dev
Topics
ai
agents
multimodal
rag
vector-database
embedders
llm
genkit
Resources
Readme
License
Apache-2.0 license
Code of conduct
Code of conduct
Contributing
Contributing
Security policy
Security policy
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Activity
Custom properties
Stars
3.6k
stars
Watchers
54
watching
Forks
413
forks
Report repository
Releases
115
Genkit Go v1.0.3
Latest
Sep 15, 2025
+ 114 releases
Packages
0
No packages published
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Contributors
113
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
+ 99 contributors
Languages
TypeScript
55.8%
Go
23.7%
Python
18.7%
Shell
1.6%
JavaScript
0.2%
CSS
0.0%
Footer
© 2025 GitHub, Inc.
Footer navigation
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Docs
Contact
Manage cookies
Do not share my personal information
You can’t perform that action at this time.