Could 5G Home Internet Be Your Household Broadband Solution? - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test ISPs
HomeHome Internet Broadband
Could 5G Home Internet Be Your Household Broadband Solution?
Are your home internet options limited? Or perhaps you're just tired of your current provider? Here's what 5G home internet can do for you.
Trey Paul Former Senior Editor Trey Paul was a CNET senior editor covering broadband. His 20+ years of experience as a writer and editor include time at the broadband marketplace Allconnect, as well as working with clients like Yahoo!, Google, The New York Times and Choice Hotels. An avid movie fan, Trey's career includes being a film and TV critic while pursuing a degree in New York. Expertise Home internet and broadband, including plans, providers, internet speeds and connection types. Movies and film studies. Credentials Master's degree in Cinema Studies from NYU and interviews with Conan O'Brien, Stan Lee and some of his biggest Star Trek childhood idols
See full bio
Trey Paul
July 16, 2025
4:00 a.m. PT 9 min read
Viva Tung/CNET
Internet service providers are a frequent source of stress and notoriously one of the country's lowest-rated industries. ISPs rank lower than social media, the US Postal Service and even airlines. It's easy to see why. A recent CNET survey found 63% of Americans paid more for internet service last year than they had the year before. On top of that, wading through confusing details like hidden fees, yearly price hikes, contracts, service details and multiple speed tiers can make for a frustrating experience.Rural Americans know even more acutely how difficult it can be to find a good ISP. Depending on their location and address, some may feel there are hardly any options at all. It would be a real step forward if 5G could emerge as a viable broadband option for traditionally underserved parts of rural America. As CNET alum Rick Broida put it after he tested T-Mobile's service, "Imperfection is a lot more tolerable when you're paying less than half what you were before." To that point, according to a recent J.D. Power report, 5G home internet can be a cheaper and more accessible internet connection type than cable or fiber. It may not produce the fastest speeds, but customers are willing to overlook that. CNET has reviewed all the primary 5G home internet services, and we have the details on how they work, what speeds you can expect, what it costs and where it's available.
Locating local internet providers
What is 5G home internet? Simply put, 5G stands for the fifth generation. The fifth generation of what? It's the fifth generation of wireless data networks. You're probably most familiar with hearing 5G used to describe better mobile communications and speedier phones. You're not wrong: 5G networks, which use different radio frequencies than previous generations, aim to provide faster data speeds with much less lag or delay than we had with 4G. However, while 5G cellular service might be available on your phone, 5G home internet is not as widely available.Is 5G home internet fast?My former CNET colleague Eli Blumenthal did a great job of breaking down the basics of 5G. Millimeter-wave technology uses higher frequencies than previous generations, providing faster speeds and connections. Those higher gigabit speeds come with a price: the data doesn't travel the same distance as 4G and has more trouble with obstructions. To combat that, midband technology, which offers speeds averaging between 300 and 400 megabits per second, increases the coverage area provided by millimeter-wave. Finally, low-band 5G offers a range similar to 4G but speeds between 100 and 200Mbps.
Locating local internet providers
Are 5G home internet and 5GHz the same? Nope. One common mistake is to see the "5GHz" setting on your Wi-Fi router and assume you have access to 5G. Wi-Fi routers also use short-range radio frequencies (typically either 2.4GHz or 5GHz) to transmit your internet signal to connected devices within your home. 5GHz might be one of the band options for your home's Wi-Fi system, but it's not the same as 5G, a cellular technology that uses higher-frequency waves.
Cable, DSL and fiber internet plans require wires connecting your home to the provider's grid. Fixed wireless services, like 5G, connect your home to a provider's network over the air. Taylor Martin/CNETWhy does 5G home internet stand out? Most ISPs deliver internet service via phone lines or cables connecting your home to a more extensive network. This includes common internet connection types like digital subscriber lines (DSL), coaxial cable and fiber-optic internet, which are all wired connections from your provider to your home. 5G home internet, on the other hand, is a fixed wireless internet service, which means that the connection between your provider and your home is not wired. With 5G, you will need an indoor or outdoor 5G receiver at your house to pick up the signal. It's similar to satellite internet, but instead of beaming in a signal from satellites orbiting in the night sky, it's relaying information from a much closer wireless hub. Although you're using the same 5G network as your mobile phone, the gateway is specific to your location and cannot be used elsewhere.Which providers offer 5G home internet?5G is still being deployed across the country. Therefore, the number of providers offering any 5G home internet plan is relatively limited. Your 5G home internet options are AT&T Internet Air, Starry, T-Mobile and Verizon. All prices listed on this page reflect available discounts for setting up paperless billing. If you decide not to go with automatic monthly payments, your monthly bill will be higher. Now, let's explore what each offers.
AT&T Internet Air
Price range $60 per monthSpeed range 75-225MbpsConnection Fixed WirelessKey Info Equipment included, no contracts, no overage fees
AT&T Internet Air uses AT&T's 5G wireless network and features download speeds between 90 and 300Mbps. The setup process is as simple as plugging in your router, setting up the Wi-Fi network and figuring out the best location in your home. CNET's broadband expert Joe Supan discovered this at home, taking him only 11 minutes to set up. When it comes to latency, AT&T Internet Air is on par with T-Mobile, Starry and Verizon, featuring a latency between 30 to 65ms. The straightforward pricing (just one plan for $60 or $47 when bundled with an eligible AT&T wireless plan), terms of service and decent speeds make Internet Air a reliable option for many customers with access to it. The Internet Air router is included in your monthly cost, so there's no additional equipment or installation fee. AT&T offers mesh Wi-Fi extenders for an additional $10 monthly for improved connection. There are no overage fees, data caps or contracts. What AT&T Internet Air lacks, however, is the same availability as its competitors. Although it's available across 48 states, many of those locations boast equal availability for AT&T's fiber internet option, which outpaces fixed wireless in terms of fast, reliable speeds and cost per Mbps. Read our AT&T Internet Air review.
See at AT&T
AT&T Internet Air plans and pricing
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details
AT&T Internet Air Read full review $60 ($47 with an eligible
AT&T wireless plan)90-300Mbps down, 8-30Mbps upNo equipment fees, overage fees or contracts
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Starry Internet
Price range $30 - $80 per monthSpeed range 50 - 1,000MbpsConnection Fixed wirelessKey Info Unlimited data, no contracts, no equipment fees, simple setup
Starry Internet is technically 5G adjacent. It doesn't use 5G NR radio technology, which is a focus of mobile providers. Still, it does use millimeter-wave technology as a critical aspect of delivering fixed wireless home internet to customers. "We operate in 24GHz and 37GHz spectrum bands, and our network technology is the same across all our markets," a Starry spokesperson said.The monthly price includes unlimited data, free equipment and installation and no contracts. It's also the only 5G home internet provider listed here that features symmetrical or near-symmetrical download and upload speeds similar to those found with fiber internet service.Lastly, Starry also offers a "30-Day Happy Interneting Guarantee" with a full refund if you aren't satisfied with the service and cancel within the first 30 days. Starry is focused on five markets: Boston, Denver, Los Angeles, New York City and Washington, DC. Read our Starry Internet review.
See at Starry
Starry Internet plans and pricing
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details
Starry Connect Read full review $1530Mbps download, 30Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts Starry 100 Read full review $30100Mbps download, 50Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts Starry 200 Read full review $40200Mbps download, 50Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts Starry 300 Read full review $45300Mbps download, 50Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts Starry 500 Read full review $55500Mbps download, 250Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts Starry 800
Read full review $70800 download, 250Mbps No equipment fees, data caps or contracts Starry 1 Gig
Read full review $851,000Mbps download, 50Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts
Show more (2 items)
Shop providers at my address
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet
Price range $50 - $70 per monthSpeed range 87 - 415MbpsConnection Fixed wirelessKey Info Unlimited data, equipment included, no contracts
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet used to offer only a single tier. Now, with its latest boost in speeds, customers can choose between three plan tiers. The speed ranges from 87 to 415Mbps in downloads.
T-Mobile "anticipates" that 25% of customers can see speeds below and 25% can see speeds above these ranges, per the company's FAQ section. That said, having a 5G connection means that your speeds can ultimately vary due to different factors. CNET's Amanda Kooser tried out T-Mobile's service and found that her speeds were often inconsistent. T-Mobile's service includes all setup fees and taxes, and there's no annual contract or data cap.
Read our T-Mobile 5G Home Internet review.
See at T-Mobile
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet plans and pricing
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsService details
T-Mobile Rely Internet Read full review $50 ($35 for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max mobile customers)87-318Mbps download, 14-56Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts
T-Mobile Amplified Internet Read full review $60 ($45 for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max mobile customers)133-415Mbps download, 12-55Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts
T-Mobile All-In Internet Read full review $70 ($55 for eligible Go5G Plus and Magenta Max mobile customers)133-415Mbps download, 12-55Mbps uploadNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Verizon 5G Home Internet
Price range $50 - $70 per month Speed range 85 - 1,000MbpsConnection Fixed wirelessKey Info Unlimited data, no contracts, free equipment
Verizon's 5G internet service, which uses Ultra Wideband 5G technology, boasts maximum download speeds of up to 1 gigabit and average speeds of around 300Mbps. Upload speeds are not symmetrical and will plateau at 50Mbps or less because Verizon does not exclusively use millimeter-wave technology, but rather a mix of low-band, mid-band and millimeter-wave.Verizon 5G Home Internet pricing is $50 a month for 50 to 300Mbps or $70 monthly for 85 to 1,000Mbps, plus some extra perks. Unlike most ISPs, you can expect a two to three-year price lock. Either way, it's an all-in price that includes equipment, setup fees and taxes. Like all other Verizon plans, it requires no contracts or data caps.Verizon offers many promos and deals to sweeten the pot for potential customers. First, plans come with a price lock. In addition, if you switch to Verizon, eligible customers can receive an early termination fee credit of up to $500. Second, 5G Home Plus customers can choose either $400 off select Samsung products or get a free JBL PartyBox On-The-Go. Lastly, customers with qualifying Verizon mobile plans will get a discount on the monthly cost of either plan, bringing them down to $35 or $55 monthly. Read our Verizon 5G Home Internet review.
See at Verizon
Verizon 5G Home Internet plans and pricing
PlanMonthly priceMax
speedsFees and service details
Verizon 5G Home Read full review $50 ($35 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans)300Mbps download, 20Mbps uploadUnlimited data, no contracts or equipment fees Verizon 5G Home Plus Read full review $70 ($55 with qualifying Verizon 5G mobile plans)1,000Mbps download, 75Mbps uploadUnlimited data, no contracts or equipment fees
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Who can get 5G home internet?Let's not sugarcoat this: 5G home internet service is not yet available everywhere. While the list of cities seems to expand nearly every month, most are larger US cities. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet is the most widely available service among the three highlighted providers, with coverage of 60%, according to the FCC. While Verizon's 5G home internet service is now available to 40 million homes, T-Mobile leapfrogged that by expanding its fixed wireless service to over 50 million households. Still, T-Mobile acknowledges it does not have unlimited availability across those locations due to network capacity. Verizon's 5G Home Internet is currently offered in approximately 900 markets or 19% of the country. Although the total number of households in which it is available is less than T-Mobile's, it does cover more cities.AT&T Internet Air is not quite as widely available as T-Mobile Home Internet or Verizon 5G Home Internet. The service is still slowly expanding but making decent progress, available to nearly 100 locations in 48 states and covers just over 14% of the country.Starry Internet is available in Boston, Denver, Los Angeles, New York City and Washington, DC serving only 1% of the country, according to the FCC.So, is 5G home internet for you? The first thing to say is what we always say regarding ISPs: No matter how good the service, it's all moot if it's unavailable at your address. 5G technology is still being rolled out nationwide, so we should expect to see some bumps in the road as that effort continues. Still, 5G home internet availability is increasing at a pretty rapid pace. The affordable, straightforward pricing is vastly appealing and it's what jumps off the page for me. Time will tell if that trend holds as availability continues to expand. 5G home internet FAQs
Is 5G home internet cheaper than other connection types?
5G home internet is one of the more affordable options available considering the decent download speeds that current plans average. T-Mobile averages just over 100Mbps, Starry chimes in at 200Mbps and Verizon's median speed is 300Mbps. The lowest monthly cost among the three main providers is $15 (Starry's low-cost option) and the highest is $70 (T-Mobile and Verizon 5G Home Internet Plus without the mobile discount). Each provider's monthly costs include all fees, taxes, equipment and installation charges. So the monthly charge you see is the monthly charge you pay. Lastly, none require term contracts, so you won't have to fear any early termination fees.
Is 5G fast enough for home internet?
In theory, 5G should enable a speedy connection that will match or improve what you get with cable or fiber internet. That's usually not the case regarding the reality of 5G home internet. To increase the reliability and coverage of the 5G internet service, most providers rely on a mix of millimeter-wave, low-band and midband technology -- as well as 4G LTE in some cases -- and this means home internet customers won't see the real high-end capabilities of 5G at present. You should see well over the average speeds of your typical DSL and satellite internet plans.
What does the 'G' stand for in 5G?
It simply means generation. In other words, 5G is the fifth generation of cellular technology.
What's the difference between 5G home internet and cable internet?
Cable internet relies on wires to transmit data from a central hub into your home. 5G home internet is a fixed wireless solution that uses an internet gateway to connect your home using radio frequencies to connect to a cell tower or data hub nearby. If you're not sure about which internet connection type is better suited for your home, read our guide on the different connection types.
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.