Science - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Tech
Science
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Photos show what life is like on the International Space Station, from sleeping arrangements to haircuts
10 min read
See the most detailed images ever taken of Titanic's wreckage, which was discovered 40 years ago
7 min read
The Titanic wreckage was found 40 years ago during a secret US Navy mission to recover nuclear submarines
The Titanic, which sank in 1912, was found on September 1, 1985, during a Navy search for two missing nuclear submarines.
3 min read
He knew Greenland's melting ice better than anyone. Then he disappeared into it.
New details about the mysterious disappearance of Konrad 'Koni' Steffen, a pioneering climate scientist, who vanished on Greenland's melting ice sheet, raising urgent questions about climate change's dangers.
14 min read
The Silicon Valley leaders who have experimented with psychedelics
Silicon Valley has a long history with psychedelics, and some of its best-known leaders have partaken, including Bill Gates and Sam Altman.
5 min read
A century ago, the government hired unemployed young men to build America's forests, trails, and parks. Photos show FDR's 'tree army.'
During the Great Depression, Franklin Roosevelt created a tree army. Civilians planted trees, built dams, and transformed state and national parks.
19 min read
70 years ago, a meteorite landed on an Alabama woman as she took a nap. Here's the strange story of Ann Hodges.
In June, a man in Georgia narrowly missed being hit by a meteorite. In 1954, a woman actually was.
9 min read
Astronauts and scientists explain why living in space is almost impossible
Despite all the buzz around space tourism and giant rockets that can get us to the moon and beyond, life in space is still a long shot. Here's why.
9 min read
80 years ago, the US dropped an atomic bomb on Hiroshima. Haunting photos show what happened that day in 1945.
On August 6, 1945, a 10-foot-long uranium bomb called "Little Boy" was dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima.
8 min read
Why living in space is almost impossible
Explore the unsolved problems with space habitation as experts discuss radiation, gravity, and building bases on the Moon, Mars, and beyond.
Flying is about to become even more miserable
Delays, bumpy rides, and even the cost of flying could get worse as the climate crisis escalates.
8 min read
A mega-earthquake could strike the Pacific Northwest any day — and we're not prepared
A huge earthquake and tsunami will someday hit the Pacific Northwest. Predictions of the "Big One" are terrifying, and the government is not prepared.
8 min read
Vintage photos show how American cities looked before the EPA regulated water and air pollution
Federal actions like the 1970 Clean Air Act and the 1972 Clean Water Act helped regulate water and air pollution.
10 min read
NASA veterans say political pressure and slashed funding are destroying mankind's ability to go on future missions
In a letter to NASA's interim chief, Sean Duffy, the group slammed "wasteful changes" that undermine NASA's core mission.
2 min read
Priscilla Chan's recruiting pitch? We can't pay as well as tech companies, but we've got GPUs
Mark Zuckerberg's wife, Priscilla Chan, said GPUs are key to recruiting for the couple's philanthropic organization, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
2 min read
What happened when the Trinity test bomb detonated, from the creation of green glass to fallout that drifted over 1,000 miles
The Manhattan Project's Trinity test bomb detonated on July 16, 1945. The light, noise, shockwave, and fallout cloud were impossible to keep secret.
10 min read
Meet Jared Isaacman, the billionaire CEO and SpaceX astronaut whose name has come up in the Musk-Trump feud
Jared Isaacman is a high-school-dropout-turned-billionaire who was once nominated to lead NASA. Now he's been dragged into Trump and Musk's feud.
9 min read
The CEO of a key SpaceX rival says customers are drawn to his company because it's 'even-keeled'
With Elon Musk on the political outskirts, Rocket Lab CEO Peter Beck told BI customers value his company's simple focus on rockets and satellites.
3 min read
AI is learning how animals talk to each other, and could someday help humans talk to animals
Researchers are using large language models to decode the communication patterns of animals.
3 min read
The hottest temperature ever recorded in every state
A heat wave is underway across parts of the country, but some states had their hottest day on record decades ago.
5 min read
Starship's 4th straight rocket explosion is the latest public setback for Musk's Mars dreams
SpaceX's flagship Starship model suffered its fourth explosion this year. NASA expects the company to put astronauts on the moon by 2027.
3 min read
26 photos of the worst hurricanes to have hit the US
In 2024, Hurricane Helene brought catastrophic rainfall to North Carolina, causing flooding and landslides.
9 min read
How the Smithsonian safeguards 148 million specimens
We went behind the scenes to see how the museum is digitizing its entire collection and building a DNA library to help solve real-world problems.
CEO of space company Axiom breaks down what a $70 million ticket gets you
Axiom's crewed missions visit the International Space Station for about two weeks of extensive research work, where "every minute is accounted for."
7 min read
Elon Musk threatened, then walked back a decision to 'decommission' SpaceX's Dragon spacecraft after Trump hit out at his businesses
Elon Musk said SpaceX would decommission its Dragon spacecraft "immediately" after Trump threatened his government contracts in their online feud.
3 min read
Starship fumbled its 3rd flight in a row. It's another setback for Elon Musk.
SpaceX's Starship failed its third attempt to put cargo into Earth's orbit, spinning out of control and breaking apart again.
5 min read
15 bizarre creatures from the bottom of the ocean that look like aliens
To survive the deep ocean, sea creatures need all kinds of adaptations that give them alien-like appearances, like huge eyes and needle-like teeth.
10 min read
The historical figures who inspired Nvidia's product names, from Grace Hopper to David Blackwell
Nvidia chips take their names from pioneering figures in STEM fields like mathematics and computer science.
4 min read
young geniuses
A 17-year-old designed a cheaper, more efficient drone. The Department of Defense just awarded him $23,000 for it.
Cooper Taylor built a drone with an innovative tilt mechanism that eliminates the need for extra motors. He hopes to make drones cheaper.
5 min read
Nuclear engineers want the industry to get 'unstuck' after years of bad PR. The AI boom could be the key.
Nuclear engineers told BI that Big Tech's investments could propel nuclear out of a slump. Others are skeptical about buzzy "small modular reactors."
8 min read
14 of the most significant archaeological sites in the US
The US' history goes back thousands of years, thanks to a wealth of archaeological sites that give insight into the first humans in North America.
12 min read
Blue Origin's next crew includes entrepreneurs and founders. Here's who's following Katy Perry and Lauren Sánchez into space.
Blue Origin's next crew includes business figures and entrepreneurs after the high-profile mission featuring Katy Perry and Lauren Sánchez.
3 min read
9 stunning natural mysteries scientists can't fully explain
Scientists have hypotheses about some of nature's biggest mysteries but are still working on proof. Some beautiful phenomena can't be explained yet.
8 min read
Photos show the eruption of Mount St. Helens, the worst volcanic disaster in US history, 45 years ago
In 1980, Mount St. Helens erupted, killing dozens and forever changing how the US monitors earthquakes. The volcano is still active but not erupting.
9 min read
Andrea, Jerry, Wendy: Here's what hurricanes will be named in 2025
The National Hurricane Center chooses storms' names in advance. This year's list of hurricane names includes Karen, Pablo, Wendy, Chantal, and Dexter.
3 min read
young geniuses
A 19-year-old won $100,000 for inventing a cheaper, faster way to make antiviral drugs out of corn husks
Adam Kovalčík figured out how to make an antiviral drug for a fraction of the normal cost, using an alcohol from corn husks.
4 min read
15 vintage photos show what New York City looked like before the US regulated pollution
Pollution regulations began after the Environmental Protection Agency formed in 1970. The Trump administration has recently announced plans to cut back on EPA funding.
6 min read
A doctor who studies toxic chemicals explains why he avoids paper receipts at the store
Many receipts contain the chemical BPS, which can absorb through your skin when you hold a receipt paper.
4 min read
The American brain drain has arrived. Just ask these scientists.
"There is no opportunity here anymore, and I don't want to waste my time," said a scientist who is studying Alzheimer's and moving to Germany.
6 min read
I study microplastics and toxic chemicals. That's why my family doesn't wear shoes in the house.
Outside, your shoes can pick up microplastics and toxic street runoff. Tracey Woodruff's research convinced her to stop wearing shoes inside the home.
3 min read
The biggest cities in the US are sinking, a study found. The phenomenon could tilt buildings and damage infrastructure.
Cities including Seattle, San Diego, and Chicago are all sinking, a new study found.
4 min read
32 vintage photos reveal what Los Angeles looked like before the US regulated pollution
Before the EPA, the US environment was not federally protected. Vintage photos show Los Angeles before regulations limited the damage.
8 min read
A Soviet spacecraft is set to fall back to Earth in the next week. Nobody knows where it will land.
The Kosmos 482 capsule was built tough for Venus. Its fall to Earth will make a huge fireball and may pose a small risk of hitting people or property.
3 min read
Europe aims to lure US scientists with a $566 million fund and calls education cuts a 'gigantic miscalculation'
Trump has aggressively slashed education funding in his first three months in the White House, leading some to fear a "brain drain" from US academia.
3 min read
The first nonverbal patient to receive Elon Musk's Neuralink shares a video he edited and narrated using his brain chip
Brad Smith is the third person in the world to get a brain chip implant with Elon Musk's Neuralink, and the first nonverbal ALS patient to do so.
3 min read
13 coastal cities in the US that are slowly sinking
Cities from New York to Houston are sinking into the ground little by little, putting an estimated $109 billion of property at risk of flooding.
5 min read
I study toxic microplastics. Here's how I protect myself and my kids at home.
Tracey Woodruff studies how microplastics and plastic chemicals affect human health. She's cutting plastic out of her home in some unexpected ways.
5 min read
This startup says it's made the first biodegradable sneaker — and that others are fake
A startup says it's made the world's first fully biodegradable sneaker in an industry rife with greenwashing. We put seven shoe brands to the test.
young geniuses
An award-winning invention by 3 teens could help get plastic out of shipping boxes. They want to pitch to Amazon and Home Depot.
A new cardboard design by three New York teenagers, inspired by kirigami, could help make plastic-free shipping a reality. It just won a $12,500 prize.
5 min read
Stroke patients have high levels of microplastics in the plaque clogging their arteries, researchers find
Microplastics discovered in life-threatening arterial plaque are associated with strokes. A new study found altered gene activity, too.
4 min read
View more
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.