Why I recommend this Samsung QLED TV over its pricier OLED model - and don't regret it | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Home Entertainment
TVs
Why I recommend this Samsung QLED TV over its pricier OLED model - and don't regret it
Samsung's flagship QLED TV, the QN90F, performs well in our streaming and gaming tests, making it a great value for the holiday season.
Written by
Taylor Clemons, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 23, 2025 at 7:49 a.m. PT
Samsung QN90F TV
ZDNET's key takeaways The QN90F TV has excellent picture and sound. It's great for streaming and entertainment, with useful display settings and features in tow. Not ideal for rhythm or precision platforming games due to response times. View now at Best Buy Best tv deals of the week
75-inch TCL QM6K 4K QD-Mini LED Google TV (2025 Model):  $850 (save $150)
85-inch Samsung Q60D Series 4K QLED Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,200 (save $498)
65-inch LG C4 Series 4K 120Hz OLED Evo Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,297 (save $1,403)
65-inch Samsung S90D Series 4K OLED 144Hz Smart TV (2024 Model):  $1,298 (save $400)
75-inch Sony Bravia XR X90L 4K Full Array LED Smart TV (2023 Model):  $1,198 (save $602) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I recently got the chance to work in the ZDNET Louisville testing lab, where I tested the Samsung QN90F and saw how it performed in real-world tests rather than a carefully curated showroom experience. Compared to the S95F OLED, the Samsung QN90F has a picture that's almost as vibrant and detailed, as well as slightly better object-tracking sound. Also: The best Samsung TVs you can buyFor the price, it's a better value unless you're looking for features that only the S95F OLED has, such as the OneConnect box. I ran the Samsung QN90F through a battery of tests to see how well it handled everything from streaming to gaming. I also worked with our lab engineers to run Calman verification tests to see how accurately the QLED panel can recreate images in both RGB and black-and-white.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Samsung QN90F The Samsung QN90F offers picture and audio quality comparable to that of the S95F OLED, with AI-assisted upscaling and object-tracking sound.
details
View at Best Buy Unlike the S90F, which had a significant blue shift in its color tests, the QN90F favors warmer tones. This can make some scenes look a bit oversaturated, and this can be exacerbated by the integrated blue light filter that can be toggled on and off. But I would personally rather have that than how lifeless they can look on screens that favor cooler colors. The warm color shift was most noticeable while screening black-and-white films like Casablanca, pushing everything toward a more pale sepia tone that somehow felt more appropriate than the blue-grey of the S95F.Read more: I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TVThe contrast is also fairly comparable to the more expensive OLED model, giving you deep blacks and sharp details that help brighter colors pop. The QLED panel handles fine details well across all picture modes, though the AI-assisted option does make some images look slightly fuzzy, especially if there are characters moving quickly, or a lot of quick cut edits. But where the QN90F really stands out when compared to the S95F OLED is the audio.
Adam Breeden/ZDNETI'm not sure if it's due to how razor-thin the S95F is, but the audio never sounded as full or as 3D as it could have been. The QN90F is still a thin TV, but by having more room to actually create sound, you'll get a slightly richer listening experience even without having to set up extra home audio equipment. I compared both TVs by playing a few movie musicals, Persona rhythm games, and a host of music albums, and the QN90F always came out on top when it came to sound quality. Also: Changing these 6 settings on my Samsung TV greatly improved the performanceWhen it comes to gaming, the Samsung QN90F has the same dedicated dashboard as other Samsung TVs, which allows you to adjust input latency, refresh rates, and dedicated gaming picture modes to suit your favorite genres. The input latency was fine for most shooters and action games I play, like Ghost of Tsushima and Judgement.
Adam Breeden/ZDNETBut when it comes to rhythm or platforming titles, it can get a bit frustrating, as even with the lowest possible latency option, there's a delay that you can feel, if not always see. Not enough to cause frustration or any significant issues, but it is something to keep in mind if you're doing something like an official speedrun.My biggest complaint about the QN90F is that while it's easier to put together than the S95F,  the software setup process is tedious and time-consuming, with almost endless privacy policies, license agreements, and suggested app lists to pretend to read or outright ignore until you can get to the home screen and download what you actually need. Also: How to clear your TV cache (and why it greatly enhances your viewing experience)Another complaint I have is that there aren't any sort of advanced picture settings for adjusting color temperature, sharpness, and contrast. You have four picture modes to choose from (standard, movie, filmmaker, and AI-assisted), but none of them allow you to fine-tune any settings for a truly custom picture that works with your space. ZDNET's buying adviceAll in all, the Samsung QN90F is a solid buy if you're looking for a high-quality TV with excellent picture and audio quality, but don't necessarily want to spring for a more expensive OLED model. With a warmer picture and fuller sound, you get a slightly more enjoyable experience when watching older black-and-white films, but some games and movies with lots of colors might look a bit oversaturated. (That's something you can always modify in picture settings, of course.) It's a great value for a QLED TV, especially if you can catch it on sale (as it often is). Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I changed these 5 settings on my TV to significantly improve the picture quality
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Own a Samsung TV? I changed these 6 settings to instantly improve the performance
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use