Welcome Guide
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
BreachForums hacking forum admin resentenced to three years in prison
Get 8 courses to kickstart or advance your security career for $30
Microsoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office apps
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeWelcome Guide
Welcome Guide
Welcome to BleepingComputer, a free community where people like yourself come together to discuss and learn how to use their computers in an atmosphere that is both helpful and welcoming. With over 700,000 registered members asking and answering questions, BleepingComputer.com has become a vibrant and lively community of like-minded people. Now it is your turn to become part of this experience.
BleepingComputer is paid for completely by advertisement revenue and the moderators are all volunteers. What this means is that any support and advice you receive from this site is completely free. Sounds like a good deal, right? Let's make it sweeter then; as a registered user you will also no longer see any ads at all on this site! What are you waiting for? Learn how to get started asking
questions and helping others in the forums with the simple instructions below:
Create a free account:
Before you can use the forums it is required that you first create a free account. To start the process of creating your free account click on the following link: Click here to create a free account!
Search the forums for related topics from other members:
To search the forums, simply click on the Search link found in the Member bar at the top of every page on this site. When you click on this link you will reach a page that will allow you to search the forum for keywords that you enter. When the forum has finished searching you will be presented with a listing of topics that contain your keyword. You can then click on the topic links to read them. If this step does not solve your question; continue on to the next step where you will post your question.
Hint: When searching use specific, rather than general, keywords in order to fine tune your search.
Select the forum category in which you would like to ask a question:
The forums at BleepingComputer.com are categorized by subject matter. Therefore, before asking a question in the forums, you must first pick the category that best matches your question. First, go to the forums by visiting the URL https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/forums/ or by clicking on the Forum tab found on the top of every page. Then scroll through the forum categories until you find one that matches the subject of your question. When you find that forum, click on its title which will bring you into the specific forum you chose.
Ask a new question in the selected forum category:
Once you have selected the forum category in which you would like to ask
a question, click on the Start New Topic button designated
by the green arrow in the image below.
Fill in the details of your new question:
You will now be at the screen where you input the content and details of your question. The first thing you should do is enter a descriptive topic title in the Topic Title field as shown in the image below
After you have entered the title, you would then enter the actual question you are asking as shown below. When entering your question please be as detailed as possible and include information such as your operating system and the exact error messages you may be receiving.
Next, you should make sure you put a checkmark in the Follow this topic? checkbox as shown below. This will tell the forum software to email you when someone replies to your topic.
Finally, you
post your question to the forums by clicking on the Post New Topic button as show below.
Important!
BleepingComputer.com is a friendly and polite atmosphere. With this in mind, there are a few rules you need to follow:
Read the forum rules found here.
Do not ask questions that are illegal in nature. This includes downloading or sharing copyrighted software, information on how to crack software, or change an administrator password.
Advertisements of any kind are not allowed. Topics with advertisement will be considered spam!
Do not post your question multiple times. If you posted your question in the wrong forum, you can always ask a moderator to move it for you. Information on the various member groups and how to find moderators can be found here.
Be patient and polite while waiting for your question to be answered. It is important to remember that everyone here is a volunteer, so you may not receive an answer immediately.
Other helpful resources at BleepingComputer.com!
BleepingComputer has many useful resources to help optimize and keep your computer trouble free. These resources are outlined below.
Tech Support Forums - A discussion forum that allows you to help, receive computer help, and get to know the other members of BleepingComputer.com.
Spyware and Virus Removal Guides - Self-help guides on removing the latest computer infections.
Downloads - You can use this section to download a variety of useful programs for your computer.
Tutorials - Various tutorials on basic computer concepts, how to perform various tasks on your computer, and how to remove malware using the most popular anti-malware programs.
Startup Database - Startup programs are programs that are automatically started by Windows when the operating system starts. The problem is that many programs, viruses, hijackers, spyware, and other malware set themselves to start automatically when Windows starts. As more and more programs are started automatically, your computer's valuable resources are drained, causing your computer to operate slowly.
This database will allow you to search for programs that you find starting automatically on your computer and determine if they are considered to be malware (harmful), optional, unnecessary, or necessary to run.
Uninstall List - This database contains a list of entries that can appear in your Add or Remove Programs control panel. These programs can be
unwanted programs, and thus should be uninstalled, or for legitimate programs that you may want to leave installed. For most applications, you can remove the software using the Add or Remove Programs control panel. Malware related programs, though, may add these entries to appear legitimate and are not able to be uninstalled using this method. This database will allow you to determine if an entry in your Add or Remove Programs list should be uninstalled.
Glossary - A glossary of computer terms.
Popular Stories
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Microsoft reminds of Windows 10 support ending in 30 days
FBI warns of UNC6040, UNC6395 hackers stealing Salesforce data
Latest forum topics
USB's not passing through to VM's on VirtualBox 7.2.2 LINUX
Mr_MaGee in Linux & Unix
Microsoft Model: 1867 Not Starting?
Johnz414 in Internal Hardware
Hello Everyone
Gunn3rDon in Introductions
Latest virus removal guides
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Filed Under: Adware
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
Filed Under: Adware
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Filed Under: Adware
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Filed Under: Adware
Remove the Smashapps.net Search Redirect
Filed Under: Adware
Latest tutorials
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
255,084 Views
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
Lawrence Abrams
212,299 Views
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
Lawrence Abrams
219,069 Views
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
Lawrence Abrams
189,514 Views
How to open a Windows 11 Command Prompt as Administrator
Lawrence Abrams
237,947 Views
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now