Bop It: The Video Game lets you embrace the ultimate childhood party game
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The popular audio game toy comes back in video game form
Embrace the ultimate childhood party game with Bop It: The Video Game
By
Aimee Hart
Published 5 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Netflix reveals its most-watched movies of all time
Sep 3, 2025
PlayStation airing State of Play this week focusing entirely on new Bond game
Sep 1, 2025
Jordan Peele's next horror movie is in limbo
Sep 3, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Alliance Games
Who hasn't played Bop It before? This childhood audio game toy took over most of my life when I was a small kid thanks to its loud, exciting music and the ability to play it competitively with friends. Now, thanks to Alliance Games, the toy is getting its very own video game release with Bop It: The Video Game. For those who aren't in the know, Bop It is a toy that yells out commands like "BOP IT!" and "PULL IT!" among others. The player's task is to respond to whatever is said. For example, if the toy yells "twist it", the player must pull the twisted tool that's attached to the end of the toy. It sounds simple, but the difficulty ramps up the longer you play. Bop It was well-known for having a selection of groovy songs, and its video game iteration is no exception to that. It features an original soundtrack from artist 2Mello, who has worked on video games such as Read Only Memories and Later Alligator. This time 2Mello is swapping their soothing beats for something much more dynamic, with each track ramping up the BPM as you do your best to follow the Bop It's commands.
Image: Alliance Games
Bop It: The Video Game follows the same principle as the original. Follow the commands in time and build up a streak. If you mess up or go out of sync, you'll lose and go back to the beginning again. What makes the video game different, however, is that it offers alternative modes such as Extreme Mode, which adds SPIN and FLICK commands to keep up the intensity. However, this mode is only available for Mac, Nintendo Switch, and Windows PC. It also offers local multiplayer, which, much like the physical version of the game, allows you to pass the device over during gameplay or compete for the win in Party Mode. The latter is, again, only available for Mac, Nintendo Switch and Windows PC. A leaderboard function will allow you to track your streaks globally, locally, or with friends only. If you've been looking for the chance to embrace the hype and versatility of Bop It in video game form, you'll be happy to know you won't have to wait long. Bop It: The Video Game launches Sept. 18 on Android, iOS, Mac, Nintendo Switch, and Windows PC.
Gaming
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 3, 2025
Lego taps into '90s nostalgia with Sega Genesis Controller
Sep 3, 2025
The Conjuring: Last Rites may end the Conjuring franchise, but there still isn't much at stake
Sep 4, 2025
Jujutsu Kaisen creator’s new manga should surprise fans no matter what
Sep 3, 2025
A young Geralt takes the stage in this exclusive from The Witcher prequel Crossroads of Ravens
Most Popular
Weapons is getting an Aunt Gladys prequel — whether you like it or not
PlayStation's next State of Play streams this Wednesday
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
The Mandalorian movie could make up for Star Wars' biggest misfire
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
See More
Trending Now
The best horror movie sequel of the year is finally streaming on Netflix
Magic's new Spider-Man set exposes a growing debate over MTG's most popular product
My most-played Switch 2 game is this roguelike you've never heard of
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.