Temporal power of the Holy See - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Origins
Toggle Origins subsection
1.1
Patrimony of Saint Peter
1.2
Donation of Pepin
2
Early modern period
3
19th century
4
See also
5
References
Toggle References subsection
5.1
Sources
6
Further reading
Toggle the table of contents
Temporal power of the Holy See
9 languages
العربيةCatalàEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیBahasa IndonesiaItalianoPortuguês
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Political and secular governmental activity of the popes of the Roman Catholic Church
Papal tiara of Pope Pius IX, the last pope to have reigned over the Papal States.
This article is part of a series onVatican City
History
History of the papacy
Duchy of Rome (554–751)
Donation of Pepin (750s)
Papal States (754–1870)
Annates
Congregation for Borders
Fundamental Statute for the Secular Government of the States of the Church
Capture of Rome (1870)
Savoyard era (1870–1929)
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Roman question
Law of Guarantees
Lateran Treaty (1929)
Vatican City (1929–present)
Governorate of Vatican City State
Vatican City during World War II
2010 Vatican employee sex scandal
Vatican leaks scandal (2012)
History of the Catholic Church (1962–present)
Roman Historical Institutes
Law
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Canon law
1983 Code of Canon Law
Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches
Pastor bonus
Capital punishment in Vatican City
Crime in Vatican City
Fundamental Law of Vatican City State
Lateran Treaty
Legal status of the Holy See
Alperin v. Vatican Bank
Doe v. Holy See
LGBTQ rights in Vatican City
Temporal power of the Holy See
Tribunal of Vatican City State
Politics and government
Association of Vatican Lay Workers
College of Cardinals
Camerlengo (chamberlain)
Dean
Corps of Firefighters of the Vatican City State
Corps of Gendarmerie of Vatican City
Court of Appeals
President: Alejandro Arellano Cedillo
Court of Cassation
President: Kevin Joseph Farrell
Fabric of Saint Peter
Foreign relations of the Holy See
Papal apocrisiarius
Governorate of Vatican City State
President: Raffaella Petrini
Military in Vatican City
Swiss Guard
Pontifical Commission for Vatican City State
Pontifical commission
Secretariat for Communications
Holy See Press Office
L'Osservatore Romano (newspaper)
L'Osservatore della Domenica
List of newspapers in Vatican City
.va (internet sites)
Vatican Information Service
Vatican Publishing House
Vatican Radio
Vatican Radio lawsuit
Vatican Television Center
Secretariat of State
Secretary: Pietro Parolin
Tribunale
President: Venerando Marano
Vatican Apostolic Archive
Vical General
Papacy
Pope
Popemobile
Catholic Church
Latin Church
Holy See
Diocese of Rome
Roman Curia
Conclave (papal elections)
Universi Dominici gregis
Recent conclaves
200520132025
Papal household
Papal gentleman
Prefecture of the Papal Household
Foreign relations
Concordats
Legal status of the Holy See
Lateran Treaty
Multilateral foreign policy
Section for Relations with States
Secretary for Relations with States: Paul Gallagher
Undersecretaries for Relations with States: Mirosław Stanisław Wachowski
List of diplomatic missions of the Holy See
Apostolic nuncios
Vatican City and Holy See passports
Visa requirements
Visa policy
Holy See and the United Nations
Holy See–Italy relations
Holy See–Israel relations
Holy See–Palestine relations
Holy See–United States relations
Economy
Administration of the Patrimony of the Apostolic See
Institute for the Works of Religion
Properties of the Holy See
Prefecture for the Economic Affairs of the Holy See
Secretariat for the Economy
Supervisory and Financial Information Authority
Telephone numbers in Vatican City
Tourism in Vatican City
Transport in Vatican City
Vatican City Heliport
Vatican Railway
Vatican euro coins
Vatican lira
Symbols
00120 (postal code)
Coat of arms of Vatican City
Flag
List of papal flags
Papal tiara
Papal coronation
"Pontifical Anthem"
Culture
Languages of Vatican City
Music of Vatican City
Sistine Chapel Choir
Papal Concert to Commemorate the Shoah
Postage stamps and postal history of Vatican City
Pontifical Academy of Sciences
Pontifical Academy of Social Sciences
Public holidays in Vatican City
Sport in Vatican City
The Story of the Vatican (1941 documentary)
Vatican Christmas Tree
Vatican Library
Vatican Museums
Women in Vatican City
Geography and buildings
Apostolic nunciature
Apostolic Palace
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Borgia Apartments
Bramante Staircase
Cappella Giulia
Cappella Paolina
Casina Pio IV
Circus of Nero
Cortile del Belvedere
Domus Sanctae Marthae
Extant papal tombs
Fountains of St. Peter's Square
Gardens of Vatican City
Gregorian Tower
Lateran Palace
Leonine City
Mater Ecclesiae Monastery
Monument to the Royal Stuarts
Niccoline Chapel
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Palace of the Holy Office
Palazzi Pontifici
Papal apartments
Passetto di Borgo
Paul VI Audience Hall
Porta San Pellegrino
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Saint John's Tower
St. Peter's Baldachin
St. Peter's Basilica
St. Peter's Square
Saint Peter's tomb
St Stephen of the Abyssinians
Sala Regia
San Pellegrino in Vaticano
Santa Maria della Pietà in Camposanto dei Teutonici
Santa Maria Maggiore
Sant'Anna dei Palafrenieri
Santi Martino e Sebastiano degli Svizzeri
Santo Stefano degli Ungheresi
Scala Regia
Teutonic Cemetery
Tomb of the Julii
Vatican Apostolic Archive
Vatican Grottoes
Vatican Hill
Vatican Necropolis
Vatican obelisk
Vatican Observatory
Vatican Pharmacy
Via della Conciliazione
Vatican Museums
Collection of Modern and Contemporary Art
Raphael Rooms
Redemptoris Mater Chapel
Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes
Sistine Chapel
Sistine Chapel ceiling
Gallery of the Sistine Chapel ceiling
The Last Judgment (Michelangelo)
Vatican Gallery of Maps
Vatican Historical Museum
Index
Outline
Vatican City portal
Catholicism portalvte
The Holy See exercised temporal power, as distinguished from its spiritual and pastoral activity, while the pope ruled the Papal States in central Italy.
The Papal States ceased to exist following the capture of Rome in 1870 by the Royal Italian Army, after which its remaining territories were annexed to the Kingdom of Italy. The Lateran Treaty of 1929 later established the Vatican City, a small city-state where the Holy See currently exercises temporal powers.
Origins[edit]
Main article: Papal States
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources in this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Pope Innocent III (1198–1216) in his papal tiara, which he claimed as signifying both his spiritual and (indirect)[1] temporal power.Papal coronation of Pope Celestine V
Patrimony of Saint Peter[edit]
The Lateran Palace was the first significant acquisition of the Holy See, most probably a gift from Constantine the Great. The example of Constantine was followed by wealthy families of the Roman nobility,[2] and the residences and estates that were acquired in turn were designated the Patrimonium Sancti Petri. After the deposition of the last Roman emperor in the West in 476, the popes were subjects, first of Odoacer, then Arian Ostrogothic kings, then of the Byzantine emperors, who ruled their Italian territories via a governor called an exarch, stationed in Ravenna.
Pope Gregory II's defiance of the Byzantine Emperor Leo III the Isaurian as a result of the first iconoclastic controversy (726 AD) in the Byzantine Empire, widened the growing divergence between the Byzantine and Carolingian traditions in what was still a unified European Church. This, combined with Lombard military pressure to which the embattled empire could not respond effectively, eventually led to the establishment of the temporal power of the popes. The Duchy of Rome was an imperial territory under the Exarchate of Ravenna. With the waning of Byzantine control in the Italian peninsula, more of the management of the area fell to the popes.
Donation of Pepin[edit]
In 751 the Exarchate of Ravenna fell to Lombard King Aistulf. Five years later, Pepin the Short of the Franks defeated the Lombards and granted the lands of the Duchy of Rome as well as territory ceded by the Lombards to the Papacy in what is referred to as the Donation of Pepin, marking the true beginning of the Papal States. The area conferred upon the pope included the territory belonging to Ravenna, even cities such as Forlì with their hinterlands, the Lombard conquests in the Romagna and in the Duchy of Spoleto and Benevento, and the Pentapolis (the "five cities" of Rimini, Pesaro, Fano, Senigallia and Ancona). Narni and Ceccano were former papal territories.[3] However, the medieval Popes were unable to exercise effective sovereignty over these extensive and mountainous territories, given the recalcitrance of their vassals.
For over a thousand years popes ruled as sovereign over an amalgam of territories on the Italian peninsula known as the Papal States, from the capital, Rome.[4] In 1274 the Comtat Venaissin came under Papal control, followed by Avignon in 1348.[5]
Early modern period[edit]
Theologian Robert Bellarmine, in his 16th-century dogmatic work Disputationes, strongly affirmed the authority of the pope as the vicar of Christ. However, he reasoned that since Christ did not exercise his temporal power, neither may the pope.[6]
In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, of his own initiative, placed the first volume of the Disputationes on a new edition of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying that the pope had direct temporal authority over the whole world. The entry concerning Bellarmin reads: "Roberti Bellarmini Disputationes de Controversiis Christianae fidei adversus huius temporis haereticos. Nisi prius ex superioribus regulis recognitae fuerint."[needs translation] Sixtus V died before he could promulgate the bull which would have made this new edition of the Index enter into force. Sixtus' successor, Urban VII, asked for an examination and after it was done Bellarmine was exonerated and the book removed from the Index.[7][8]
Concerning the pastoral and spiritual power of the pope, Bellarmine's Disputationes (1586–1593) and De potestate summi pontificis in rebus temporalibus (1610; Concerning the Power of the Supreme Pontiff in Temporal Matters) "gave definite form to the theory of papal supremacy".[9]
19th century[edit]
The secular revolutionary movements of the 1800s posed a serious threat to the pope's temporal power. Avignon was seized by revolutionaries during the French Revolution in 1791, ending 450 years of papal sovereignty there. Between 1798 and 1814, the revolutionary French government invaded Italy several times and annexed the Papal States (though the papacy was restored between 1800 and 1809). Napoleon Bonaparte abolished the pope's temporal power in 1809, incorporating Rome and Latium into his First French Empire. Pope Pius VII himself was even taken prisoner by Napoleon. However, the pope's temporal power was restored by the Great powers at the conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars in the 1815 Congress of Vienna. The civil laws of the Napoleonic Code were abolished, and most civil servants were removed from office. In the coming years, rising liberal and nationalist sentiment created popular opposition to the reconstituted clerical government. This led to numerous revolts, which were suppressed by the intervention of the Austrian army.[10]
In November 1848, during the revolutions that swept Europe in that year, the assassination of his minister Pellegrino Rossi led Pope Pius IX to flee Rome. During a political rally in February 1849, a young revolutionary, the Abbé Arduini, described the temporal power of the popes as a "historical lie, a political imposture, and a religious immorality".[11]
On 9 February 1849, a revolutionary Roman Assembly proclaimed the Roman Republic. Subsequently, the Constitution of the Roman Republic abolished papal temporal power, although the independence of the pope as head of the Catholic Church was guaranteed by article 8 of the Principi fondamentali.[12] Like the other revolutionary movements of 1848, the Republic was short-lived; Rome was eventually conquered by the French Second Republic, which restored the papacy's temporal power in the region once again.[13]
In 1859–60, the Papal States were invaded by various republican forces seeking a unified Italian state, and lost the provinces of Romagna, Marche and Umbria. These regions were incorporated into the Kingdom of Sardinia (which thereafter became the Kingdom of Italy), and the papacy's temporal power was reduced to Rome and the region of Lazio. At this point, some ultramontane groups proposed that the temporal power be elevated into a dogma. According to Raffaele De Cesare:
The first idea of convening an Ecumenical Council in Rome to elevate the temporal power into a dogma, originated in the third centenary of the Council of Trent, which took place in that city in December, 1863, and was attended by a number of Austrian and Hungarian prelates.[14]
However, following the Austro-Prussian War, Austria was forced to recognize the newly-formed Kingdom of Italy. As a result, most clerics lost hope of a return of the former temporal power of the Bishop of Rome. Some, primarily Italian, clergy suggested an ecumenical council to dogmatically define papal infallibility as an article of faith, binding upon the consciences of all Catholic faithful. This doctrinal view, however, initially proposed by Franciscan partisans in opposition to the prerogative of popes to contradict the more favorable decrees of their predecessors, faced significant resistance outside of Italy prior to and during the First Vatican Council.[15]
For practical purposes, the temporal power of the popes ended on 20 September 1870, when the Italian Army breached the Aurelian Walls at Porta Pia and entered Rome. This completed the Unification of Italy (Risorgimento).
See also[edit]
Donation of Pepin
Duchy of Rome
Gregorian Reform
Hierocracy (medieval)
Interdict (Catholic canon law)
Investiture Controversy
Neo-ultramontanism
Papal deposing power
Papal Jurisdiction Act 1560
Papal supremacy
Patrimony of Saint Peter
Political theology
Pontifex Maximus
Primacy of the Bishop of Rome
Prisoner in the Vatican
Roman Question
Sic transit gloria mundi
Symphonia (theology)
Theocracy
Ultramontanism
Unam Sanctam
References[edit]
^ Pope Innocent III. Epistolæ, IV, 17, 13. "We do not exercise any temporal jurisdiction except indirectly". From: Jarrett, B. (1911). Papal Arbitration Archived 30 July 2022 at the Wayback Machine. In the Catholic Encyclopedia. Retrieved 30 July 2022.
^ Schnürer, Gustav. "States of the Church." The Catholic Encyclopedia Vol. 14. New York: Robert Appleton Company, 1912. 29 December 2022
This article incorporates text from this source, which is in the public domain.
^ Noble, Thomas F. X., The Republic of St. Peter: The Birth of the Papal State, 1984, .p. 93
^ "Papal States | historical region, Italy | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Retrieved 14 November 2021.
^ "Avignon papacy | Summary, History, & Facts | Britannica". www.britannica.com. Retrieved 14 November 2021.
^ Springborg, Patricia. "Thomas Hobbes and Cardinal Bellarmine: Leviathan and 'the ghost of the Roman empire'". Archived 7 August 2022 at the Wayback Machine. History of Political Thought. XVI:4 (January 1995), pp. 503–531 [516–517].
^ Blackwell, Richard J. (1991). "Chapter 2: Bellarmine's Views Before the Galileo Affair". Galileo, Bellarmine, and the Bible. University of Notre Dame Press. p. 30. doi:10.2307/j.ctvpg847x. ISBN 978-0-268-15893-4. Bellarmine himself was not a stranger to theological condemnation. In August 1590 Pope Sixtus V decided to place the first volume of the Controversies on the Index because Bellarmine had argued that the pope is not the temporal ruler of the whole world and that temporal rulers do not derive their authority to rule from God through the pope but through the consent of the people governed. However Sixtus died before the revised Index was published, and the next pope, Urban VII, who reigned for only twelve days before his own death, removed Bellarmine's book from the list during that brief period. The times were precarious.
^ Vacant, Alfred; Mangenot, Eugene; Amann, Emile (1908). "Bellarmin". Dictionnaire de théologie catholique : contenant l'exposé des doctrines de la théologie catholique, leurs preuves et leur histoire (in French). Vol. 2. University of Ottawa (2nd ed.). Paris: Letouzey et Ané. p. 563–564.
^ "France – Political ideology". Encyclopedia Britannica. Retrieved 18 February 2020.
^ "Papal States – The 15th century to the French Revolution". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 14 November 2021.
^ Jasper Ridley, Garibaldi, Viking Press (1976) p. 268
^ "Costituzione Della Repubblica Romana, 1849". Archived from the original on 27 September 2013. Retrieved 27 September 2013.
^ "The Rise and Fall of the Roman Republic, 1848–1850". Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs. Retrieved 14 November 2021.
^ De Cesare (1909), p. 422.
^ De Cesare (1909), p. 423.
Sources[edit]
De Cesare, Raffaele (1909). The Last Days of Papal Rome. Archibald Constable & Co. ISBN 9780790554624. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
Further reading[edit]
The Last Days of Papal Rome
vteHoly See
Apostolic see of Pope Leo XIV as bishop of the Diocese of Rome
Sovereignty of Vatican City
Legal status of the Holy See
History
Apostolic see
Primacy of Peter
History of papal primacy
Patrimony of Saint Peter
Old St. Peter's Basilica
Lateran Palace
Museum
Duchy of Rome
Donation of Sutri
Donation of Pepin
Avignon Papacy
Papal States
Temporal power
Investiture Controversy
Age of Revolution
"Prisoner in the Vatican"
Savoyard era
Vatican City
Lateran Treaty
World War II
Warsaw Pact
Sovereignjudicial entityunderinternational law(Legal status)Officials
Pope Leo XIV
Cardinal Secretary of State Pietro Parolin
Cardinals
List
Advisers
Governance
Secretariat of State
College of Cardinals
Conclave
Government
Roman Curia
Apostolic Camera
Commissions
For Vatican City State
Councils
Congregations
Dicasteries
Foreign affairs(Multilateral policy)
Section for Relations with States
To the Holy See
Of the Holy See
Heads
Italy
United Nations
Permanent Observer
in Geneva
European Union
Permanent Observer to the Council of Europe
Apostolic nunciature
Nuncio
Treaties
Concordats
Dioceseof Romewith universalfull communion(Papal primacy)Synods
Ordinary general assemblies
Extraordinary general assemblies
Special assemblies
Ecclesiasticalprovince of Rome(Vicariate: Rome,Vatican City)Suburbicarian sees
Ostia
Velletri–Segni
Porto–Santa Rufina
Frascati
Palestrina
Albano
Sabina–Poggio Mirteto
Territorial abbeys
Monte Cassino
Subiaco
Suffragan dioceses
Gaeta
Anagni-Alatri
Civita Castellana
Civitavecchia-Tarquinia
Frosinone-Veroli-Ferentino
Latina-Terracina-Sezze-Priverno
Rieti
Sora-Cassino-Aquino-Pontecorvo
Tivoli
Viterbo
Propertiesincludingextra-territorialityInsideRome
Major basilicas
St. Peter's Basilica
Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran
Santa Maria Maggiore
Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls
Lateran Palace
Lateran University
Scala Sancta
Sancta Sanctorum
Adjoining buildings
Palace of Saint Callixtus
Gianicolo Hill area
Pontifical Urban University
Pontifical North American College
Bambino Gesù Hospital
Palazzo della Cancelleria
Palace of the Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples
Palace of the Holy Office
Palace of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches
Palazzo Pio
Palazzo Maffei Marescotti (Palace of the Vicariate}
Pontifical Roman Minor Seminary
Collegio Teutonico
Teutonic Cemetery
Benedictine monastery
Pontifical Oratory of San Paolo
Beda College
Paul VI Audience Hall
St. Peter's Square
Non-extraterritorial
Palace of the Holy Apostles
Palace of San Carlo ai Catinari
Collegio Bellarmino
Archaeological Institute
Pontifical Oriental Institute
Pontifical Lombard Seminary
Russian College
Two Palaces of Sant'Apollinare
House of Retreat for the Clergy of Saints John and Paul
Nympheum of Nero
OutsideRome
Palace of Castel Gandolfo
Papal farm
Gardens of the Villa Cybo
Villa Barberini
Adjacent gardens
Pontifical College Josephinum
Summer estate of Pontificio Collegio Urbano de Propaganda Fide
Vatican Radio antennae area of Santa Maria di Galeria
Non-extraterritorial
Basilica della Santa Casa
Basilica of Saint Francis of Assisi
Basilica of Saint Anthony of Padua
See also
Acta Apostolicae Sedis
Awards
Papal household
Peter's Pence
Roman Rota
Apostolic Penitentiary
Apostolic Signatura
Swiss Guard
Vatican.va
Vatican City portal
Catholic Church portal
Authority control databases NationalUnited StatesIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Temporal_power_of_the_Holy_See&oldid=1312486235"
Categories: 8th-century establishments in the Byzantine EmpireHistory of the papacyReligion and politicsSovereigntyCanon law historyCatholicism and politicsConflict of lawsHistory of Catholicism in ItalyInternational lawLaw of Vatican CityHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksSource attributionCS1 French-language sources (fr)Articles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse dmy dates from June 2019Articles needing additional references from April 2024All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Latin-language textWikipedia articles needing translationArticles containing Italian-language textCS1 errors: ISBN date
This page was last edited on 20 September 2025, at 23:18 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Temporal power of the Holy See
9 languages
Add topic