I used NotebookLM to learn a new graphics tool, and it was shockingly effective
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
I used NotebookLM to learn a new graphics tool, and it was shockingly effective
By
Nolen Jonker
Published 3 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
Quick Links
Configuring NotebookLM for learning Blender
Surfacing the information I needed
Iterating and troubleshooting
I’ve always found Blender intimidating, at least for its primary purpose, which is 3D modeling. It does have a video editing window that I use from time to time, but creating shapes, moving lights, and rendering colors feels like trying to read a foreign language. Tutorials helped a bit with understanding the basics of modeling, but there’s so much information out there that it often takes an hour scrolling through videos and forums just to learn one tiny step. After successfully pairing NotebookLM with Figma, I thought why not try it with Blender? Once my Blender notebook was set up, the learning curve didn’t feel like a wall anymore. I could ask questions and get explanations in plain language, as well as quick step-by-step guides. The end result wasn’t a masterpiece by any means, but the whole point was simply getting familiar with the process. For someone who usually freezes at the idea of using Blender, this method was shockingly effective.
Configuring NotebookLM for learning Blender
I started feeding my notebook
Before even opening Blender, I set up a dedicated notebook for it. The first step was feeding it my resources; I included YouTube tutorial transcripts. To stay focused on starting with the basics, I only included beginner-level modeling resources, so no rigging or animation stuff. The goal wasn’t to get answers or guidance yet; it was just to give NotebookLM enough context to understand Blender and the learning materials I intended to use. Once my sources were loaded, I wrote a prompt to give NotebookLM my baseline knowledge and goals. If you’re trying this yourself, even with a tool other than Blender, you can use a prompt along the lines of: I’m a beginner in Blender. I’ve never successfully modeled 3D objects before, and I struggle with navigating the interface. My goal is to learn the absolute basics, like creating simple shapes and perhaps adding materials. Treat me as a beginner who needs step-by-step explanations. For now, just note my skill level, goals, and the resources I’ve provided. Don’t give me any instructions yet.
Surfacing the information I needed
Step-by-step
My goal was simple: create the classic beginner donut in Blender. I had already fed NotebookLM the best beginner donut tutorials I could find, so extracting the information wouldn’t be hard. The tricky part was crafting the right prompts with the right sources selected so that I didn’t end up getting yet another drawn-out tutorial that was overwhelming to follow. As per my screenshots above, you can see that NotebookLM gave me only the essentials to get started with the UI, shortcuts, and functions. And of course, I also had to put this into practice, so I spent about 30 minutes just playing around with the Layout window in the app. Then came the actual modeling part. I specifically asked NotebookLM to give me the essentials for getting a donut shape on my canvas in “no more than 10 short steps." That part of the prompt was truly what enabled me to get this done so quickly, because tutorials always take several detours before getting to the point. In under 10 minutes, I ended up with a smooth donut shape that at least didn’t look like a jagged object from a 90s video game. Despite such a short and simplified guide, NotebookLM didn’t leave out any of the important steps, like applying Smooth Shading and adding a Subdivision Surface Modifier. The results of these essential tweaks may not be obvious to a beginner at first glance, so I might have missed them had NotebookLM done a sloppy job.
Iterating and troubleshooting
It was hit-and-miss
I didn’t want to stop at the torus shape and wanted to add things like texture and color. These techniques are a bit more complicated than making shapes, so my prompts and source selection had to get more specific (hiding some sources is a great NotebookLM trick to get more specific answers). For the icing on the donut, I selected the “Modeling the Icing” source, entered my prompt, and NotebookLM stepped up and gave me quick yet specific instructions again. I kept going down my list of sources this way to ensure all my bases were covered, and ended up with a semi-believable icing shape on top of my donut. At one point, the bottom part of my donut peeked through the top icing part, and NotebookLM was able to act as a troubleshooter to help pinpoint the problem. But fixing the problem didn’t go quite as smoothly; I actually had to watch the video outside NotebookLM to learn how to properly fix it. So, it turns out not every set of instructions NotebookLM provides is very useful.
NotebookLM is a sufficient tutor
Just like a human tutor, you can gain valuable insights from the information they provide and the way that information is structured. But that’s only half of the battle: doing the work is still up to you. NotebookLM did a fantastic job introducing me to the basics of Blender and creating simple models. However, it started falling short when I ran into snags, and I had to figure out how to fix it myself. This didn’t taint my overall experience as I would have had to fix those errors without NotebookLM, anyway — I’m still impressed at how quickly and effectively it helped me lay the foundations of my design.
NotebookLM
See at NotebookLM
Expand
Collapse
Source: Blender.org
Blender
See at Blender
Expand
Collapse
Productivity & Creativity Tools
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
Alan
Alan
Alan
#KQ082654
Member since 2024-07-23
0
Threads
40
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Sounds like the "choose your own adventure" books from a few years back.
As such, you could probably take the output, convert it to a series of linked HTML web pages, and publish it.
2025-09-14 00:00:49
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
5 reasons I still haven't switched to a Wi-Fi 6 router, let alone Wi-Fi 7
4 days ago
8 NAS specs you should never skimp on (even if you only care about storage)
4 days ago
Perplexity’s new browser’s best feature is its smart assistant — here’s exactly how I use it
4 days ago
This all-flash mini PC has replaced my NAS, and I’m not going back
More from our brands
How I Use Copilot in Word to Instantly Simplify Complex Text
How I Use Procreate as a Digital Scrapbooking and Journaling Tool
I made Windows 11 look like Windows 7 and it actually works better
I Tried Using Only Apple Apps for Productivity—And I'm Never Going Back!
This Free App Changed How I Navigate My Desktop
What is NotebookLM's new Mind Maps tool and how do I use it?
6 NotebookLM tips I use to stay productive
Today's best deals
This beloved retro series collection is on sale for under $13, its lowest price ever on Steam
2 hours ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
8 hours ago
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I tried dozens of Pocket alternatives, and I keep coming back to this self-hosted tool
3 reasons why I switched back to a flat monitor after using a curved one
A Nintendo Switch emulator just popped up on the Google Play Store, and Nintendo likely won't be pleased
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.