U.S. labels Colombia noncompliant in drug war for first time since 1990s : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
U.S. labels Colombia noncompliant in drug war for first time since 1990s For the first time in decades, the U.S. has decertified Colombia as a drug control partner — a symbolic blow to one of Washington's closest allies in Latin America.
The Americas
For the first time in decades, U.S. says Colombia is falling short in the drug war
September 16, 20258:26 AM ET
By
Alfie Pannell
Police rappel from a helicopter to destroy a cocaine processing lab in Puerto Concordia in Colombia's southern Meta state.
Fernando Vergara/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Fernando Vergara/AP
BOGOTÁ, Colombia — The United States has decertified Colombia as a drug control partner for the first time since 1997. In a memorandum to Congress, President Trump accused Bogotá of "failing demonstrably to meet its drug control obligations." Despite the rebuke, the White House stopped short of imposing sanctions, granting Colombia a "national interest waiver" that preserves U.S. aid and security cooperation.
The move ends months of anxiety in Colombia — where soaring cocaine production has stoked fears of sweeping U.S. sanctions —
but nevertheless deals a symbolic blow to a country that has historically been one of Washington's closest allies in the region.
Sponsor Message
"What this does is send a message to Colombia about Washington's dissatisfaction with current coca crop policy and the tensions between Washington and Bogotá," said Elizabeth Dickinson, a senior Colombia analyst at the International Crisis Group. Colombia, the world's largest cocaine producer, is behind a record-breaking year for the global cocaine market, according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime's (UNODC) most recent annual report, published in June. It found that from 2022 to 2023, the most recent year with available data, Colombia's estimated cocaine yield rose by 50%. Trump used the decertification announcement to personally criticize Colombian President Gustavo Petro, a former leftist rebel who has been at odds with the White House since a spat over deportation flights in January. Petro has attempted to stem drug trafficking through crop substitution programs and negotiations with criminal organizations that have enjoyed little success. "Under the erratic and ineffectual leadership of President Gustavo Petro, coca cultivation and cocaine production and trafficking by narco-terrorist organizations in Colombia has surged to unprecedented levels," wrote Trump.
World
Trump says U.S. military struck boats allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela
Trump says U.S. military struck a boat allegedly carrying drugs from Venezuela
Listen
·
3:52
3:52
Transcript
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5542447/nx-s1-9453858" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
Transcript
Petro fired back, accusing the White House of lying and pointing instead to demand in the U.S. and Europe. "To reduce coca leaf cultivation, what is needed is not glyphosate sprayed from planes, but a reduction in demand," he wrote on X. Trump also criticized Petro's flagship policy of negotiating peace deals with the country's multifarious armed groups, which he said "took advantage of his naiveté and ideological sympathies." Peace negotiations have broadly collapsed in Colombia, leading to an escalation in the conflict between the state and criminal groups that has produced a surge in violent attacks in the past few months.
Sponsor Message
In recent weeks, Colombian politicians and security officials have visited Washington to lobby top Republicans not to cut military aid to the country, warning that such a move could deal a fatal blow to the country's ongoing offensive against armed groups. "The message that the Colombian government and particularly the security forces have been trying to convey has reached an audience in Washington," said Dickinson, adding that "there is a security interest of the United States to maintain cooperation." In his memorandum to Congress, Trump praised Colombia's police and military, recognizing their historic cooperation with U.S. security forces and sacrifices made to counter-narcotics efforts. He also described Colombia as "the closest U.S. ally in the Western Hemisphere against drug cartels and terrorist organizations." But Colombia's security forces may still view decertification as a betrayal, according to Dickinson, especially given increased dangers facing police and soldiers amid Colombia's deteriorating security situation. For over 25 years, Washington has been Bogota's most important ally, providing $14.2 billion in aid since 2000, 64% of which went to Colombia's military and police, according to the Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA), a human rights and advocacy organization. Colombia's decertification may also damage Washington's interests in the broader region. "Waiving the sanctions may have been meant to reduce the sting for Colombians, but the decertification will still raise questions about U.S. reliability as a partner, even for its closest allies in the region," said John Walsh, director for drug policy and the Andes at WOLA. In addition to Colombia, the White House also decertified Afghanistan, Myanmar, Bolivia and Venezuela. Earlier on Monday, Trump announced the second lethal strike this month on an alleged drug vessel outside Venezuelan waters, signaling an increasingly militant approach to counter-narcotics operations in the region.
Colombia
drugs
drug war
war on drugs
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor