This gorgeous claymation horror game that only came our 4 months ago is already at a 35% discount on Steam
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This gorgeous claymation horror game that only came our 4 months ago is already at a 35% discount on Steam
By
Simon Batt
Published Sep 11, 2025
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Well, it's almost October, so you know what that means; it's time to load up on horror games! If you're anything like me, you're already getting into the Halloween spirit and giving your Steam library a once-over for any scary games to play. If you're on the hunt for something new and fresh, or you just want to try out a seriously amazing-looking horror game, then boy, do I have the title for you. It's called The Midnight Walk, and while it came out in May of this year, it's already at 35% off on Steam, its biggest discount yet.
The Midnight Walk is the coolest horror game I've ever seen, and it's on sale
The first thing you'll notice about The Midnight Walk, and by far one of its most outstanding achievements, is its claymation art style. While some games will try to emulate it, The Midnight Walk fully embraces the art medium, with all of the characters and monsters hand-crafted with clay. And while I hate to reduce specific art styles to a simple "catch-all" term, I must say that The Midnight Walk feels very Tim Burton-esque in the best way possible. Plus, if you're really brave, you can play it in VR. Best of luck if you do; even I can't bring myself to do something like that. Here's how the developers describe The Midnight Walk:
Embark upon The Midnight Walk in this reverent dark fantasy adventure built in clay, from the minds behind Lost in Random and Fe.
Become The Burnt One, befriend a lost lantern creature named Potboy, and use his flame to light your way through a conflicting world of wonder and suspense. Survive and outsmart the many monsters eager to devour your little friend’s flame as you experience five tales of fire and darkness, featuring an incredible cast of odd characters.
If you want to give it a go, Steam currently has The Midnight Walk on sale for 35% off. Not only is this the cheapest the game has ever been on Valve's digital platform, but this game was only just released in May 2025. A game that's only four months old rarely goes on such a steep sale, so definitely snap it up if you like the look of it. You've got until September 24th to get the discount, which should be plenty of time to steel your nerves and commit to playing this stunning game.
Gaming
Steam
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
Forget Apple's Awe Dropping event: someone just recovered 54 lost iPod clickwheel games, and it's the 2000s again
Sep 10, 2025
Windows 11 is making it easier to transfer data to a new PC — here's how it works
Sep 9, 2025
The most alive and immersive open-world maps ever created
Sep 9, 2025
3 surprising things you can repurpose laptop batteries for
More from our brands
Today's Your Last Chance To Get 2025's Best Game At A Discount
PS Store Slashes Price Of Sneaky Good Action-RPG To Under $3 For A Limited Time
Steam Users Have Until August 21 to Claim Latest Free Game
Resident Evil Meets Alone In The Dark In This Criminally Underrated Survival Horror Game That's Just $2 On Switch
The Midnight Walk Review - A Captivating Nightmare Carved Out Of Clay
The Midnight Walk Preview - Claymation Terror
The Midnight Walk Is Proof That Claymation Is The Scariest Animation Style Of All
Today's best deals
Don't learn the hard way how a power outage can ruin your gear
1 hour ago
Why pay more? Save $189 on Windows 11 Pro today
4 hours ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
4 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This open-source project turns old PCs into voice controllers for Home Assistant - and it's completely free
You don’t need to spend too much money to start your home lab - here’s how you can do so for cheap
6 free file managers on Linux that are better than anything on Windows
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.