Daily briefing: No strong evidence backs up Trump’s claims about Tylenol and autism
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
nature briefing
article
NATURE BRIEFING
23 September 2025
Daily briefing: No strong evidence backs up Trump’s claims about Tylenol and autism
US President Donald Trump’s claim that Tylenol (paracetamol) is linked to autism “is absolutely not grounded in the scientific findings”, say scientists. Plus, ‘Earth wind’ could be rusting the Moon.
By
Flora Graham
Flora Graham
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Sign up for Nature Briefing
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Hello Nature readers, would you like to get this Briefing in your inbox free every day? Sign up here.Pregnant people have long relied on paracetamol for pain and fever. Credit: BSIP/Universal Images Group/GettyNo strong evidence for autism-Tylenol link“Don’t take Tylenol,” was the blunt advice of US President Donald Trump during an announcement that the US Food and Drug Administration will slap a new warning label on the painkiller (also known as acetaminophen and paracetamol) that flags a “possible association” with autism in children. But there is a lack of strong evidence to back up the claim. “The evidence does not support a causal link between acetaminophen or vaccines and autism,” says clinical teratologist Sura Alwan, the executive director of PEAR-Net Society, a nonprofit advocating for maternal fetal health and research. There are few safe alternatives to treat pain and fever during pregnancy, so advising against it is “bound to increase fear in pregnant women”, says Helen Tager-Flusberg, a psychologist who studies autism. “It is absolutely not grounded in the scientific findings.”Nature | 7 min readWind from Earth is rusting the MoonOxygen particles blown from Earth to the Moon can turn lunar minerals into haematite — otherwise known as rust. The particles are carried in ‘Earth wind’ — a gust of ions of elements such as hydrogen, nitrogen and the offending oxygen — which hits the Moon for around five days each month. Researchers simulated the process by pelting single crystals of iron-rich minerals known to exist on the Moon with ions of oxygen, which caused the crystals to transform into haematite.Nature | 4 min readReference: Geophysical Research Letters paperEbola demands swift vaccine responseAn outbreak of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) has caused 47 confirmed cases of the disease, including 25 deaths, since 4 September. The outbreak, which researchers say was probably caused by a spillover from an infected animal, is currently confined to four remote regions of the country. DRC’s ministry of health has confirmed that the outbreak was caused by Zaire ebolavirus. Z. ebolavirus is the most dangerous strain of the virus, but there are approved vaccines and drugs for it, which could stem the outbreak if rolled out quickly enough, say researchers.Nature | 3 min readFeatures & opinionMini-organs for women’s health 101For the study of women’s reproductive health, neither animal models nor 2D cell cultures really cut the mustard. That, combined with the historical lack of funding for this research, has left even basic questions unanswered. To get a better understanding, researchers are turning to organoids — small 3D clusters of cells that can mimic features of the organ they’re grown to represent. These lab-made ‘mini-organs’ of the placenta, endometrium, ovary and vagina could help to reveal how the organs function, and what happens when things go awry.Nature | 11 min readThe broccoli solution to global nutritionBroccoli is packed with vitamins, minerals, folate and bioactive compounds that have significant health benefits. But not everyone gets to enjoy its nutritional bounty. Plant-breeding researchers Melanie Cabrera and Carlos Messina propose a broccoli breeding programme for heat-tolerant plants, bringing this “nutritional powerhouse” to where it’s needed most and reducing reliance on vulnerable, carbon-intensive supply chains.npj Sustainable Agriculture | 26 min readPodcast: how cataclysms shaped societyIn her first book, Apocalypse, science journalist Lizzie Wade explores some of the cataclysmic events that humans have faced through history, and how these ‘apocalypses’ have shaped societies around the world. Writing in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, “I just wanted to know what other people in the past had done in these moments … what they had felt”, Wade tells the Nature Podcast. “Thinking about the future, seeing ourselves as one link in this chain of human creativity and survival and resilience, you know, made me feel a lot less alone.”Nature Podcast | 28 min listenQuote of the day“Most people will not betray their tribe for a stranger in a lab coat.”Ella Al-Shamahi’s painful journey from creationist to evolutionary biologist taught her why “simply shouting ‘trust the science’ will never truly change people’s minds”. (The Washington Post | 6 min read)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03123-3Today I’m welcoming a new satellite, Space Weather Follow-On L1 (SWFO-L1), that will warn us of potentially disruptive solar storms. The launch of SWFO-L1 comes just in time, says the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration — the sun sentinels up there now are working beyond their design life. Big thanks to every scientist out there wielding this data to help keep us safe on Earth.Thanks for reading,Flora Graham, senior editor, Nature BriefingWith contributions by Jacob Smith• Nature Briefing: Careers — insights, advice and award-winning journalism to help you optimize your working life• Nature Briefing: Microbiology — the most abundant living entities on our planet — microorganisms — and the role they play in health, the environment and food systems• Nature Briefing: Anthropocene — climate change, biodiversity, sustainability and geoengineering• Nature Briefing: AI & Robotics — 100% written by humans, of course• Nature Briefing: Cancer — a weekly newsletter written with cancer researchers in mind• Nature Briefing: Translational Research — covers biotechnology, drug discovery and pharma
Related Articles
Daily briefing: World’s first AI-designed viruses attack antibiotic-resistant bacteria
Daily briefing: Device senses silent speech without an invasive brain implant
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Jobs
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Related Articles
Daily briefing: World’s first AI-designed viruses attack antibiotic-resistant bacteria
Daily briefing: Device senses silent speech without an invasive brain implant
Daily briefing: Can AI help us talk to animals?
Daily briefing: What’s next for gravitational-wave detectors?
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited