Wi-Fi router vs. mesh system: I compared both - and here's what I'd choose | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Networking
Home Networking
Wi-Fi router vs. mesh system: I compared both - and here's what I'd choose
Do you need a single access point or coverage across your whole home? Let's break down which option is right for you and why.
Written by
Charlie Osborne, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 20, 2025 at 3:58 a.m. PT
Maria Diaz/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysRouters are cheaper, faster, and easier to set up.Mesh systems fix dead zones with wider coverage.Choose based on budget, home size, and connection needs.With the adoption of remote and hybrid working, having a reliable internet connection at home is imperative -- not just for one device, but for several. If you have a family, maybe even dozens. So what's better, one single access point, or a mesh network spread about the home?The answer depends on how your home and office are set up and what kind of connection you need. Wi-Fi routers are so good these days that a single access point is often the most straightforward solution. But if you have a larger home or your office is located far away from your router, a mesh network could be a game-changer, boosting the signal no matter where you are.   Also: The best VPN routers of 2025If you're not sure of the difference, that's okay, too. Let's examine both types of connections and consider their pros and cons to determine which one is best for you.
What is a traditional Wi-Fi router? A traditional router acts as a central hub for internet connectivity. The router acquires the connection from your internet service provider (ISP), and then allows other devices around the home to connect to it, either via Wi-Fi, or by simply plugging in an Ethernet cable. Typically, routers are password-protected so only your household can connect to it.
You should buy a traditional Wi-Fi router if...
Cesar Cadenas/ZDNET
1. You're on a budget Standard routers are generally much more affordable than mesh network products. While you can still expect to pay a hundred dollars or more for a premium router, there are many budget-friendly options stable enough to keep your home office running effectively without further input.
2. You have heavy bandwidth and speed requirements
Many routers today, such as the TP-Link AXE5400 are designed with the technology needed to meet heavy bandwidth and streaming requirements. Some, like the Asus RT-BE86U, aim to exceed the requirements of most people for the fastest connection possible. Also: Should you upgrade to Wi-Fi 7? Here's my verdict after testing this next-gen router at homeGamers and live streamers, for example, should generally stick with wired Ethernet connections and traditional routers, as they will likely provide improved speeds and stability over wireless-first products.
3. You want a plug-and-play product
A standard router is often less hassle to set up than a mesh network. For something that "just works," a typical router might be the best option. Set it up once, make sure updates are automatically applied, and forget about it.
4. You want to separate devices and networks
You can set up guest Wi-Fi networks on most modern routers, but if you also want to keep all of your devices on a separate home network in the interests of security, most routers will allow you to do this without much hassle.
Best price Asus RT-BE86U This Asus router supports Wi-Fi 7 for a fast connection protected by multiple security features.
View at Best Buy
What is a mesh router? While traditional routers are singular, centralized access points, mesh networking devices are decentralized.
Instead of one device connecting to a single gateway to the internet, mesh networks are created from multiple Wi-Fi nodes that all provide web connectivity. For example, you could have a central hub in the kitchen and satellite nodes in the home office, kitchen, and bedroom.
CNET: Can invisible lasers help bridge the digital divide? I toured this futuristic cell tower to find outWhen you access the internet while in the kitchen, you would automatically connect to the hub, whereas you would jump on a node while you're in your home office, and so on -- and this blanket coverage is why mesh devices are great for larger homes or offices. Most mesh systems will automatically select the best channels and nodes to avoid dead zones and lower the risk of poor connectivity.
You should buy a mesh networking system if...
Maria Diaz/ZDNET
1. You have spotty coverage in your home The main benefit of a mesh network is extended coverage. Investing in a mesh setup will remove annoyances, such as coverage blackspots or slow connections in larger properties with a lot of square feet. You're far less likely to have dead zones with a mesh system than you are with a single router access point.  Mesh networks can often cover up to 5,000 sq. ft., and more, with enough satellites. That's far more than you can expect from one central router.
2. You need a reliable connection, no matter where you are
As your device will connect to the nearest satellite node rather than a central point of access, this feature helps ensure that -- no matter where you are in a property -- you are less likely to experience connectivity failures or drops.  Also: I switched my high-end Wi-Fi 7 router to a more affordable option - and don't regret itIn this manner, mesh networks are particularly useful if you have a home office in a garden area separate from your house, for example.
Another benefit is that mesh systems and satellites are often designed to look modern, sleek, and may be more discreet than bulky, traditional routers, giving you more options for placement.
3. You want additional controls
Once a mesh network is active, many vendors allow users to control their system through a mobile app. This could include keeping an eye on network traffic, rebooting, or even turning off the internet entirely -- perhaps an appealing prospect for those with children who don't want to mess with a typical router's configuration. In addition, some mesh networks also act as smart hubs and are compatible with voice assistants.
A note of warning, however: you may need to spend some time tweaking configuration settings when you first set up a mesh network.
ZDNET Recommends Eero Pro 7 Our top pick for a mesh network in 2025, the Eero Pro 7 is easy to use and provides reliable connectivity.
View at B&H Photo-Video FAQs
What are the disadvantages of using a Wi-Fi router?
There are three key disadvantages of using a traditional Wi-Fi router:Coverage issues: As internet access is distributed through a single point, this setup can mean that areas far away from your router will have slow or spotty connections that drop. Range extenders can help remove this barrier, and while they can still be cheaper than investing in a mesh network, it's an additional expense. Overload: Unless extenders or channel separation features are used, too many connections may result in overloading, bottlenecks, lags, and connectivity drops.Tweaking: If you want to tweak the more advanced settings on a router, this can often require annoying visits to a platform via desktop, rather than the seamless mobile app connectivity we have learned to enjoy for many of our modern services.
Show more
What router system is best for my home office?
You need to decide whether the financial outlay for a whole mesh network is worth it. In larger homes with dead spots, mesh networking can provide a way to improve your Wi-Fi signal strength and coverage immediately. However, it can be expensive to overhaul your existing router setup for a large home. Going for a complete mesh system may be overkill unless you consistently have multiple users and connected devices competing for bandwidth. A Wi-Fi extender can be a worthwhile investment instead if you decide to stay with a traditional home router but need to expand coverage. Some mesh network systems, such as Google Wifi, Netgear Orbi, and Amazon Eero, are relatively cheap to set up if you don't need too many satellites. Also: The best mesh Wi-Fi routers: Expert recommendedIf you're the only person using your network and need a stable, powerful internet connection -- such as for resource-hungry work applications or gaming -- a traditional router and an Ethernet cable may be all you need for reliable and rapid internet access. Wired internet speeds should be quicker than wireless if the connection is working properly, and investing in a simple Ethernet cable, easy to find for no more than $10 or $15, could be enough. This could save you the cost of a complete overhaul. Wi-Fi range extenders, too, could be considered an alternative to mesh if you need to boost coverage and throughput in some areas, and they will likely be less expensive than purchasing individual mesh nodes. Some vendors also offer mesh "bolt-ons," such as Asus' AiMesh, which creates a mesh-like coverage wireless network without ripping everything out and starting again. However, the downside is that you will probably have to spend some time setting these bolt-ons up and tampering with your router's configurations.
Show more
Is mesh Wi-Fi better for gaming?
The best way to answer this question is to consider latency. Overall, many mesh systems today trade extended coverage for potential downgrades to speed. If your household has gamers using consoles casually, it shouldn't matter what type of router you use. However, professional and dedicated gamers will absolutely notice small lags or latency issues -- and they will want the best speed and stability available. In these cases, a wired, traditional router is likely your best bet.I prefer an Ethernet, cabled connection for PC, Internet-based gaming and sessions with friends, and while my mesh network would probably be adequate, I don't want to risk lagging.
Show more
Is mesh Wi-Fi better than an extender?
While both mesh Wi-Fi and extenders will improve the coverage of your home, there are disadvantages to both. Mesh systems require investment and the cost can add up quickly, but they provide seamless transitions between Wi-Fi access points dotted around your home. Furthermore, you can rapidly change settings or perform updates via mobile apps. Wi-Fi extenders can't be tweaked so easily. However, they are cheaper and are the best option if you just want to tackle a few dead zones, as you just need to plug one into your main router. Keep in mind that, unlike mesh nodes, Wi-Fi extenders won't improve congestion or eradicate bottlenecks.
Show more
Check your ISP first
Before changing your setup, you should review your ISP package. If you're subscribed to a low-speed offering, or your internet provider throttles your speed at peak times, new equipment is not going to help. Instead, a package upgrade could be a better option.
Show more
Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Unplugging these 7 household devices saved me $200 a year in electricity
These 7 smart plug hacks changed how I run my home - here's the setup
3 reasons VPN use is set to explode worldwide - and that might apply to you
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use