Buy a Samsung Galaxy S25 FE and score a $100 Best Buy gift card - here's how | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Buy a Samsung Galaxy S25 FE and score a $100 Best Buy gift card - here's how
Best Buy is selling the Samsung Galaxy S25 FE with a bonus. Plus, get a free month of the Xbox Game Pass Ultimate membership with select purchases.
Written by
Monica Bell, ContributorContributor
Sept. 16, 2025 at 11:29 a.m. PT
Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETSamsung Galaxy S25 FE for $650 + free $100 e-gift card Free gift
2/5 Editor's deal rating View at Best Buy With fall officially in the air, now is the perfect time to upgrade your devices (and maybe get something extra). Luckily, Best Buy is offering a great deal on the new Samsung Galaxy S25 FE; one of our favorite Samsung phones available. Right now, if you buy the Galaxy S25 FE online, you'll automatically get a free $100 Best Buy e-gift card added to your cart -- which essentially discounts the cost of the phone itself. Also: The best smartphones of 2025Of course, the phone's price varies with each phone carrier, but utilizing this deal means you can potentially score a new, unlocked Galaxy S25 FE for only $650 + a free $100 gift card. This promotion also includes one free month of Xbox Game Pass Ultimate membership, so gamers should take note.
Free gift
Samsung Galaxy S25 FE for $650 + free $100 e-gift card
View at Best Buy Expert Sabrina Ortiz reviewed (and loved) the Samsung Galaxy S25 FE. The phone's numerous upgrades from the S24 FE include even more enhanced Galaxy AI features like Now Brief, which gives summaries and suggestions for each day's events, like navigation recommendations and calendar reminders. Also: Get this Samsung TV on sale and get a year of ESPN Unlimited for freeThe AI features also work well with the S25 FE's cameras (including a 12MP sensor for the selfie camera) via a generative edit feature, which suggests distracting images to remove from the background of your photo. It also allows you to erase or adjust various sounds in your videos and automatically trim them to highlight the unmissable moments.
The S25 FE camera in action.  Sabrina Ortiz/ZDNETThe Galaxy S25 FE also has an improved Exynos 2400 chipset with a faster CPU clock speed and a larger 4,900mAh battery, which means quicker charging and better battery life. Despite the larger battery, the S25 FE is 23g lighter and .6mm slimmer than the S24 model. Also: I tried the Samsung Galaxy S25 FE, and it got big upgrades in several waysThe Samsung Galaxy S25 FE price varies depending on your cellphone carrier via Best Buy, but the cost to buy the phone unlocked starts at $650. The gift card automatically applies to your cart when you add the phone. Many S25 FE models also come with a free month-long Xbox Game Pass Ultimate membership, so keep an eye out for that while you shop. With your gift card, you can grab accessories for your new smartphone. We've tested and reviewed other Samsung products, like the Galaxy Buds 3 and the Galaxy Ring, which would be perfect companions to your new S25 FE.
Screenshot by Monica Bell/ZDNETLooking for the next best product? Get expert reviews and editor favorites with ZDNET Recommends.How I rated this deal Any way you slice it, a $100 e-gift card is an excellent add-on to any purchase. Still, I gave this deal a 2/5 rating because even at the lowest starting price available for the Samsung Galaxy S25 FE ($650), a $100 discount via the e-gift card only cuts 15% of the overall cost. I do still think the deal is worth pursuing, especially if you were considering buying the phone anyway. Plus, the gift card can be put towards accessories for your new device.
When will this deal expire?
There isn't a definitive end date for this promotion, so we're not sure how long it'll last. However, deals are subject to sell out or expire anytime, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to save and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com.
Show more
How do we rate deals at ZDNET?
We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
You can buy Samsung's Galaxy S25 FE for only $6 a month - how the deal works
Apple iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Samsung Galaxy S25 Ultra: I tried both flagships, and there's a clear winner
Best early Amazon Prime Day Samsung deals 2025: I'm tracking over 20 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use