Meet the Taste of Home Test Kitchen Team
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Our Test Kitchen Found the Best Bacon
Presenting the Winners from Our Weeknight Winners Recipe Contest
Home Chef Review: It’s Endorsed by Food Celebrities for Good Reason
The Caraway Cookware Our Editors Approve for Home Kitchen Chefs
Presenting the Winners from Our Make & Take Recipe Contest
Meet the Taste of Home Editors
KitchenAid Food Processor Review: Our Product Testing Team Loves This User-Friendly Appliance
49 Favorite Recipes from Our Test Kitchen
Test Kitchen-Preferred: The Best Products Chosen by Our Experts
Taste Test: Our Test Kitchen's Best Root Beer Picks
Join Our 'Taste of Home' Community Cooks!
The Best Kitchen Products We Tested in 2025, According to <i>Taste of Home</i> Editors
Presenting the Winners from Our Make-Ahead Magic Recipe Contest
How Our Test Kitchen Picks the Best Products, from Pantry Items to Cooking Gear
29 of Our Community Cooks' Absolute Favorite Recipes
Announcing Our Kitchen Hacks Contest Winners
Presenting the Finalists in Our Most Innovative Recipe Contest
Presenting the Winners of Our Cooking with Fire Recipe Contest
Announcing the Taste of Home Creators Program!
39 Best Gifts for Chefs, According to Our Test Kitchen Professionals
Taste of Home
Home
Test Kitchen
Meet the Taste of Home Test Kitchen Team
Taste of Home
By
Taste Of Home Editorial Team
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 16, 2024
Save
Saved
Saving
Our Test Kitchen team includes professional chefs, pastry specialists, a registered dietitian and other culinary experts who help bring your favorite recipes to life.
Taste of Home recipes may begin with home cooks, but our team of culinary experts tests and perfects every single one before publication to make sure they can be called Test Kitchen Approved.
From our food editor who reviews thousands of recipe submissions each year, to prep cooks and recipe testers who make every recipe at least twice, to the food stylists who make sure everything looks as good as it tastes, our culinary team works hard behind the scenes.
Here’s a look at the people who make Taste of Home recipes come alive.
Our Test Kitchen Team
Sarah Farmer
Executive Culinary Director
Sarah Farmer is the heart of the Taste of Home Test Kitchen. On top of leading the culinary team, she develops, tests and food styles recipes, balances budgets, connects with vendors and oversees the product testing process for pantry foods and cooking gear. You might spot her in our videos on social media and TV, gushing about the latest food trends or must-have kitchen gadgets.
Sarah joined Taste of Home in 2004 as a food stylist. She’s still head over heels for her job, and loves spending every day surrounded by people who share her enthusiasm for food, cooking and the Taste of Home community. Sarah and her husband live in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Areas of Expertise: Cake and cookie decorating, air fryers, small appliances and cooking gadgets, food and cooking trends
Favorite Recipe: The Best Ever Chili and Chocolate Chip Cookies. “My beloved, low-tech, three-ring binder holds more than 17 years’ worth of my favorite Taste of Home recipes. It’s stained, wrinkled and worn, but deeply cherished,” Sarah says.
Catherine Ward
Prep Kitchen Manager
A lifelong foodie, Catherine Ward heads up the Taste of Home prep kitchen. She also lends her expertise for articles about cooking and baking techniques, as well as kitchen tools. Catherine has worked in the hospitality industry for most of her career, catering and teaching cooking classes. She is happiest when she’s cooking for a table full of friends and family.
Areas of Expertise: Grilling and smoking, bread baking, pie pastry, canning
Favorite Recipe: That Good Salad
Margaret Knoebel
Recipe Editor/Tester
Maggie Knoebel develops, edits, tests and prepares recipes for Taste of Home’s photo and video studios. She’s an alumna of the Culinary Institute of America, where she earned two degrees in baking and pastry arts. When she’s not making new recipes, you can find Maggie reading or hanging out with her goldendoodle, Annie.
Areas of Expertise: Yeast dough, bread baking, cake and cookie decorating
Favorite Recipe: Best Vanilla Buttercream
Allison Cebulla
Culinary Producer
With over 20 years of experience in the food industry, Allison Cebulla is excited to bring her baking expertise to the Taste of Home team. Having owned her own bakery for 7 years, she is well-versed in recipe development, styling, and diverse needs in the kitchen. When not photographing new recipes in the Taste of Home kitchens, Allison enjoys playing dinos and trucks with her two boys, Bowie and Ollie, and cycling with her husband, Craig.
Expertise: Pie pastry and filling, cookies and cakes, sourdough and yeast doughs, gluten-free and dairy-free baking
Awards: Best Pie, Wisconsin Bakers Association
Favorite Recipe: Cherry Hand Pies from my bakery days!
Ellie Crowley
Culinary Producer
Ellie Crowley styles and photographs our high-performing recipes. With more than 11 years of experience as a high school Culinary Arts instructor, Ellie brings her expertise in cooking, recipe development and organization to her fellow foodies on the team. When she’s not cooking new recipes, you can find Ellie hiking with her dog, Hank, or exploring vintage stores and new restaurants with her husband, Blake.
Areas of Expertise: Knife skills, regional and international cuisine, soups, stocks and sauces, yeast doughs, bread baking, cocktails
Favorite Recipes: Slow-Cooker Carnitas washed down with Fresh Lime Margaritas
Josh Rink
Culinary Producer
Josh Rink spends his workdays food styling, shooting recipes and starring in cooking videos. While pursuing an education in fine arts, he worked as a barista, baker and caterer. When he’s not in the kitchen at work, Josh is in the kitchen at home, cooking (and eating!) with friends and family.
Areas of Expertise: Bread baking, pie pastry, cake and cookie decorating, turkey cookery and styling, cocktails
Favorite Recipe: The Best Pizza Dough
Monica Ganos
Culinary Assistant
Monica preps and styles recipes to be photographed for the Taste of Home website and magazine, in addition to appearing in recipe videos and managing the Test Kitchen’s grocery list. Before joining the team, Monica honed her cooking skills working a restaurants while earning her degree in design and visual communications at UW-Milwaukee.
A passionate home cook and baker, Monica is the go-to for anything food-related for her friends and family. When she isn’t in the kitchen, Monica enjoys spending all her time outside, going on walks and trying out new restaurants.
Areas of Expertise: Cocktails, cookies, teaching cooking skills, savory cooking
Favorite Recipe: Hummingbird Cupcakes or Pina Colada Zucchini Bread
Danielle Kasprzak
Culinary Assistant
Danielle has over 20 years of experience in the restaurant industry, doing everything from catering and event coordinating to opening and managing new restaurants in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. At Taste of Home, Danielle makes and styles recipes, films videos and assists with managing the studio’s massive grocery orders.
Outside of work, Danielle loves doing anything outside, especially camping with her partner, Nicholas, and their dogs, Groot and Lucy. When it comes to home cooking, Danielle has a “just wing it” mentality and enjoys making things up as she goes and trying out many variations.
Areas of Expertise: Italian cuisine, cocktails
Favorite Recipe: Zucchini Carrot Cake
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box