U.S. lawmakers push for military dialogue in a rare China visit : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
U.S. lawmakers push for military dialogue in a rare China visit The rare U.S. congressional trip to China comes as relations strain over tariffs and Beijing's claims over the South China Sea.
Special Series U.S. vs. China: Inside a great power rivalry
U.S. lawmakers push for military dialogue in a rare China visit
September 22, 20251:28 AM ET
By
The Associated Press
Chrissy Houlahan, Democratic member of House Armed Services Committee, left, poses for a photo with Chinese Premier Li Qiang at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China on Sunday.
Mahesh Kumar A./Pool AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Mahesh Kumar A./Pool AP
BANGKOK — A bipartisan group of U.S. lawmakers pushed for more military-to-military dialogue in a meeting Sunday with China's Premier Li Qiang, a rare congressional visit since the U.S.-China relations soured.
U.S. vs. China: Inside a great power rivalry
'Chinese Encounters with America' argues U.S. and China lost shared interests
The last trip by a group of senators was in 2023, and Sunday's delegation was the first from the House of Representatives to visit Beijing since 2019. Li welcomed the delegates led by Rep. Adam Smith and called it an "icebreaking trip that will further the ties between the two countries." "It is important for our two countries to have more exchanges and cooperation, this is not only good for our two countries but also of great significance to the world," Li said.
Sponsor Message
Smith, a Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, said both sides were in agreement on the overarching aim of the visit. "Certainly, trade and economy is on the top of the list ... (but also) we're very focused on our military-to-military conversations," he said in opening remarks. "As a member of the Armed Services Committee, I'm deeply concerned that our two militaries don't communicate more." The delegation also included Michael Baumgartner, a Republican member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as Ro Khanna and Chrissy Houlahan, both Democrats on the House Armed Services Committee. The lawmakers are in China until Thursday. U.S.-China relations have taken a downturn since President Donald Trump's first term and have been hobbled by trade tensions, the status of the self-ruled island of Taiwan, which China claims as its own territory, Beijing's support for Russia and China's vast claims in the disputed South China Sea.
U.S. vs. China: Inside a great power rivalry
U.S. and China extend tariff truce deadline for another 3 months
"China and the U.S. are the two most powerful and influential countries in the world, it's really important that we get along, and we find a way to peacefully coexist in the world," Smith said. "I really welcome your remarks about wanting to build and strengthen that relationship." Trump said he would meet Chinese leader Xi Jinping at a regional summit taking place at the end of October in South Korea and will visit China in the "early part of next year," following a lengthy phone call between the two on Friday.
Beijing
China diplomacy
U.S.-China relations
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor