Far North Queensland - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Extent
2
Settlements
3
Industry
Toggle Industry subsection
3.1
Tourism
4
Demographics
5
History
Toggle History subsection
5.1
Cyclones
6
Fauna
7
Tropical North Queensland
8
See also
9
References
10
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Far North Queensland
11 languages
DeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisHrvatskiNederlands日本語Oʻzbekcha / ўзбекчаPortuguêsРусский
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikivoyageWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Region in Queensland, AustraliaFar North QueenslandQueenslandQueensland regionsPopulation280,638 (2010 est.)[1] • Density0.7370696/km2 (1.909002/sq mi)Area380,748.3 km2 (147,007.7 sq mi)LGA(s)Aurukun, Burke, Cairns, Carpentaria, Cassowary Coast, Cook, Croydon, Doomadgee, Douglas, Etheridge, Hope Vale, Kowanyama, Lockhart River, Mapoon, Mareeba, Mornington, Napranum, Northern Peninsula Area, Pormpuraaw, Tablelands, Torres, Torres Strait Island, Weipa, Wujal Wujal, YarrabahState electorate(s)Electoral district of Barron River, Electoral district of Cairns, Electoral district of Cook, Electoral district of Dalrymple, Electoral district of Hinchinbrook, Electoral district of MulgraveFederal division(s) Kennedy Leichhardt
Localities around Far North Queensland:
Gulf of Carpentaria
Torres Strait
Coral Sea
North West Queensland
Far North Queensland
Coral Sea
North West Queensland
North Queensland
North Queensland
Far North Queensland (FNQ) is the northernmost part of the Australian state of Queensland. Its largest city is Cairns and it is dominated geographically by Cape York Peninsula, which stretches north to the Torres Strait, and west to the Gulf Country. The waters of Torres Strait include the only international border in the area contiguous with the Australian mainland, between Australia and Papua New Guinea.
The region is home to three World Heritage Sites, the Great Barrier Reef, the Wet Tropics of Queensland and Riversleigh, Australia's largest fossil mammal site. Far North Queensland lays claim to over 70 national parks, including Mount Bartle Frere; with a peak of 1,622 metres (5,322 ft) it is the highest peak in both Northern Australia and Queensland.
The Far North region is the only region of Australia that is the indigenous country of both Aboriginal Australians and Torres Strait Islanders.
Far North Queensland supports a significant agricultural sector, a number of significant mines and is home to Queensland's largest wind farm, the Windy Hill Wind Farm.
Extent[edit]
View from Daintree National Park, 2009
Various government departments and agencies have different definitions for the region. The Queensland Government department of Trade and Investment Queensland defines the region as an area comprising the following 25 local government areas; Aurukun, Burke, Cairns, Carpentaria, Cassowary Coast, Cook, Croydon, Doomadgee, Douglas, Etheridge, Hope Vale, Kowanyama, Lockhart River, Mapoon, Mareeba, Mornington, Napranum, Northern Peninsula Area, Pormpuraaw, Tablelands, Torres Strait Islands (not autonomous), Torres Strait Islands (autonomous), Weipa, Wujal Wujal, and Yarrabah.
Settlements[edit]
The main population and administrative centre of the region is the city of Cairns. Other key population centres include Cooktown, the Atherton Tableland, Weipa, Innisfail and the Torres Strait Islands. The region also consists of many Aboriginal and farming groups.
The northeastern point of Highway 1 passes through the region in the city of Cairns and connects the southern-running Bruce Highway to the western-running Savannah Way. Highway 1 circumnavigates the continent at a length of approximately 14,500 kilometres (9,000 mi) and is the longest national highway in the world. Despite being Highway 1, not all sections of the Savannah Way are designated as a federally funded National Highway and certain sections remain unsealed.
Despite being in a housing crisis, the region has a very high unoccupied house rate.[2] In the 2021 Australian census in Douglas Shire the rate of empty homes was 18%.[2]
Industry[edit]
Crops near Cardwell, Far North Queensland
Significant industries include tourism, cattle grazing, agriculture and mining of both sand and bauxite. Agricultural products generate between $600 and $700 million a year.[3] Sugar cane, tropical fruits including bananas, mangoes, papaya, lychees and coffee are grown in Far North Queensland.
The region is home to the world's biggest silica mine at Cape Flattery.[4] The mine was established in 1967 and was severely damaged by Cyclone Ita in 2014.
Rio Tinto Alcan operates a bauxite mine on the western coast of Cape York Peninsula near Weipa which contains one of the largest bauxite deposits in the world.[5]
In recent years, Far North Queensland has become increasingly known for its artistic and creative offerings, with the Cairns Indigenous Art Fair, and Cairns Festival both held annually. Active arts organisation include the Tanks Arts Centre, Cairns Civic Theatre, and Cairns Art Gallery.
Tourism[edit]
Bloomfield Track in the Daintree Rainforest
The region supports a large tourism industry and is considered a premier tourist destination in Australia.[6] Nearly one third of international visitors to the state come to the region.[6] Attractions include the Great Barrier Reef, Daintree Rainforest and other Queensland tropical rain forests within the Wet Tropics of Queensland heritage area, the Atherton Tableland, Hinchinbrook Island and other resort islands such as Dunk Island and Green Island.
Major attractions around and in Cairns include Cairns Aquarium, Cairns Botanic Gardens, The Reef Hotel Casino, Kuranda Scenic Railway, Barron Falls and the Skyrail Rainforest Cableway.
Towns and localities attracting large numbers of tourists include Cape Tribulation, Port Douglas, Mission Beach and Cardwell.
Demographics[edit]
The Australian Bureau of Statistics estimates the region's population at 280,638 in 2010.[1] The region contains 25.6% of the state's Indigenous population, or 28,909 people, making up 11.8% of the region's population.[7]
In addition to its large Indigenous community, there is also a large number of Melanesians in Far North Queensland, due to the region's close proximity to Melanesia. The majority of them are from Papua New Guinea or are South Sea Islanders, who descend from labourers who were blackbirded and brought to Queensland from Fiji, the Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. Cairns has the highest population of Papua New Guineans outside of Papua New Guinea itself.[8]
History[edit]
Yalanji
(also known as Kuku Yalanji, Kuku Yalaja, Kuku Yelandji, and Gugu Yalanji) is an Australian Aboriginal language of Far North Queensland. The traditional language region is Mossman River in the south to the Annan River in the north, bordered by the Pacific Ocean in the east and extending inland to west of Mount Mulgrave. This includes the local government boundaries of the Shire of Douglas, the Shire of Cook and the Aboriginal Shire of Wujal Wujal and the towns and localities of Cooktown, Mossman, Daintree, Cape Tribulation and Wujal Wujal. It includes the head of the Palmer River, the Bloomfield River, China Camp, Maytown, and Palmerville.[9]
Kuku Yalanji
(also known as Gugu Yalanji, Kuku Yalaja, and Kuku Yelandji) is an Australian Aboriginal language of the Mossman and Daintree areas of North Queensland. The language region includes areas within the local government area of Shire of Douglas and Shire of Cook, particularly the localities of Mossman, Daintree, Bloomfield River, China Camp, Maytown, Palmer, Cape Tribulation and Wujal Wujal.[10]
Warungu (also known as Warrungu, Warrongo, and Waroongoo.) is an Australian Aboriginal language in North Queensland. The language region includes areas from the Upper Herbert River to Mount Garnet.[11]
Yir Yiront (also known as Yiront, Jirjoront, Yir-yiront, and Kokomindjan) is an Australian Aboriginal language. Its traditional language region is in Western Cape York within the local government areas of Aboriginal Shire of Kowanyama and Shire of Cook, in the catchments of the Coleman River and Mitchell River. Following the removal of Aboriginal people from their traditional lands, it is also spoken in Pormpuraaw and Kowanyama.[12]
Yidinji (also known as Yidinj, Yidiny, and Idindji) is an Australian Aboriginal language of North Queensland. Its traditional language region is within the local government areas of Cairns Region and Tablelands Region, in such localities as Cairns, Gordonvale, the southern part of the Atherton Tableland including Atherton and Kairi.[13]
Far North Queensland is the location of the first amber fossils to be found in Australia. The four-million-year-old fossils were found on a beach in Cape York Peninsula but were probably washed ashore after drifting with the currents for about 200 km.[14] In the 1860s, Richard Daintree discovered gold and copper deposits along several rivers which led early prospectors to the area.[15]
Many mining towns have come and gone, going through a boom and bust cycle as mines were depleted.[16]
The Mount Mulligan mine disaster occurred on 19 September 1921.[17] Seventy-five workers were killed, making it the third-worst coal mining accident in Australia.[17]
Cyclones[edit]
The region suffered Queensland's worst maritime disaster on 4 March 1899 when the Mahina Cyclone destroyed all 100 ships moored in Princess Charlotte Bay. The entire North Queensland pearling fleet was in the bay at the time of the cyclone. Approximately 100 Aboriginals assisting survivors and 307 men from the pearling fleet were drowned.[18] Its pressure was measured at 914 hPa with a recorded tidal surge of 13 m, the highest ever in Australia.[19] The 1918 Mackay cyclone hit the Queensland coast in January of that year, killing 30 people.[20]
In March 1997, Cyclone Justin resulted in the deaths of seven people.
In early 2000, Cyclone Steve caused major flooding between Cairns and Mareeba.
Cyclone Larry crossed the Queensland coast near Innisfail in March 2006.
The storm resulted in an estimated $1.5 billion worth of damage and damaged 10,000 homes.[20] 80% of Australia's banana crop was destroyed.
Cyclone Monica was the most intense cyclone on record in terms of wind speed to cross the Australian coast. It impacted the Northern Territory and Far North Queensland in April 2006.
In January 2011, Cyclone Yasi passed over Tully and resulted in an estimated $3.6 billion worth of damage, making it the costliest cyclone ever to hit Australia.[20]
In December 2023, Cyclone Jasper crossed the Far North Queensland coast south of Cooktown as a category two cyclone.
It later stalled over the southern York Peninsula resulting in record rainfall along the eastern coast that lead to the 2023 Cairns floods. Port Douglas received more than a metre of rain in a few days.[21]
Fauna[edit]
A Southern Cassowary, South Mission Beach, 2011
The region has many unique native animal species such as crocodile, endangered southern cassowary, koala, flying possum, python, water dragon, wallabie, flying fox, tree kangaroo, platypus, leaf-tailed gecko and bandicoot.[22][23][24]
Tropical North Queensland[edit]
Far North Queensland has a tropical climate and as such, the name Tropical North Queensland is also used as the name for the region, mostly due to the tourism industry. Tourism Tropical North Queensland (TTNQ) defines its area from Cardwell in the south up to the Torres Strait in the north and west to the Queensland border with the Northern Territory. However, the phrase Tropical North Queensland is ambiguous and may be used to name a wider area including parts of North Queensland, or even Mackay.[25][26][27]
See also[edit]
Queensland portal
Proposal for a new state of North Queensland
List of regions in Australia
References[edit]
^ a b National Regional Profile: Far North (Statistical Division) Archived 29 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine. Australian Bureau of Statistics. Retrieved on 27 January 2012.
^ a b Testa, Christopher (29 June 2022). "Far North Queensland has a housing crisis but the census found more than 11,000 empty homes". ABC News. Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 29 September 2023. Retrieved 21 September 2023.
^ Sam Davis (2 August 2012). "Queensland roads holding back nation's fresh fruit". ABC Far North Queensland. Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 8 August 2012. Retrieved 21 September 2012.
^ Tony Moore (14 April 2014). "'World's biggest' silica mine damaged by Cyclone Ita". Brisbane Times. Fairfax Media. Archived from the original on 26 April 2014. Retrieved 2 June 2014.
^ "Bauxite and aluminia operations". Operations & financial report. Rio Tinto Alcan. 6 July 2011. Archived from the original on 24 September 2015. Retrieved 2 June 2014.
^ a b "The economic and social impacts of tourism in the Far North Queensland planning region" (PDF). Planning Information and Forecasting Unit. Queensland Government. Archived from the original (PDF) on 7 June 2015. Retrieved 2 June 2014.
^ Office of economic and statistical research[permanent dead link]
^ "Regions we visit". Tradelinked Cairns - PNG - Pacific. 2 October 2018. Retrieved 6 July 2024.
^
This Wikipedia article incorporates CC BY 4.0 licensed text from: "Yalanji". Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages map. State Library of Queensland. Retrieved 5 February 2020.
^
This Wikipedia article incorporates CC BY 4.0 licensed text from: "Kuku Yalanji". Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages map. State Library of Queensland. Retrieved 28 January 2020.
^
This Wikipedia article incorporates CC BY 4.0 licensed text from: "Warungu". Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages map. State Library of Queensland. Retrieved 5 February 2020.
^
This Wikipedia article incorporates CC BY 4.0 licensed text from: "Yir Yiront". Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages map. State Library of Queensland. Retrieved 30 January 2020.
^
This Wikipedia article incorporates CC BY 4.0 licensed text from: "Yidinji". Queensland Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages map. State Library of Queensland. Retrieved 30 January 2020.
^ Anna Salleh (29 November 2006). "Amber fossils a first for Australia". ABC Science Online. Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 19 February 2012. Retrieved 27 January 2012.
^ "Richard Daintree (1832–1878)". Daintree, Richard (1832–1878). National Centre of Biography, Australian National University. Archived from the original on 8 February 2015. Retrieved 8 February 2015. {{cite book}}: |work= ignored (help)
^ Brandel, Phil (8 September 2023). "Abandoned boom-and-bust mining towns of far north Queensland measured by how many pubs they had". ABC News. Australian Broadcasting Corporation. Archived from the original on 20 September 2023. Retrieved 21 September 2023.
^ a b "Mount Mulligan mine disaster". Australasian Mine Safety Journal. 24 June 2019. Archived from the original on 12 October 2023. Retrieved 21 September 2023.
^ Shilton, Peter (2005). Natural areas of Queensland. Mount Gravatt, Queensland: Goldpress. pp. 16, 17, 29, 32. ISBN 0-9758275-0-2.
^ Jonathan Nott & Matthew Hayne (2000). "How high was the storm surge from Tropical Cyclone Mahina?" (PDF). Australian Emergency Management. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 February 2014. Retrieved 4 June 2014.
^ a b c Marina Kamenev (2 February 2011). "Australia's worst cyclones: timeline". Australian Geographic. Archived from the original on 7 June 2014. Retrieved 4 June 2014.
^ Readfearn, Graham (19 December 2023). "Cyclone Jasper: how did it cause so much rain and could global heating be to blame?". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 22 December 2023. Retrieved 22 December 2023.
^ "Wildlife Tropical North Queensland - Unequalled Wildlife Experiences". wildlifetropicalnorthqueensland. Archived from the original on 21 April 2024. Retrieved 1 May 2024.
^ "Iconic Australian fauna in Far North Queensland · iNaturalist". iNaturalist. Archived from the original on 14 January 2023. Retrieved 1 May 2024.
^ "Native animals of Cairns local government area". Wetland Info. Queensland Government. Archived from the original on 30 April 2024. Retrieved 1 May 2024.
^ "Tropical Queensland's Number 1 Events Calendar showcasing the region". www.tnqevents.com.au. Archived from the original on 12 March 2019. Retrieved 29 April 2019.
^ "Tropical North Queensland - No Place Like it on Earth". Tropical North QLD. Archived from the original on 7 March 2019. Retrieved 29 April 2019.
^ Amey, Andrew (29 April 2019). "Wildlife of tropical North Queensland : Cooktown to Mackay". Queensland Museum. Archived from the original on 31 July 2020. Retrieved 29 April 2019 – via Trove.
External links[edit]
Watch historical footage of Babinda, Cairns and Far North Queensland (Archived 12 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine) from the National Film and Sound Archive of Australia's collection.
vteFar North Queensland, QueenslandCities
Cairns
Townships
Atherton
Aurukun
Babinda
Badu Island
Bamaga
Burketown
Cardwell
Chillagoe
Coen
Cooktown
Croydon
Dimbulah
Doomadgee
Georgetown
Gordonvale
Herberton
Hope Vale
Innisfail
Karumba
Kowanyama
Kuranda
Laura
Lockhart River
Malanda
Mapoon
Mareeba
Millaa Millaa
Mission Beach
Mornington Island
Mossman
Napranum
Normanton
Pormpuraaw
Port Douglas
Thursday Island
Tully
Weipa
Wujal Wujal
Yungaburra
Local Government Areas
Aurukun
Burke
Cairns
Carpentaria
Cassowary Coast
Cook
Croydon
Doomadgee
Douglas
Etheridge
Hope Vale
Kowanyama
Lockhart River
Mapoon
Mareeba
Mornington
Napranum
Northern Peninsula Area
Pormpuraaw
Tablelands
Torres Strait Islands (not autonomous)
Torres Strait Islands (autonomous)
Weipa
Wujal Wujal
Yarrabah
National Parks
Alwal
Annan River
Apudthama
Barnard Island Group
Barron Gorge
Blackbraes
Bulleringa
Cape Melville
Chillagoe-Mungana
Claremont Isles
Clump Mountain
Crater Lakes
Daintree
Danbulla
Davies Creek
Djiru
Ella Bay
Endeavour River
Eubenangee Swamp
Family Islands
Fitzroy Island
Flinders Group
Frankland Group
Forty Mile Scrub
Great Basalt Wall
Green Island
Grey Peaks
Girramay
Girringun
Goold Island
Hann Tableland
Hasties Swamp
Hinchinbrook Island
Hope Islands
Howick Group
Hull River
Japoon
Kalkajaka
Kirrama
Kuranda
Kurrimine Beach
Kutini-Payamu
Lama Lama
Lizard Island
Ma’alpiku Island
Macalister Range
Malaan
Maria Creek
Marpa
Michaelmas and Upolu Cays
Millstream Falls
Mitchell-Alice Rivers
Mitirinchi Island
Moresby Range
Mount Cook
Mount Hypipamee
Mount Lewis
Mount Spurgeon
Mount Webb
Mount Windsor
Mowbray
Ngalba Bulal
Nymph Island
Oyala Thumotang
Palmerston Rocks
Piper Islands
Possession Island
Precipice
Raine Island
Rinyirru
Rocky Islets
Russell River
Sandbanks
Saunders Islands
Sir Charles Hardy Group
Staaten River
Starcke
Three Islands
Topaz Road
Tully Gorge
Turtle Group
Two Islands
Undara Volcanic
Wooroonooran
Wuthara Island
Yamarrinh Wachangan Islands
Yungaburra
Places of Interest
Atherton Tableland
Barron Falls
Cape Tribulation
Daintree Rainforest
Hinchinbrook Island
Mount Bartle Frere
Princess Charlotte Bay
Torres Strait Islands
vteQueenslandGeneral
Economy
Energy
Geography
Geology
History
Regions
Symbols
Sport
Australian rules football
Rugby league
Rugby union
Politics and Government
Politics
Government
Parliament
Legislative Assembly
Local Government
Constitution
Premier
Flag
Courts
Supreme Court
District Court
Magistrates Court
Services
Fire and Emergency Services
Police
Ambulance Service
Electoral Commission
Regions
Regions of Queensland
South East
Darling Downs
Wide Bay–Burnett
South West
Central West
Central
North
Gulf Country
Far North
Cities and towns
Brisbane
Bundaberg
Cairns
Caboolture
Gladstone
Gold Coast
Gympie
Hervey Bay
Mackay
Maryborough
Mount Isa
Rockhampton
Sunshine Coast
Toowoomba
Townsville
Logan
People
Queenslanders
Brisbanites
Members of Parliament
Premiers
Portal
WikiProject
Category
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Far_North_Queensland&oldid=1312616684"
Category: Far North QueenslandHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2017Articles with permanently dead external linksArticles incorporating text from the State Library of QueenslandCS1 errors: periodical ignoredUse dmy dates from November 2020Use Australian English from April 2012All Wikipedia articles written in Australian EnglishArticles with short descriptionShort description is different from Wikidata
This page was last edited on 21 September 2025, at 17:58 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Far North Queensland
11 languages
Add topic