1 dead, 2 wounded in shooting at New Hampshire country club; suspect arrested - CBS Boston
Latest
U.S.
Charlie Kirk Memorial
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Boston
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
WBZ Features
All News
Health
I-Team
Politics
Education
Business
Consumer
Entertainment
NEXT Weather Forecast
Radar & Maps
School Closings
School Visits
Climate Change
Share Photos and Videos
Join Weather Watchers
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Patriots
Red Sox
Celtics
Bruins
Revolution
Odds
New England Living
Question Everything
It Happens Here
Keller @ Large
Wednesday's Child
Climate Watch
Change Makers
Contact Us
TV Schedule
Meet Our Team
Station Info
Contests
Jobs & Internships
Download Our App
Watch CBS News
Local News
1 dead, 2 wounded in shooting at New Hampshire country club; suspect arrested
By
Matt
Schooley,
Matt
Schooley
Digital Producer, CBS Boston
Matt Schooley is a digital producer at CBS Boston. He has been a member of the WBZ news team for the last decade.
Read Full Bio
Matt
Schooley,
Samantha
Chaney,
Samantha
Chaney
Samantha Chaney joined WBZ-TV in September 2024 as a multi-skilled journalist and reporter.
Read Full Bio
Samantha
Chaney,
Riley
Rourke
Riley
Rourke
Digital Producer, CBS Boston
Riley Rourke is a digital producer for CBS Boston. She has worked at WBZ-TV since graduating from Emerson College in 2023.
Read Full Bio
Riley
Rourke
Updated on:
September 21, 2025 / 8:52 PM EDT
/ CBS Boston
Fatal shooting at New Hampshire country club not motivated by hate, attorney general says
Fatal shooting at New Hampshire country club not motivated by hate, attorney general says
03:21
One person is dead and several people were wounded during a shooting Saturday night at Sky Meadow Country Club in Nashua, New Hampshire, authorities said. A suspect was arrested and charged with murder, authorities announced Sunday morning. The incident occurred at around 8 p.m. ET at the country club located on Mountain Laurels Drive in Nashua, about 45 miles northwest of Boston, Massachusetts. The shooting lasted under one minute, according to New Hampshire Attorney General John Formella.
Formella and Nashua Police Chief Kevin Rourke announced late Saturday night that an adult man was shot and killed and two other adults were shot and wounded. One of the victims was an employee who was working as a host for the wedding and received a gunshot wound to the face while they were in the hallway, officials said. They were med-flighted to Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston and are in critical but stable condition. The other gunshot victim was a customer at the PRIME restaurant inside the country club, according to Formella. There is no update on their condition. At least four other people were injured during the shooting, including a broken hand, cuts and more, according to Curran.Authorities identified the victim as 59-year-old Robert Steven DeCesare. Formella said that DeCesare was having dinner with his family at the restaurant. An autopsy will be performed on Monday.
The suspect, identified as 23-year-old Hunter Nadeau, was arrested and charged with one count of second-degree murder. Police found Nadeau within 30 minutes of the shooting in a nearby neighborhood, according to Rourke.Formella said that Nadeau is a Nashua resident and was a former employee of Sky Meadow. He stopped working there roughly a year ago, but officials did not disclose whether he was fired or quit.
The Office of the Attorney General released Nadeau's mugshot on Sunday morning.
Office of the Attorney General
Additional charges will likely be brought, including for the additional shooting victims, the New Hampshire Attorney General's Office said.Authorities said there is no known connection between Nadeau and the victims. Officials said that they are working to determine his motive, but said the shooting was not a hate-motivated crime.
"We don't have any evidence at this time that would indicate that Mr. Nadeau was motivated by a hate-based motivation," said Formella.There were reports of statements that Nadeau made during the shooting, but Formella said that "the evidence leads us to believe that it is more likely that Mr. Nadeau simply tried to make a number of statements to create chaos in the moment."Police initially reported that two armed suspects had fled following the shooting and one had been detained. About an hour later, however, police said that after viewing surveillance footage, they believed there had been only one shooter and the person was in custody."Video surveillance has confirmed there was only one shooter and they are currently being detained. The scene is still an active investigation, but there is no further danger to the public," Nashua police said.Governor Kelly Ayotte has been briefed on the shooting, according to Formella. Man hits gunman in head with chairWitness Sophie Flabouris was at a wedding inside the country club. She said the shooting took place at the restaurant in the room next door. She said that someone hit the shooter over the head with a chair. The bleeding suspect ran through the wedding reception and into the kitchen, Flabouris said.
"This ended up being a fairly contained event. It lasted well under a minute and it was not nearly as tragic as it could have been. I want to commend the selfless acts of courage by the patrons in the restaurant who again put aside care for their safety and worked to intervene and stop the shooter and keep this a much more contained event than it otherwise may have been."
Flabouris said she hid under the table, then ran to safety in a nearby locker room."I first initially hid under the table with a tablecloth. Your next thought is, am I safe here? Am I a sitting duck? What's going to happen? Is this guy going to come through? Is he going to be looking under tablecloths? Is he going to be shooting everyone in the room? You don't know. It's very scary to experience something like that."Nadaeu is expected to be arraigned at the Ninth Circuit Court around 1 p.m. in Nashua on Monday.  Sky Meadow Country ClubSky Meadow is a private country club with a golf course, restaurants and a function hall."As a premier, private country club, we take great pride in offering a level of attention to detail that sets us apart from the rest," the country club's website reads. "Whether you're on the golf course, attending a special event, enjoying live entertainment, or indulging in our exceptional dining options, you'll experience the hallmarks of excellence that define Sky Meadow."Sky Meadow Country Club is located about five minutes over the Massachusetts border.
More from CBS News
Skateboarder dies in collision with LAPD patrol car near Highland Park
Police searching for armed man in East Los Angeles who may have shot at officers
Police officers shoot, kill murder San Diego County murder suspect at Orange County In-n-Out
New Hampshire
Nashua News
Matt
Schooley
Matt Schooley is a digital producer at CBS Boston. He has been a member of the WBZ news team for the last decade.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Man hit gunman in head with chair at Nashua NH shooting, witnesses say
Firefighter, resident taken to hospital after large fire at 2 homes in Boston
Police dog rewarded with Happy Meal for finding missing Avon man
Malden woman pleads for compassion after husband detained by ICE
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
CBS News Boston
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for WSBK-TV / myTV38
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue