Texan Moves to Colombia and Is Saving Money and Much Happier
- Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Real Estate
My family moved from Austin to Colombia. We're saving so much money, and I love having my in-laws close to help with my kid.
As told to
Alcynna Lloyd
Jenn Jamali and her husband.
Courtesy of Jenn Jamali
2025-09-20T09:07:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Jennifer Jamali, 34, felt isolated in her suburban Austin neighborhood.
In May, she, her husband, and their daughter moved to Bogotá, Colombia, to be closer to family.
In Bogotá, they live rent-free, pay $300 a month for day care, and earn thousands renting out their Austin home.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with Jennifer Jamali, a 34-year-old who moved from Austin to Bogotá, Colombia, in May. The conversation has been edited for length and clarity.
I grew up in Houston but had been living in Austin for nine years. I felt stuck in my suburban neighborhood. Everything looked the same, it was very quiet, and you barely saw anyone outside.A typical day involved going to the gym or getting coffee and then returning home to work with my husband. I felt isolated and craved more adventure and community.
In 2022, I was laid off from my job as a tech recruiter at Spotify while eight weeks pregnant. Work had been slow leading up to the layoff, so I wasn't surprised, and luckily, I was financially prepared.After that, I started my own business as a money and career coach. But even then, life felt mundane. Every day was the same: I took my daughter to day care, worked, and then picked her up — the same thing, just a different day.
Austin.
21AERIALS/Getty Images
In 2025, we lost multiple family members and were going through grief. That's when it clicked for me. Life is so short — why are we spending so much money in the US for a life we're not even happy with?
In May, we decided to move to Bogotá, Colombia, where my husband is from, and where his family still lives.Bogotá has a warm, human-first culture. My days are full of microconnections where I say hi to my neighbors, and they actually acknowledge me. I feel like I have a real community here — and I am lucky to be a part of it.The US dollar also goes very far in Colombia. Our monthly living expenses have dropped from $7,000 in Austin to $2,000 in Bogotá. Sometimes, I wonder how we did not move sooner.
There's a stronger sense of community in ColombiaWe live in central Bogotá, which is like the New York City of Colombia. It's dense, walkable, and has parks everywhere. It's growing fast, too. Many of the original houses are being demolished to build large apartment buildings.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
We live in a quiet, walkable neighborhood about two blocks away from my in-laws. We see them almost every day. They babysit when we need help, like right now, when we're sick and they're watching my daughter. We love having their support.
Bogotá, Colombia.
Arturo Rosenow/Getty Images
We live rent-free in an apartment unit that my in-laws invested in — we definitely know that's a privilege.
The apartment is about 900 square feet, much smaller than the 1,800-square-foot, four-bedroom home we lived in Austin. We definitely downsized, and I do miss my backyard occasionally. But living here, I realize we don't need all that space.A lot of the apartments in Bogotá are small because the culture here isn't really meant for staying at home. Everyone here lives an active lifestyle; they're always outside and moving, and no one sits around and watches TV all day.
Bogotá, Colombia.
Devasahayam Chandra Dhas/Getty Images
In Bogotá, I get 10,000 steps daily just by going to markets and walking my daughter to school.
I have a very young baby, and sending her to school in the US terrified me. Here, it almost feels like a fantasy. Her teachers are really diverse, and they seem to really care for her. The day care also has a chef on-site who makes them homemade meals every day.With the support from my in-laws and the safety I feel here, I've been thriving in Bogotá. It's helped my mental health and my life in so many ways.We're saving a lot of money on childcareWe have extremely affordable childcare in Bogotá, and healthcare, where doctors come to my home, and it's included in our monthly payment.
My husband and my daughter are on the healthcare system here, which costs us $120 a month. I'm still not on the healthcare system, but for a doctor to come to our home and give me prescriptions, it's only $35.The biggest reduction in our monthly expenses has been in childcare: day care went from $1,200 a month to $300.We're also saving on groceries. For example, I can buy a 30-pack of eggs for $4. There are markets everywhere, too. We don't go on a monthly grocery haul; instead, we get fresh fruit and vegetables for the day and re-up if we need more.
Housing has also had a huge impact on our finances. While we live in Colombia, we rent out the home in Austin on Airbnb and VRBO as a mid-term rental (30 days plus). It's been booked solid since July. Our current renter is staying from August to October, and we've earned nearly $4,000 from their stay.I think keeping the house is a good investment. We purchased it in 2016 for $228,000 and have a monthly mortgage of around $2,000. We've owned it for almost 10 years, and it has a great mortgage rate. Plus, we have a lot of equity in it.I'm less stressed in ColombiaThe pace of life in Colombia is much slower, and I've learned to appreciate it. It has made me a lot more present and patient.
My in-laws have a house in the mountains. We go there for a week at a time, and I feel more at ease and creative there. It's where I create all my LinkedIn content.
Jamali in her in-laws' backyard, overlooking Bogota, Colombia.
Courtesy of Jenn Jamali
Because stressors don't block my creativity, I've been able to grow my businesses. In addition to coaching, I also work with social media influencers to develop brand partnerships.I don't plan on moving back to the US. I don't miss the rush, the noise, or the division. Life in Colombia is way less stressful. I feel more connected to my community and like I'm at home.
Recommended video
Mover
as told to
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account