VC giant Insight Partners warns thousands after ransomware breach
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
This $80 refurbished Lenovo chromebook Is a good deal right now
Canada dismantles TradeOgre exchange, seizes $40 million in crypto
Stay fit and connected — and spend 68% less on an Apple Watch
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityVC giant Insight Partners warns thousands after ransomware breach
VC giant Insight Partners warns thousands after ransomware breach
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 17, 2025
01:50 PM
0
New York-based venture capital and private equity firm Insight Partners is notifying thousands of individuals whose personal information was stolen in a ransomware attack.
The company disclosed the cybersecurity incident in February, when it said that a threat actor gained access to its network following a "sophisticated social engineering attack."
Two months later, Insight Partners confirmed that the attackers had also stolen sensitive data during the breach, including banking and tax information, personal information of current and former employees, information related to limited partners, as well as fund, management company, and portfolio company information.
"Formal notification letters are being mailed to all individuals whose data was impacted, including complimentary credit or identity monitoring services. Please note that, if you have not received a notification letter by the end of September 2025, then we have determined your personal data was not impacted by the incident," it said in a subsequent statement.
While no ransomware gangs have yet claimed responsibility, Insight Partners revealed in breach notifications filed with California's attorney general on Monday and first spotted by TechCrunch, that the threat actors breached its network in October and encrypted servers on January 16 after exfiltrating data.
"Insight Partners' investigation into the incident determined that, on or around October 25, 2024, a threat actor successfully used a sophisticated social engineering attack to gain access to the affected servers," the company said.
"Once inside, the threat actor began exfiltrating data from these servers, and beginning at or around 10:00 a.m. EST on January 16, 2025, began encrypting these servers."
In a filing with Maine's attorney general this week, the company also disclosed that the resulting data breach affects 12,657 individuals.
Insight Partners manages over $90 billion in regulatory assets and has invested in more than 800 software and technology startups worldwide throughout its 30-year history.
An Insight Partners spokesperson has not yet responded to several requests for comment from BleepingComputer regarding the incident.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Panama Ministry of Economy discloses breach claimed by INC ransomwareLovesac confirms data breach after ransomware attack claimsMATLAB dev says ransomware gang stole data of 10,000 peopleNissan confirms design studio data breach claimed by Qilin ransomwareDaVita says ransomware gang stole data of nearly 2.7 million people
Data Breach
Insight Partners
Ransomware
Social Engineering
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
Google patches sixth Chrome zero-day exploited in attacks this year
WatchGuard warns of critical vulnerability in Firebox firewalls
Sponsor Posts
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT