WaPo Fired Columnist Citing 2 Social Posts After Charlie Kirk Killing - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
WaPo fired a columnist after Charlie Kirk's killing. These are the 2 social posts it cited.
By
Lucia Moses
and
James Faris
Karen Attiah was fired by The Washington Post.
ISABEL INFANTES/AFP via Getty Images
2025-09-16T15:47:58Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
The Washington Post fired columnist Karen Attiah, citing two social-media posts about white men in the wake of Charlie Kirk's killing.
Attiah's firing prompted concerns from the Post's guild and free press advocates.
Two Post insiders said Attiah had been confronted multiple times by management about social posts.
Washington Post columnist Karen Attiah made a flurry of social media posts after Charlie Kirk's death. The Post cited two Bluesky posts in particular that led to her firing.
Attiah published a Substack post on Monday saying she was fired for "speaking out against political violence, racial double standards, and America's apathy toward guns."The Post's termination letter to her quotes one of her posts that said, "Refusing to tear my clothes and smear ashes on my face in performative mourning for a white man that espoused violence is….not the same as violence." A second post quoted in the letter says, "Part of what keeps America so violent is the insistence that people perform care, empty goodness and absolution for white men who espouse hatred and violence."
"Your postings on Bluesky (which clearly identifies you as a Post Columnist) about white men in response to the killing of Charlie Kirk do not comply with our policy," the letter says. The Post's policy prohibits postings that disparage people based on their race, gender, or other protected characteristics.The media newsletter Status earlier published a copy of the letter, and Attiah confirmed its authenticity to Business Insider.A Washington Post spokesperson said the paper doesn't comment on personnel matters.
Two Post insiders with direct knowledge said Attiah had been confronted multiple times by the paper's management over her social-media posts. At least one case became public: In 2020, she apologized on social media for erroneously saying that a new French law targeted Muslim children.The two insiders also said that when the paper offered buyouts several months ago, Attiah was encouraged to take one. She chose to stay.Attiah didn't comment on her previous discussions with management about her social media posts or the buyout offer.
In her Substack post, she said: "I was the last remaining Black full-time opinion columnist at the Post, in one of the nation's most diverse regions." She added: "What happened to me is part of a broader purge of Black voices from academia, business, government, and media — a historical pattern as dangerous as it is shameful — and tragic."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The firing has drawn strong rebuke from the Post's union and press advocates, who worry that it reflects a political climate chilling free expression. The Post Guild, the union representing Post employees, including Attiah, said on X that it condemned her "unjust firing" over social-media posts."The firing and suspension of multiple journalists after the fatal shooting of Charlie Kirk should alarm anyone who cares about free speech and a free press," said Suzanne Trimel, a spokeswoman for the freedom of expression advocacy organization PEN America, referencing the firing of MSNBC contributor Matthew Dowd and the suspension of Florida Politics reporter A.G. Gancarski.
Dowd was fired after saying on air in the wake of Kirk's shooting that "hateful thoughts lead to hateful words, which then lead to hateful actions." The CEO of MSNBC parent Comcast, along with two other company leaders, subsequently sent a memo to staff urging them to "maintain a respectful exchange of ideas.""I didn't see anything in her posts that I thought was so extreme and in such awful taste that I would expect her to lose her job over that — under normal circumstances," Seth Stern, the director of advocacy at Freedom of the Press Foundation, said of Attiah.Companies outside the media ecosystem, including Nasdaq and Delta, have taken action after employees posted about Kirk's killing. Nasdaq said it fired an employee because it has "a zero-tolerance policy toward violence and any commentary that condones or celebrates violence." Delta suspended an unknown number of staffers, with its CEO writing they were under investigation because their posts "went well beyond healthy, respectful debate."
Attiah's firing comes a few months after the Jeff Bezos-owned Post overhauled its opinion section, which now focuses on "personal liberties and free markets." That led to the departure of opinion editor David Shipley and several of his colleagues, and the appointment of Adam O'Neal to replace him in June.Attiah joined the Post in 2014. She recruited Saudi writer Jamal Khashoggi and later won a number of awards for her reporting on his murder.
Recommended video
Shooting
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account