Microsoft fixes Windows 11 audio issues confirmed in December
News
Featured
Latest
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
LastPass: Fake password managers infect Mac users with malware
Airport disruptions in Europe caused by a ransomware attack
American Archive of Public Broadcasting fixes bug exposing restricted media
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsMicrosoftMicrosoft fixes Windows 11 audio issues confirmed in December
Microsoft fixes Windows 11 audio issues confirmed in December
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 15, 2025
09:48 AM
0
Microsoft has removed a safeguard hold that prevented some users from upgrading their systems to Windows 11 24H2 due to compatibility issues that were causing Bluetooth headsets and speakers to malfunction.
As the company explained when it acknowledged this bug in December, the issue affected systems with Dirac audio improvement software, which also triggered problems with audio device detection and caused integrated speakers to stop functioning.
"The incompatibility relates to the software component cridspapo.dll, which is part of these devices' audio processing software," Microsoft said in December.
"After installing Windows 11, version 24H2, some users reported that their device's integrated speakers, Bluetooth speakers, and Bluetooth headsets stopped functioning. They also reported that both first-party and third-party applications didn't recognize these devices."
On Friday, almost nine months after confirming the bug, Microsoft announced that it has now lifted the update block preventing Windows 24H2 upgrades on Windows devices with Dirac audio software.
While it may take several days before the upgrade to Windows 11, version 24H2 is offered, affected users can restart their device, which may cause the upgrades to speed up this process.
"A new version of the driver has been made available via Windows Update, which addresses this issue. We recommend you install the latest security update for your device as it contains important improvements and issue resolutions, including this one," the company said.
"The safeguard hold has been removed as of September 11, 2025. Eligible devices with no other safeguard hold should now be able to install Windows 11, version 24H2 via the Windows Update release channel."
Windows 11 24H2 was released to eligible devices running Windows 11 22H2/23H2 in October, following its initial rollout in May 2024 for enterprise testing with customers in the Windows Insider Release Preview Channel.
While Microsoft has lifted other safeguard holds since the start of the year, Windows 11 24H2 upgrades are still blocked for Windows devices with incompatible Intel Smart Sound Technology (SST) audio drivers, SenseShield Technology code-obfuscation drivers, wallpaper customization software, and integrated cameras.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Microsoft lifts Windows 11 update block after face detection fixMicrosoft fixes bug behind Windows certificate enrollment errorsMicrosoft says recent Windows update didn't kill your SSDMicrosoft asks customers for feedback on reported SSD failuresMicrosoft reportedly fixing SSD failures caused by Windows updates
Audio
Compatibility Hold
Dirac Audio
Known Issue
Safeguard Hold
Windows
Windows 11
Windows 11 24H2
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Microsoft starts rolling out Gaming Copilot on Windows 11 PCs
CISA exposes malware kits deployed in Ivanti EPMM attacks
Sponsor Posts
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT