The 9 Best Indoor Smart Gardens You Can Buy in 2025, Tested by CNET Staff - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Smart Home
The 9 Best Indoor Smart Gardens You Can Buy in 2025, Tested by CNET Staff
These are our favorite picks for bringing indoor gardening to life.
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Written by
Nasha Addarich Martínez
Article updated on August 27, 2025 at 9:56 AM PDT
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Nasha Addarich Martínez Managing Editor Nasha is a Managing Editor for CNET, overseeing our sleep and wellness verticals. She is a nutrition, mental health, fitness and sleep science enthusiast. Her passion for mindful and holistic practices transcends her personal life and profoundly influences her editorial approach, as she weaves evidence-based insights with practical advice to inspire readers to lead healthier, more balanced lives. Throughout her career, she's covered various topics including financial services, technology, travel and wellness. Expertise Sleep | Mental health | Personal Care | Fitness | Nutrition | Medical | Wellness | Vitamins and Supplements | Vision Health | Longevity Credentials Sleep Science Coach Certification from The Spencer Institute.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Gone are the days where the only way to grow your own vegetables is to own a bunch of land or live in the right area for the crops you want to have. With indoor smart gardens you can bring your green thumb into an apartment or rented home without the worry of yard space. They have great designs that don't have to take up a lot of space. With built-in LED lighting and soil-free hydroponic technology, you can grow everything from herbs to salad greens and vegetables -- bringing true garden-to-table cooking right to your kitchen. Our Picks
Best indoor smart garden for most Click & Grow Smart Garden 3
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart garden for microgreens Ingarden
Jump to details
$149 at Amazon
Jump to details
Most stylish indoor garden Smart Growhouse
Jump to details
$266 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best smart garden that doubles as furniture Rise Single Hydroponic Garden
Jump to details
$599 at Rise Gardens
Jump to details
Best indoor smart garden for low-maintenance plant parents Gardyn Studio
Jump to details
$399 at Gardyn
Jump to details
Best vertical indoor smart garden Lettuce Grow Farmstand
Jump to details
$574 at Lettuce Grow
Jump to details
Another option for microgreens Chef'n Microgreens Grower
Jump to details
$20 at Amazon
Jump to details
A big garden for small spaces Gardyn Home 4.0
Jump to details
$719 at Gardyn
Jump to details
Best smart garden for herbs and salad greens AeroGarden Bounty Elite (Update: Currently unavailable)
Jump to details
$429 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 4 more
Table of Contents
The 9 Best Indoor Smart Gardens You Can Buy in 2025, Tested by CNET Staff
What is the best overall indoor smart garden?
Best indoor smart gardens for 2025
Best indoor smart garden for most
Best smart garden for microgreens
Most stylish indoor garden
Best smart garden that doubles as furniture
Best indoor smart garden for low-maintenance plant parents
Best vertical indoor smart garden
Another option for microgreens
A big garden for small spaces
Best smart garden for herbs and salad greens
Best Places to Buy Plants Online for 2025
See at Cnet
What is the best overall indoor smart garden?After testing a number of indoor smart garden setups, the Click & Grow Smart Garden 3 takes top billing for being extremely user-friendly. It's just the right size for growing microgreens (herbs like basil and mint), and it comes with a self-contained seed pods, LED grow lights and a water thank that can go two weeks without needing to be refilled. The Aerogarden Bounty Elite is another option we like. Like the Click & Grow, it's small and light enough to be moved around the house. Bigger indoor garden units -- Lettuce Grow Farmstand and RiseGarden -- take up more space but can hold as many as 36 plants at once. You'll also find options for special indoor gardens for growing microgreens and others that emphasize style and simplicity over complex mechanisms and mobile app integrations. Many of these garden system options will even come with seeds.To find additional options for the best indoor smart gardens for 2025, take a look at some of the below indoor grow systems.Best indoor smart gardens for 2025
Click and Grow
Photo Gallery 1/1
Click and Grow
Best indoor smart garden for most
Click & Grow Smart Garden 3
I've tried this very unit and it's a perfectly sized smart garden for growing essential herbs like basil, mint and chives and salad greens. It couldn't be simpler to operate, with self-contained seed pods, LED grow lights and a water tank that needs filling only every two or three weeks. A perfect starter herb garden for someone with a not-so-green thumb.This Click & Grow Smart Garden 3 comes with three basil pods, but you can buy any number of salad greens, fruit and vegetable seed pods from the website for about $3 each. With room for just three plants, this particular garden is a little small to grow much in the way of vegetables, so best to stick to herbs and lettuce. There are loads of flower pods, however, if your gardening goals are more aesthetic.There are several larger Click & Grow models, all of which function in the same manner. These include the Smart Garden 9, which can hold nine seed pods, and the multilevel Smart Garden 27 which holds, you guessed it, 27 seed pods.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Click & Grow
Ingarden
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ingarden
Best smart garden for microgreens
Ingarden
A nutritionist might tell you microgreens are a vastly underused source of nutrition. As a bonus: They're rather easy to grow at home. Ingarden is a new sleek smart garden designed to do just that and it's compact enough to fit on your windowsill or bookshelf.The Ingarden is completely soil-free but wicks water up into three seed pads that sit above a reservoir. LED grow lights under the handle run on a timer and keep the microgreens growing -- and they grow fast. You'll have sprouts in a few days and full-grown microgreens like mustard, radish and broccoli in about a week to sprinkle on salads and sandwiches, and into sauces and soups. My favorite thing about the Ingarden is the simple sleek design made with only ceramic and metal and no plastic. Compact, clean and easy to use, it's the perfect smart garden for someone dipping their toe into the indoor garden game.  ... Show more
Get it now
$149 at Amazon
Smart Growhouse
Photo Gallery 1/1
Smart Growhouse
Most stylish indoor garden
Smart Growhouse
The Smart Growhouse is one of the more basic indoor gardens on this list but we love it for its stylish brass exterior. It doesn't hold hydroponic seed pods or self-water like some of the others, so you'll have to manage that part on your own, but there are full-spectrum LED lights that operate on a timer for optimal growth. That means you can display the garden anywhere in the house and not just near a window.Admittedly, the $249 price tag is hefty considering the low-tech nature of this indoor garden. But if the classic copper finish could enhance your motif, it might be worth the extra money.   ... Show more
Get it now
$266 at Amazon
Rise Gardens
Photo Gallery 1/1
Rise Gardens
Best smart garden that doubles as furniture
Rise Single Hydroponic Garden
If you're looking for a stylish indoor garden that blends effortlessly into your living space, the Rise Single smart hydroponic garden is a good pick. This self-watering garden is completely hydroponic, meaning there are no soil pods to handle. It comes with a 5-gallon water tank and LED grow lights, all of which are controlled and monitored through an integrated mobile app. The water levels, light settings and nutrient levels all have built-in sensors that report back information to keep things humming. The Single smart garden houses up to 36 plants, and you can add levels to increase the shoot capacity for a steady supply of fresh herbs, greens, flowers and even tomatoes. Sprouted seedlings come in packs of four for $12. What really separates Rise from others, in my view, is the sturdy heavy-gauge steel and solid wood design that makes it look very much like a modern piece of furniture. The Rise Garden can be placed behind a couch or against a wall to serve as a chic bookshelf or end table as well as a garden.  ... Show more
Get it now
$599 at Rise Gardens
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best indoor smart garden for low-maintenance plant parents
Gardyn Studio
I recently moved to New York City from Puerto Rico, and one of the things I missed the most was growing produce in my backyard. I wanted something that would allow me to grow a variety of things, but not occupy too much space because, frankly, I just don't have too much to spare. The Gardyn Studio (the smaller sister of the Gardyn Home, which is also on this list) makes me feel like a plant whisperer without doing too much legwork to keep the plants alive. The setup was quick and straightforward, it took around 30 minutes (unboxing, setting up the system and planting the yCubes -- Gardyn's pre-seeded pods). Once it was set up in my dining area and in the app, it practically ran on its own. It waters itself, adjusts the grow lights and sends me notifications if my attention is needed.What stands out about this device is how sleek and compact it looks. Even though it's larger than a countertop garden, the vertical design lets me grow more without taking up too much real estate in my home. It holds up to 16 pods, so while it's small, you still get a good amount of greens. Being able to snip basil, lettuce or fresh flowers felt like a small connection with my love for gardening, especially during the winter months when produce isn't the best.While this device is really convenient, the watering system makes a subtle noise when watering for about 5 minutes a day. Your plants also need around 12-16 hours of light. Since the system comes with a built-in LED light system, you don't need to have it close to a window. But if you live in a studio or plan to place it close to your bedroom, the lighting may disrupt your sleep, so you'll have to schedule the lighting around your preference.If you're someone who loves the idea of growing your own food without dealing with the soil or you simply don't have the space outdoors, Gardyn studio is a great option.  ... Show more
Get it now
$399 at Gardyn
Lettuce Grow
Photo Gallery 1/1
Lettuce Grow
Best vertical indoor smart garden
Lettuce Grow Farmstand
I've personally used this indoor/outdoor farmstand and can tell you it's well-designed and easy to operate. The Lettuce Grow Farmstand works by pumping water mixed with nutrients up from the base, so that it cascades down over seed pods that are stuffed into the walls. I had this going for a few weeks indoors and without lights and while some shoots did fine, many died. Enter the LED ring lights, which made an enormous difference. (I've actually had to cut back on the grow lights because things are growing too quickly.) Both the water pump and LED light rings operate on timers so there's almost no weekly maintenance required.It's worth mentioning that the watering system makes a moderate amount of noise -- akin to one of those Zen water fountains -- for about 15 minutes every few hours. It was mildly irritating at first but I quickly adjusted and now I find it relaxing. The frame is also heavy once you fill it with water, so it's not something to be moved often. It's bulky, too, but when the greenery starts to bloom it adds a ton of life and atmosphere to any room. That said, it's still probably not great for a tiny home or apartment. Pricing starts at $873 for the small indoor Farmstand, which holds 18 shoots, but you can add levels and increase the capacity to as many as 36 shoots. The optional ring lights are $200 for the basic two-ring package and $100 for each additional ring. Starter seedlings are included, and it's recommended that you replace them every few months.  ... Show more
Get it now
$574 at Lettuce Grow
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Another option for microgreens
Chef'n Microgreens Grower
This little guy is designed especially for microgreens, which are great for garnishing soups, salads and other fancy recipes. It's always nice to have a pop of green on the kitchen counter, and this gadget doesn't take up much space at all. The microgreens garden kit consists of the planter, soil and seeds for your first round of plants, all for under $30.Unlike the Ingarden, this model has no LED lights so you'll have to keep it in direct sunlight most of the time.   ... Show more
Get it now
$20 at Amazon
Read more: The Best Snack Boxes From Around the World
Photo Gallery 1/1
A big garden for small spaces
Gardyn Home 4.0
This is another hydroponic garden option, but one that is decidedly better suited for a small space. The Gardyn upright grow system houses as many as 30 plants but takes up just 2 square feet. Individual shoots are watered via the tank and pump, which circulates water on a timer. Built-in LED lights -- also on a timer -- trigger that sweet, sweet photosynthesis. The Gardyn system self-monitors with sensors and actual cameras so you don't have a ton of work to do other than cleaning and refilling the tank every month or so.While it does carry a hefty price tag -- $764, plus shoots -- the Gardyn is very efficient. Just ask CNET's own Bridget Carey, who took the Gardyn for a lengthy test drive recently and had success growing herbs, tomatoes and lots and lots of salad greens. Read her full review of the Gardyn smart hydroponic indoor garden for everything you could possibly want to know.  ... Show more
Get it now
$719 at Gardyn
Megan Wollerton
Photo Gallery 1/1
Megan Wollerton
Best smart garden for herbs and salad greens
AeroGarden Bounty Elite (Update: Currently unavailable)
The AeroGarden Bounty Elite Artisan is a relatively compact indoor gardening system that, out of the box, manages to make room for nine plants of your choosing -- the options range widely from herb mixes to tomatoes, peppers and flowers. As the plants grow, the adjustable LED light stand can grow with them, up to 24 inches in height. Plant food is included, as well as an optional trellis system, which is designed to accommodate tomatoes and other plants that need support as they grow.I'm in the early stages of growing nine lavender plants right now, but AeroGarden has made the process incredibly simple so far. The instructions walk you through the initial setup clearly, and the display alerts you when you need to add more plant food.While the Click & Grow system has a reservoir and wicks water up into the soil pods, the AeroGarden uses a pump to circulate moisture. Fortunately, the pump sounds like gentle dripping rather than anything distracting.  ... Show more
Get it now
$429 at Amazon
Read more: The 8 Best Places to Buy Plants Online for 2025
Best Indoor Garden FAQ
What vegetables grow best indoors?
Leafy greens such as lettuce, spinach, kale and arugula thrive best in indoor settings because they mature quickly and don't need pollination. Herbs like basil, mint, cilantro and chives also do well indoors with minimal space requirements. Small-fruiting vegetables like cherry tomatoes and peppers can also thrive with proper lighting and care. Root vegetables including carrots do better in deeper containers, while microgreens are nearly foolproof and can be harvested in as little as a week.
What is the best plant to grow indoors?
Herbs are the most rewarding plants for indoor growing, with basil being the top recommendation for beginners. Basil thrives in bright conditions, grows quickly with minimal care and is incredibly useful. Other great options include mint (a vigorous grower), rosemary (fragrant and versatile) and microgreens (nutrient-rich with minimal effort). For ornamental value and air-purifying benefits, snake plants and pothos are quite easy and forgiving for beginners.
About the Author
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen
David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week.
Read full bio
Also written by
Nasha Addarich Martínez Managing Editor
Smart Home Guides
Smart Home
Best Smart Lights
Best LED Floodlight
Best Alexa Devices
Best Smart Garage Door Opener Controller
Generator vs. Battery
Best Indoor Smart Gardens
Tesla Solar Panels Review
Best Smart Home Devices
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Apple Homekit Devices
Best Google Assistant & Nest Device
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.