Should You Replace Your Fluoride Toothpaste With Nano-Hydroxyapatite? Dentists Weigh In - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our wellness advice is expert-vetted. Our top picks are based on our editors’ independent research, analysis, and hands-on testing. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. Reviews ethics statement
WellnessPersonal Care Dental Care
Should You Replace Your Fluoride Toothpaste With Nano-Hydroxyapatite? Dentists Weigh In
Nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste is a fluoride-free alternative. This is who dentists say it's best for.
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II Anna Gragert (she/her/hers) was previously the lifestyle editor at HelloGiggles, deputy editor at So Yummy and senior lifestyle editor at Hunker. Over the past 10+ years, Anna has also written for the L.A. Times, Elle, Bust Magazine, Dazed, Apartment Therapy, Well+Good and more, focusing on all things lifestyle, health and wellness. Expertise Mental health, Personal care, Nutrition, Sleep
See full bio
Anna Gragert
Sept. 22, 2025
3:04 a.m. PT 10 min read
RealPeopleGroup/Getty Images
While the debate around fluoride continues, many are considering switching their fluoride toothpastes to alternatives that include the popular ingredient nano-hydroxyapatite. "As ingredient labels shift toward cleaner, fluoride-free formulas, one compound is taking center stage in modern oral care: nano-hydroxyapatite," explains Dr. Pia Lieb, DDS, cosmetic dentist and clinical assistant professor emerita at NYU College of Dentistry. If you're thinking about trying a nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste but aren't sure if it's right for you, we spoke to dentists to break down the benefits, potential risks and whether this ingredient actually works.Best Whitening Toothpaste of 2025, According to Dentists
See at CNET
What is nano-hydroxyapatite?"Nano-hydroxyapatite is a synthetic calcium phosphate compound that's used in some oral care products, including toothpastes," explains Dr. Ada Cooper, consumer advisor and spokesperson for the American Dental Association, says. "[It] has a structure that is similar to hydroxyapatite found in enamel, and nHAP gets incorporated into the tooth structure preferentially in demineralized areas." Nano-hydroxyapatite is also abbreviated as n-HA and n-HAp.Dr. Royce Lai of King Village Dental adds that this is technically a two-part question, since "hydroxyapatite has been around for decades and has been studied for at least 20 years." Newer and less studied, nano-hydroxyapatite is a version of hydroxyapatite with small, rod-shaped particles. "Hydroxyapatite is natural. It is a type of calcium that makes up bones and teeth," says Lai. "Nano-hydroxyapatite relates to the particle size. These are between 20 and 80 nanometers and are much smaller than the hydroxyapatite tubules that are a part of your teeth." According to Dr. Daniela Eversgerd, a cosmetic dentist and the founder of Allure Dental, nano-hydroxyapatite was developed by NASA in the 1970s for astronauts dealing with bone and enamel loss during long periods of space travel. Since the early 1990s, it has been approved for oral care products in Japan. Nano-hydroxyapatite benefits in toothpaste"Nano-hydroxyapatite doesn't just protect your teeth -- it helps rebuild them," says Dr. Catrise Austin, a cosmetic dentist, author of Gum Health Made Simple and host of the Let's Talk Smiles podcast. She lists the following as potential nano-hydroxyapatite benefits:Enamel remineralizationTooth sensitivity reliefReduced bacterial adhesionWhitening and gloss enhancement"n-HA can actually fill microscopic cracks and help reverse or arrest early cavities," adds dentist Dr. Sandip Sachar.Austin cites a 2019 study that found a 10% hydroxyapatite toothpaste is equivalent or non-inferior to fluoride toothpaste for preventing and remineralizing dental cavities (or caries) in children.
When it comes to teeth sensitivity, Lai cites a 2014 study concluding that 15% nano-hydroxyapatite helped sensitive teeth. "The particle size could get into space and work better than larger particles in micro-hydroxyapatite or fluoride," he explains. "The conclusion was that nano-hydroxyapatite could significantly reduce tooth sensitivity to hot and cold in two to four weeks of use."Referencing an 18-month 2023 clinical trial finding that a 10% n-HAp toothpaste protected adult teeth from new cavities as well as a standard 1,450-ppm fluoride paste, Dr. Christopher Tolmie, DDS, MBA, of PDS Health, states, "By patching enamel and calming swollen gums, nano-hydroxyapatite may cut off a hidden spark of chronic inflammation linked to heart disease and diabetes." Since nano-hydroxyapatite toothpastes are fluoride free, Dr. Yenile Y. Pinto, DDS, functional and biomimetic dentist and founder of Deering Dental, adds, "It's also been shown to reduce sensitivity and strengthen the enamel surface without the risk of fluorosis." Fluorosis occurs when you get too much fluoride as a child, causing white or brown spots on the teeth. The CDC reports that fluorosis typically doesn't affect tooth function and isn't painful. A 2020 systematic review of 32 studies concluded that "Nano-HA is a relatively novel material with outstanding physical, chemical, mechanical and biological properties that makes it suitable for multiple interventions. It outperformed most of the classic materials used in implantology and surgery, but it should be further investigated for bone engineering and caries prevention therapy."
Henglein and Steets/Getty ImagesA 2023 comprehensive review found that, while more long-term studies are needed to establish the safety of regular use, "Nanohydroxyapatite is a promising revolutionary material in the prevention of early carious lesion mainly due to a greater source of free calcium."Ultimately, providing a 2021 review and 2022 scoping review, Cooper concludes, "Although there is some evidence that alternative ingredients, such as [nano] hydroxyapatite, prevent tooth decay by acting as a remineralizing or anti-cavity agent, the studies are preliminary. The only anti-cavity agent recognized by the Food and Drug Administration in its over-the-counter monograph is fluoride, a naturally occurring chemical." Cooper adds that all toothpastes with the ADA Seal of Acceptance contain fluoride. The administration specifically recommends brushing your teeth twice a day with fluoride toothpaste and regularly visiting your dentist. You're Using Your Electric Toothbrush Wrong. Common Mistakes and How to Do It Right
See at CNET
Nano-hydroxyapatite risks in toothpaste"According to a [2021] narrative review from Odontology, the official journal of the Society of the Nippon Dental University, so far, there have been no reports of adverse dental or systemic effects of HAP-containing toothpastes because HAP has an excellent biocompatibility," states Cooper. According to Austin, the concern with nano-hydroxyapatite is that, because it's made of nanoparticles, some worry about how much might get absorbed into the body if regularly swallowed. "The European Commission's Scientific Committee raised concerns due to the lack of long-term safety data on ingestion, particularly in children," she says. This has led to temporary nano-hydroxyapatite restrictions (not a full-on banning) in Europe. The European Scientific Committee deems nHA safe in toothpaste up to 29.5% and up to 10% in mouthwash, per Tolmie. However, he states, "Regulators still bar it from breath-spray products to avoid lung exposure, so stick to pastes and rinses."Key concerns around nano-hydroxyapatite, according to Lieb, are: Potential ingestion and systemic absorption, especially in nano formLack of long-term studies in humans on the cumulative effectsUnknown impact of inhalation from aerosol products (not toothpaste)In terms of systemic absorption, Sachar specifies, "Because nano-hydroxyapatite particles are similar in composition to bone mineral, there has been some theoretical concern that if absorbed systemically, they could potentially contribute to unwanted calcifications in soft tissues (like blood vessels or kidneys)." However, she states that this is speculative and not supported by any current clinical evidence.
Sally Anscombe/Getty ImagesIs nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste only effective at 10%?"Most clinical formulations of nHA range from 5%-15%, with 10% emerging as the benchmark concentration in several Japanese and European studies," answers Lieb. "This concentration has demonstrated reliable enamel restoration while maintaining product stability and usability."However, she states that newer formulations are experimenting with lower concentrations and enhanced delivery systems (such as encapsulation or synergistic minerals), which may improve efficacy at reduced levels. "The effectiveness isn't just about percentage, it's also about particle quality and how it's delivered to the tooth surface," she explains. Tolmie adds, "Effective repair starts as low as 5% and plateaus around 10-15%. Several studies show that 5% n-HAp can mend enamel dings, divots and dents in the teeth, with benefits leveling off somewhere between 10% and 15%. One review even noted that 5% sometimes beats 10% because fewer particles clump, making them easier to slip into enamel defects; hence, most US brands sit comfortably in the 5-10% sweet spot."We also reached out to Dr. Foti Panagakos, who's a part of Boka's Oral Health Advisory Committee. "While there is a lot of discussion around nano-hydroxyapatite concentration and its effectiveness, what matters most is how it is formulated and the fact that the ingredient is backed by research," he explains. "This includes how nano-hydroxyapatite is stabilized, delivered and supported by other ingredients, which is why at Boka, years were spent working with oral health professionals to ensure our formula delivers on both safety and performance. Each tube of Boka toothpaste contains a precisely balanced concentration of nano-hydroxyapatite -- high enough to deliver measurable benefits and safe for daily use, with a formula that's gentle on dentin."Should you replace your fluoride toothpaste with nano-hydroxyapatite?Eversgerd states that it all depends on each person's oral health needs. "Fluoride remains the gold standard for cavity prevention, supported by decades of large-scale, randomized controlled trials," she explains. "However, for patients seeking a fluoride alternative -- whether due to sensitivity, allergies, personal preferences or a desire for a biomimetic approach -- nano-hydroxyapatite provides a scientifically supported option."According to the Academy of Biomimetic Dentistry, a biomimetic approach is one in which damaged teeth are restored using materials mimicking natural teeth in function, strength and appearance. For high-risk patients, Eversgerd recommends fluoride, while she may recommend n-Ha to low-risk or fluoride-averse individuals.Austin seconds this, but adds that she also recommends fluoride toothpaste to children with poor brushing habits or communities with limited dental access. "nHA is a great option, but it's not a one-size-fits-all replacement for fluoride -- yet," Austin says. Lieb explains that nHA may also be a compelling alternative for patients with aesthetic concerns, such as whitening-induced sensitivity, and individuals in preventive care regimens post-restorative treatment.Pinto agrees that it depends on the person, stating, "For most of my patients, especially those with low to moderate cavity risk, nano-hydroxyapatite is an excellent option; gentler on the mouth, less drying and effective at rebuilding early damage. For people with high cavity risk, fluoride might still be the best choice, at least short term. For my high-risk patients, I often recommend a combo toothpaste that includes both ingredients when appropriate." Ultimately, if a patient isn't high risk and has health or safety concerns about fluoride, she thinks hydroxyapatite is a great option.When asked if there's a reason people should choose n-HAp over other anti-cavity toothpastes, Tolmie answers, "No, as long as patients are brushing their teeth with an anti-cavity toothpaste. There are differences in the way an n-HAp toothpaste and a fluoride toothpaste work to prevent decay, and some n-HAp toothpastes may feel smoother on the teeth. But anti-cavity toothpastes as a whole accomplish the same task. Do I wash a car with tap water or bottled water? We know that both of them get the job done."What's most important, according to Tolmie, is that patients ensure they're not swallowing toothpaste.What does the American Dental Association think? Cooper states that the ADA recommends brushing teeth twice daily for two minutes with fluoride toothpaste, as the naturally occurring mineral has been proven to remineralize weakened enamel and reverse early signs of tooth decay. "Additionally, the fluoride you take in from drinking water and other beverages continues to provide a topical benefit because it becomes part of your saliva, constantly bathing the teeth and helping to rebuild weakened tooth enamel," Cooper further explains. "The best scientific evidence has shown that adding fluoride to community water supplies is safe and effective. This is backed by decades of research and recognized by more than 100 health organizations."
Goodboy Picture Company/Getty ImagesDoes nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste work? All of the dentists we consulted agree that nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste works, but in the right context and with the right product. It's also not a miracle cure and should not replace your entire oral care routine, dentist's recommendations or regular appointments. Plus, Eversgerd adds that more long-term, large-scale trials are needed to fully validate whether it's equal to fluoride in preventing cavities. When asked if it's effective, Austin says, "Yes -- particularly for enamel remineralization and sensitivity. In my practice, I've seen patients who switched to nHA toothpaste experience noticeable improvements in comfort, plaque control and surface smoothness. But like any product, it works best when paired with consistent brushing, flossing and professional cleanings."Pinto agrees and has also seen the results firsthand. "It helps remineralize enamel, soothe sensitivity and support a healthier oral microbiome, especially when paired with a good routine (good home hygiene, healthy diet, hydration and nasal breathing)," she explains, noting that it's not a miracle cure, but does offer many benefits.On behalf of the ADA, Cooper echoes Eversgerd's earlier statement: "The use of nano-hydroxyapatite (nHAP) in over-the-counter products is growing, and some evidence shows that nHAP may contribute to remineralization, but the evidence is fairly new and often ambiguous, especially regarding clinical indications. "Do experts recommend nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste?All of the experts we consulted do recommend nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste, but only for certain patients. After all, according to Austin, "Nearly half of US adults over 30 have some form of gum disease, and you can't out-toothpaste a bad hygiene routine." Brushing your teeth regularly, flossing and regularly visiting your dentist are still essential, no matter what toothpaste you use. Though Lieb recommends nHA toothpaste for adult patients experiencing post-whitening sensitivity or early enamel erosion, low-caries risk individuals seeking natural alternatives and adults undergoing cosmetic dental work who want to protect their investment with gentle, remineralizing care, she doesn't recommend nano-hydroxyapatite for children with deciduous dentition. "In my professional opinion, fluoride remains the safest and most effective option for all patients under 14," says Lieb. "Its protective effect during the development of permanent dentition is unmatched, and its caries-prevention record is well established."Sachar states that she often recommends it for "patients seeking fluoride-free options, those with mild tooth sensitivity and for children at risk of swallowing fluoride toothpaste." However, she advises that patients with moderate to high cavity risk not fully abandon fluoride. Again, it's important to note that the "ADA recommends that adults brush their teeth twice daily with fluoride toothpaste for at least two minutes each time, or as directed by a licensed dentist," according to Cooper. This is because the proposed benefits of nHAP are fairly new and ambiguous.
Getty ImagesThe bottom line Though more research is needed, the dentists we consulted explained that nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste can be an effective alternative to fluoride -- but only in the right context. The ADA doesn't recommend it. It's also not a miracle cure or a replacement for brushing regularly, flossing and professional dental appointments. If you're considering nano-hydroxyapatite toothpaste, consult your dentist first before making the switch. They know your teeth best and will be able to help you find the best toothpaste for your smile.
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Personal Care Guides
Eye Care
Best Places to Buy Glasses Online
Best Places to Buy Replacement Prescription Lenses
Best Eye Drops
Best Places to Buy Contacts Online
Best Prescription Sunglasses
Best Blue Light Blocking Glasses
Dental Care
Best Electric Toothbrush
Quip Toothbrush Review
Best Invisible Braces
Best Teeth Whitening Strips and Toothpaste
Best Teeth Whitening Kits
Mental Health
Best Mental Health Apps
Best Teas for Stress and Anxiety
Best Fidget Toys for Anxiety
Best Online Therapy
Best Online Couples Therapy
Best Online Psychiatric Services
Betterhelp Online Therapy Review
Cerebral Review
Talkspace Online Therapy Review
Talkspace vs. Betterhelp
Other Personal Care
Best Sunscreen
Best Shower Filter
Best Hand Soap
Best Period Underwear
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.