Miriam Suzanne on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Miriam Suzanne
Founder of OddBird, enthusiast for modern CSS, Sass core team, and CSSWG Invited Expert.
@TerribleMia
·
oddbird.net
Direct link to the article Cascade Layers Guide
cascade layers
Cascade Layers Guide
This is your complete guide to CSS cascade layers, a CSS feature that allows us to define explicit contained layers of specificity, so that we have full control over which styles take priority in a project without relying on specificity …
Oct 17, 2024
Direct link to the article Very Extremely Practical CSS Art
art
Very Extremely Practical CSS Art
I’ve always enjoyed the CSS art people create, but I’ve never ventured into it much myself. I’m familiar with many of the tricks involved, but still find it surprising every time: the way people are able to make such fluid …
Dec 8, 2020
Direct link to the article Using Custom Property “Stacks” to Tame the Cascade
cascade custom properties inheritance
Using Custom Property “Stacks” to Tame the Cascade
Since the inception of CSS in 1994, the cascade and inheritance have defined how we design on the web. Both are powerful features but, as authors, we’ve had very little control over how they interact. Selector specificity and source order …
May 23, 2022
Direct link to the article Embracing the Universal Web
Embracing the Universal Web
There are constantly new features appearing in browsers—from subgrid to variable fonts to better developer tools. It’s a really great time to be re-thinking everything we know about design on the web. Responsive design has served us well over the …
Nov 21, 2019
Direct link to the article Introducing Sass Modules
modules Sass
Introducing Sass Modules
Sass just launched a major new feature you might recognize from other languages: a module system. This is a big step forward for @import. one of the most-used Sass-features. While the current @import rule allows you to pull …
Oct 14, 2019
Direct link to the article More CSS Charts, with Grid & Custom Properties
More CSS Charts, with Grid & Custom Properties
I loved Robin’s recent post, experimenting with CSS Grid for bar-charts. I’ve actually been using a similar approach on a client project, building a day-planner with CSS Grid. It’s a different use-case, but the same basic technique: using grid …
Aug 11, 2017
Direct link to the article Fun with Viewport Units
viewport units
Fun with Viewport Units
Viewport units have been around for several years now, with near-perfect support in the major browsers, but I keep finding new and exciting ways to use them. I thought it would be fun to review the basics, and then …
May 23, 2022
Direct link to the article Loops in CSS Preprocessors
css preprocessors less loops Sass stylus
Loops in CSS Preprocessors
If you’ve ever watched old sci-fi flicks, you know how powerful loops can be. Feed your robot nemesis an infinite loop, and kaboom. Robo dust.
Preprocessor loops will not cause dramatic explosions in space (I hope), but they are …
Apr 10, 2019
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top