How to customize MacOS Liquid Glass and make it uniquely yours | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mac OS
How to customize MacOS Liquid Glass and make it uniquely yours
Apple's big update for MacOS includes a new take on the desktop environment called Liquid Glass. Here's how you can make that desktop more elegant, useful, and truly your own.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 10:07 a.m. PT
AppleFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysApple's Liquid Glass desktop has finally arrived.Although you can't configure everything, you can make some tweaks.Liquid Glass comes with MacOS Tahoe, which is a free upgrade.I've been giddy with excitement about MacOS Tahoe for just one simple reason: Liquid Glass.Let me explain.Also: How to decide between Linux and MacOS - if you're ready to ditch WindowsYou see, I'm a hard-core Linux user who has spent countless hours tweaking desktop environments to make them look exactly how I want. In fact, I can't remember a Linux desktop that I didn't tweak. Take, for instance, KDE Plasma, which can be configured to look very glassy and elegant.
This custom KDE Plasma desktop is what Liquid Glass should look like. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETSo, when Apple announced it was making a bold change to the MacOS desktop, I was excited. Last week, I waited patiently for Tahoe to become available for both my MacBook Pro and my iMac. The update came to the iMac first, which was shortly followed by the MacBook. The upgrade took longer than I expected. For a moment, I thought my iMac was caught in a startup loop. Thankfully, that was not the case. About an hour later, the upgrade was complete. I logged in, expecting to be greeted by the most elegant desktop I've ever seen.I was a bit disappointed. Also: This new Linux desktop is almost a dead ringer for OS XUnderstand that I've grown accustomed to gorgeous desktops for a very long time. (Thank you, Linux!) I've had glassy, transparent windows and menus for years, so Liquid Glass didn't immediately strike me as anything new.But after using it for a while, I realized Liquid Glass wasn't just about a bunch of transparency and a glassy theme. You have to look at this new MacOS desktop as a whole. It all comes together to make for a very elegant UI. When I consider the look, the smooth animations, and the slightly transparent menus, Liquid Glass might be the most polished desktop I've ever used.However, I did dive into the settings to see what could be tweaked and thought I'd share those customizations with you. There weren't as many options as I expected. I assumed I'd be able to add the glassy look to titlebars and even app windows. Alas, that is not the case. It's still the MacOS UI, only with some seriously glassy polish.OK, let's take a look at some of the customizations.AppearanceThis is where most of your changes will happen. Open System Settings and click on Appearance in the sidebar. This is where you can change various colors, such as the default theme color, the icon and widget style, the folder color, and more. I like the option to change the icon and widget style to clear, as it makes the look even more glass-like. Do note that the icon and widget style option doesn't actually change the look of the desktop widgets.
There's plenty to customize here, but it does lack a Liquid Glass section. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETWhat is odd about this (and most every entry in System Settings) is that you don't find any mention of Liquid Glass. I think this is a mistake on Apple's part. It would make far more sense to have a Liquid Glass entry, accessible from the sidebar, that collects all options pertaining to the feature together. Sadly, that is not the case, and finding options relating to Liquid Glass is not easy.Also: 5 ways to run Windows apps on MacOS - and 2 are free - ZDNETThe Menu BarBefore I get into this, know that I also use an app called Bartender, which allows me to further tweak the Menu Bar to better match my style. Because of that, you won't be able to get your top bar to look exactly the same as mine (unless you install Bartender).
Never overlook the Menu Bar for customization (and install Bartender, if you haven't already). Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETWith that out of the way, let's see how you can "glassify" the Menu Bar. Open System Settings and click on Menu Bar in the left sidebar.There's really not much you can change here, but you can do the following:Enable/disable autohide.Show the menubar background.Configure the number of recent documents to show.Add/remove controls in the Control Center.Enable application items in the Menu Bar.AccessibilityYou can only make one tweak here: Enable/Disable transparency. This is an on/off situation, and you can not customize the amount of transparency.
There's really only one option to configure here, and that pretty much disables the transparency of Liquid Glass. Screenshot by Jack Wallen/ZDNETWhere are the settings?As I mentioned earlier, it would be nice if there as a location that gathered all the settings related to Liquid Glass in one convenient location. However, there really isn't much you can tweak.That being said, there are enough small things you can change to turn Liquid Glas into something special. Here are the items I have tweaked:Desktop & Dock > Dim widgets on desktop - neverAppearance > Icon & Widget Style - clearAppearance > Theme Color - pinkAppearance > Folder Color - pinkAppearance > "Tint window background with wallpaper color - enabledMenu Bar > "Show Menu Bar background" - disabledAccessibility > Display "Reduce transparency" - disabledAlso: How to make any MacOS app start at login - to save you time and clicksOnce you've taken care of the above, you should see a unique MacOS desktop that is elegant, useful, and all yours.I wish there were more options, such as applying the "glass" look to title bars and making some applications a bit transparent. Sadly, that's not the case. Even so, you can still give your MacOS desktop a nice refresh, thanks to Liquid Glass.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
MacOS Tahoe finally turned me into a desktop widget user - here's why
5 things I love about MacOS 26 Tahoe after one week with it on my Mac
Hate Windows 11's vibe? Make it look more like Linux or MacOS - here's how
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use