US Asset Managers Keep Supporting Governance-Related Proxy-Voting Proposals
| Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Governance Proposals Take the Lead
A Struggle to Read Signals From Significant Resolutions
US and European Investor Views on Sustainability Remain Poles Apart
Home
Sustainable Investing
US Asset Managers Keep Supporting Governance-Related Proxy-Voting Proposals
US Asset Managers Keep Supporting Governance-Related Proxy-Voting Proposals
While US support slides for environmental and social resolutions, European investors back sustainability proposals.
Lindsey Stewart, CFA
Sep 24, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Microsoft Corp
(MSFT)
Alphabet Inc Class C
(GOOG)
Meta Platforms Inc Class A
(META)
Environmental, social, and governance themes in investing are frequently talked about as if they are one big group. Recent history shows that although ESG themes are connected, they are treated very differently by investment decision-makers.Our latest research paper illustrates this well. The paper examines how investors have voted at shareholder meetings over the last six years, focusing on their voting decisions on shareholder resolutions that seek to address sustainability and governance topics.Overall, we found that governance proposals are faring better than environmental and social ones at the corporate ballot box. Also, European asset managers continue to strongly support sustainability proposals. That’s a stark contrast to US asset managers. Governance Proposals Take the LeadThe chart below shows the underlying trends in ESG-focused proxy voting in the US, excluding the growing number of “anti-ESG” proposals that generally gain poor support.
Conventional ESG Resolutions: Volume and Average Support
Voted shareholder resolutions in the US market, 2020 to 2025 proxy years
Source: Morningstar proxy-voting database, Morningstar research. Data as of Sept. 1, 2025. Note: Charts show data for proxy years ended June 30. Download CSV.Amid a general decline in the number of shareholder resolutions, governance proposals outnumbered those addressing environmental and social themes for the first time since 2021.Meanwhile, average support for conventional governance proposals has largely held up between 30% and 40%, while support for conventional E&S proposals has halved from 33% in 2021 to just 16% in 2025.A Struggle to Read Signals From Significant ResolutionsEven amid this decline in support for E&S resolutions, we have been able to obtain reliable signals on investors’ views on sustainability by analyzing significant resolutions. According to Morningstar’s methodology, significant E&S shareholder resolutions are those that gain the support of at least 30% of a company’s shareholders. These resolutions are the ones on which a sizable proportion of investors aim to send a clear message back to company management on their expectations regarding financially material sustainability topics. These could include climate change, human capital management, or oversight of new technologies like artificial intelligence.
Number of Significant Environmental and Social Shareholder Resolutions by Topic
Voted resolutions in the US market with at least 30% adjusted support, 2020 to 2025 proxy years
Source: Morningstar proxy-voting database, Morningstar research. Data as of Sept. 1, 2025. Note: Proxy years are 12-month periods ended June 30. Adjusted support includes voting decisions by independent shareholders only. Download CSV.Unfortunately, we’re getting fewer of those signals than ever, with the number of significant E&S resolutions falling from 107 in the 2024 proxy year to just 30 in 2025. Twelve of those 30 resolutions addressed political spending transparency—a social topic with a particularly strong governance focus.Of the 18 significant resolutions that remain, eight proposals were resolutions on technology oversight voted at just three “Magnificent Seven” tech companies—Alphabet GOOG, Meta Platforms META, and Microsoft MSFT. While those votes give useful insights into investors’ views on the social and governance challenges in Big Tech, what happens at those giant businesses bears little resemblance to what’s going on in the rest of the market.That leaves just 10 significant proposals on what we can describe as core sustainability themes—a very thin population of votes on which it is difficult to draw firm conclusions. US and European Investor Views on Sustainability Remain Poles ApartAll the same, it is still worth examining asset managers’ voting records on significant resolutions for clues on what may be changing amid such volatility.The chart below shows average support for significant E&S resolutions for 12 large US asset managers: six in the US (BlackRock, Dimensional, Invesco, J.P. Morgan, State Street, and Vanguard) and six in Europe (Amundi, Fidelity International, Legal & General, NBIM, Schroders, and UBS).
Average Support for Significant Environmental and Social Shareholder Resolutions
Voted resolutions in the US market with at least 30% adjusted support, 2020 to 2025 proxy years
Source: Morningstar proxy-voting database, Morningstar research. Data as of Sept. 1, 2025. Note: Data shown is the unweighted mean for six US asset managers (BlackRock, Dimensional, Invesco, J.P. Morgan, State Street, and Vanguard) and six European asset managers (Amundi, Fidelity International, Legal & General, NBIM, Schroders, and UBS). Download CSV.With the caveat that the 2025 data is based on a thin population of votes, the gulf in voting preferences on sustainability that has grown between US and European asset managers since 2021 appears to have ceased expanding. However, with European average support stable for several years at above 90%, compared with just 18% among the US managers, the gap remains wide.In the institutional investor space that I now cover for Morningstar, we’ve seen some of the more sustainability-focused asset owners deciding to move funds to new asset managers, or considering doing so, seeking better alignment with their views on environmental and social topics.Individual investors may also find themselves with choices to make if they are looking to have their personal nonfinancial priorities represented in their investment choices. That could mean looking for a different manager, or it could mean taking advantage of a growing number of voting choice options provided by some asset managers. And whatever your views on ESG, greater choices for the investor has to be seen as a positive overall.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Sustainable Investing
View All
The 2025 Proxy Season in 7 Charts Fewer resolutions and a continued fall in support for environmental and social proposals in proxy-voting season.
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Amid New Curbs on ESG Shareholder Resolutions, Companies May Lose Useful Signals From Investors The number of proxy-voting proposals with near-zero support continues to increase.
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Climate Week 2025: Risks and Opportunities for Investors Clean energy funds, popular proxy-voting climate proposals, and what asset owners think about sustainability.
Leslie P. Norton Sep 21, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Director of Institutional Insights
More from Author
Lindsey Stewart, CFA, is director of institutional insights for Morningstar.
US Asset Managers Keep Supporting Governance-Related Proxy-Voting Proposals
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 24, 2025
The 2025 Proxy Season in 7 Charts
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Amid New Curbs on ESG Shareholder Resolutions, Companies May Lose Useful Signals From Investors
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 23, 2025
At Tesla, the Shareholder Meeting Schedule Was Just the Latest Governance Drama
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Jul 17, 2025
Is ESG Data Helping Investors? No. And Yes.
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Jul 16, 2025
Shareholders Worried About AI Use and Ethics, Proxy Votes Show
Lindsey Stewart, CFA May 19, 2025
Changes in SEC Guidance on Investor Engagement Present a New Challenge to Shareholders
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Feb 20, 2025
5 Charts on How Investors Are Addressing Race at Shareholder Meetings
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Feb 5, 2025
Proxy Voting: Asset Managers Lose Appetite for ESG Resolutions
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Jan 30, 2025
Investors Fight for Their Rights at Nike
Lindsey Stewart, CFA Sep 25, 2024
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility