A single Kanban board cured my task sprawl and I can't go back
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
A single Kanban board cured my task sprawl and I can't go back
By
Chandraveer Mathur
Published Sep 6, 2025
A seasoned mechanical design engineer turned tech reporter and reviewer, Chandraveer brings more than four years of consumer tech journalism experience to the table, with bylines at Android Police and iPhoneHacks. He's written about everything from UI and UX changes across various apps to emerging software and AI trends. At XDA, he showcases his versatility in the tech reporting space with articles rooted in personal experiences and frustrations.
Chandraveer's passion for consumer tech spills over into hobbies such as mechanical keyboards, photography, and 3D printing. With an academic background in design and manufacturing, his insatiable curiosity spans beyond the digital domain. Chandraveer's downtime is an eclectic mix of reading fiction, practicing calligraphy, conceptualizing new products, and enjoying an expansive FLAC audio library.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Of all the hills I was prepared to die on, my allegiance to analog note-taking was the steepest. For the longest time, I was a staunch advocate of the pen and paper, convinced that the tactile feedback of a fountain pen scratching across a page was essential to my thought process. I refused to be one of those people who needed lists on a screen to know what's next in order of business. However, I acknowledged my system was inefficient — ideas scattered across half a dozen notebooks, meeting notes in one and project plans in another, while everyday to-do lists on little scraps were misplaced all the time. My notes were inconsistently formatted, hurried, and sometimes so illegible they might as well have been in a forgotten dialect. Last year, I finally caved and slowly moved to digital notes, retaining only the calm and profound ideas in a pocket notebook. However, digital lists felt static, one-dimensional, and lacked any sense of flow or context. A task was either not done or done. There was no in-between. Inspired by how my day job handled a dozen ongoing assignments for multi-person teams with Kanban boards, I thought it could be the solution to a problem I couldn't even articulate.
What is the Kanban method?
Yet another mantra for efficiency
Before I dive into how I co-opted a project management system for personal chores, here's a quick rundown of the Kanban system. Invented by Taiichi Ohno in the late 1940s to optimize Toyota's manufacturing, it is essentially a visual way of managing tasks, just like how graphs and pie charts visually represent data. The underlying idea is shared, too — once you see what needs to be done, you can limit what's in progress to maximize efficiency until individual tasks are completed. You could liken it to sticky notes for tasks on a digital whiteboard with columns for completion status. Watching tasks move between columns across the board offers glanceable information about what needs doing, what you're currently tackling, and what's done already. It prevents you from starting too many tasks at once, because you’d see the In Progress column getting cluttered, and gives you a satisfying sense of momentum. Web-based workflow managers like Trello and Asana use this Kanban style as their default view because it’s intuitive, flexible, and powerfully effective. I personally landed on Trello because its free tier is incredibly permissive for a solo user, but Asana is another fantastic option with a similar free offering.
Asana
See at Asana
Expand
Collapse
From a chores mega-thread to actionable tasks
Replicating the analog
I started the transition by converting my analog notes and collating the disorganized digital scraps into one massive list I called the Chores mega-thread. Every single task that pops into my head, from “finally fix that leaky faucet” to “organize the garage” and “research new vacuum cleaners,” gets thrown in here as a card. It’s an unstructured, unfiltered backlog of everything I could possibly need to do. It’s messy, and that’s the point. It gets the idea out of my head and into the system. From this well of endless tasks, I curate my current to-do list. At the beginning of each month, I scroll through the mega-thread and drag a handful of tasks into the next column, my high-priority list, which I call “This Month.” This simple act of filtering is a game-changer. It forces me to be realistic about what I can accomplish in a given timeframe. I'd compare this to picking my little molehill out of the mountain of undone work. Then, I focus on climbing said molehill.
Task cards need to be descriptive and automated
More detail, better, smarter
Adding detail to tasks is essential, and something I simply could not do with the average to-do list or hurried pen-and-paper note. Each card in my Trello board, like "Build new bookshelf," for example, would have a checklist for all the items needed to complete it, such as wood, screws, wood glue, varnish, sandpaper, etc. Additionally, I use a system of labels to determine what's a burning emergency and what can wait until the weekend. My three-step priority labels, colored red, orange, and yellow for high, medium, and low priority, respectively, help sort the mess. I usually leave longer tasks, like the six-hour bookshelf build, for the weekends, while a ten-minute credit card bill payment is managed on the weekdays. To streamline sync between the Trello checklists and my everyday shopping list on Todoist, I use the former's native Todoist Power-Up accessed through the Trello Butler. Each card gets its own shopping list in Todoist, so my other lists aren't muddied, and my memory is stress-free. As I check off items in Todoist, the system keeps track. Once every item on the shopping list for the bookshelf is marked as complete, a second automation rule kicks in, adding a green label to the Trello card to indicate that preparation is complete and I can execute. This multi-stage readiness check ensures that when I decide to start a project, I don’t get derailed halfway through by missing items. Projects currently underway live under the "In Progress" list. Unlike a traditional to-do list, where I'm torn about adding multi-day tasks or leaving them out, Trello's Kanban view solves it with this column. It ensures I don't forget unfinished business before undertaking new chores, maintaining accountability to myself.
The trophy shelf
Finished but seldom forgotten
Credit: Source: Unsplash
I move tasks to a column of annual accomplishments once complete. This ensures the list isn't infinitely long, and watching this column fill up over the year is an incredible motivator. It’s a visual record of my productivity, a way to gloat over my successes and remind myself of everything I’ve accomplished. When I eventually run out of columns on Trello’s free plan, I simply archive the oldest completion list, like “Completed 2023,” to make room for a new one.
Setting this up takes just one hour
My setup might sound complex with its automations and multi-layered cards, but the beauty of the Kanban method is its scalability. You can start with a simple three-column board and sticky notes and gain most of the benefits immediately. You don’t need limitless automations or deep integrations with a dozen other services to escape basic to-do lists. It's a visual, dynamic, and deeply satisfying middle ground between analog note chaos and the commitment to productivity software like Nextcloud. Even with the automations I mentioned, figuring out your first digital Kanban board takes less than an hour.
Trello
See at Microsoft Store
Expand
Collapse
Productivity & Creativity Tools
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with an ESP32 than a Raspberry Pi
Sep 10, 2025
5 media center ideas to turn your Raspberry Pi into a home theater hub
Sep 9, 2025
Review: Hell is Us is not a Soulslike, but something far more daring and original
Sep 10, 2025
You, too, can build this awesome foam dart shooting gallery with an ESP32
More from our brands
The One Apple Productivity Feature That Changed How I Work
Manifesting, but make it digital: how I build vision boards with just two apps
I Swapped Multitasking for “Monotasking”—and It Changed My Brain
I Tried ChatGPT Tasks and It Wasn't Worth It
I Tried 8 Task Management Apps—Here’s the One That Stuck
I Tried Using Only Apple Apps for Productivity—And I'm Never Going Back!
How I Use Technology to Overcome Procrastination
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
7 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
6 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
5 GPU-killing mistakes you're probably making right now
After Windows, I want Raycast to come to Linux next
4 things the game doesn't tell you in Hollow Knight: Silksong
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.