The US is now the largest investor in commercial spyware - Ars Technica
Skip to content
Ars Technica home
Sections
Forum
Subscribe
Search
AI
Biz & IT
Cars
Culture
Gaming
Health
Policy
Science
Security
Space
Tech
Feature
Reviews
AI
Biz & IT
Cars
Culture
Gaming
Health
Policy
Science
Security
Space
Tech
Forum
Subscribe
Story text
Size
Small
Standard
Large
Width
*
Standard
Wide
Links
Standard
Orange
* Subscribers only
Learn more
Pin to story
Theme
HyperLight
Day & Night
Dark
System
Sign In
buy american
The US is now the largest investor in commercial spyware
And new countries are linked to the dangerous software.
Vas Panagiotopoulos, wired.com
–
Sep 11, 2025 9:22 am
|
45
Credit:
Getty Images
Credit:
Getty Images
Text
settings
Story text
Size
Small
Standard
Large
Width
*
Standard
Wide
Links
Standard
Orange
* Subscribers only
Learn more
Minimize to nav
The United States has emerged as the largest investor in commercial spyware—a global industry that has enabled the covert surveillance of journalists, human rights defenders, politicians, diplomats, and others, posing grave threats to human rights and national security.
In 2024, 20 new US-based spyware investors were identified, bringing the total number of American backers of this technology to 31. This growth has largely outpaced other major investing countries such as Israel, Italy, and the United Kingdom, according to a new report published today by the Atlantic Council.
The study surveyed 561 entities across 46 countries between 1992 and 2024, identifying 34 new investors. This brings the total to 128, up from 94 in the dataset published last year.
The number of identified investors in the EU Single Market, plus Switzerland, stands at 31, with Italy—a key spyware hub—accounting for the largest share at 12. Investors based in Israel number 26.
US-based investors include major hedge funds D.E. Shaw & Co. and Millennium Management, prominent trading firm Jane Street, and mainstream financial-services company Ameriprise Financial—all of which, according to the Atlantic Council, have channeled funds to Israeli lawful-interception software provider Cognyte, a company allegedly linked to human rights abuses in Azerbaijan and Indonesia, among others.
Another notable example of a new US-based investment in spyware is the late-2024 acquisition of Israeli spyware vendor Paragon Solutions by AE Industrial Partners, a Florida-based, national-security-focused private equity firm. Paragon made headlines last week when its one-year contract with Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)—first reported by WIRED in October 2024—was suddenly reactivated after a lengthy pause.
Civil society groups described the move by the Trump administration as “extremely troubling” and said it “compounds the civil liberties concerns surrounding the rapid and dramatic expansion of ICE’s budget and authority.”
Paragon was linked to alleged misconduct in Europe after WhatsApp reported that Italian journalists and civil society members had been targeted with its technology. An Italian parliamentary committee found that the government had used its Graphite spyware to only surveil human rights defenders. However, University of Toronto’s Citizen Lab confirmed the targeting of an Italian journalist and identified potential Paragon customers in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Cyprus, Singapore, and Israel.
Paragon, responding to the committee’s findings, accused Italian authorities of refusing to conduct a thorough technical verification—an assessment it argued could have resolved the issue.
Apart from focusing on investment, the Atlantic Council notes that the global spyware market is “growing and evolving,” with its dataset expanded to include four new vendors, seven new resellers or brokers, 10 new suppliers, and 55 new individuals linked to the industry.
Newly identified vendors include Israel’s Bindecy and Italy’s SIO. Among the resellers are front companies connected to NSO products, such as Panama’s KBH and Mexico’s Comercializadora de Soluciones Integrales Mecale, as highlighted by the Mexican government. New suppliers named include the UK’s Coretech Security and UAE’s ZeroZenX.
The report highlights the central role that these resellers and brokers play, stating that it is “a notably under-researched set of actors.” According to the report, “These entities act as intermediaries, obscuring the connections between vendors, suppliers, and buyers. Oftentimes, intermediaries connect vendors to new regional markets.”
“This creates an expanded and opaque spyware supply chain, which makes corporate structures, jurisdictional arbitrage, and ultimately accountability measures a challenge to disentangle,” Sarah Graham, who coauthored the report, tells WIRED.
“Despite this, resellers and brokers are not a current feature of policy responses,” she says.
The study reveals the addition of three new countries linked to spyware activity—Japan, Malaysia, and Panama. Japan in particular is a signatory to international efforts to curb spyware abuse, including the Joint Statement on Efforts to Counter the Proliferation and Misuse of Commercial Spyware and the Pall Mall Process Code of Practice for States.
“The discovery of entities operating in new jurisdictions, like Japan, highlights potential conflicts of interest between international commitments and market dynamics,” Graham says.
Despite efforts by the Biden administration to constrain the spyware market through its executive order, trade and visa restrictions, and sanctions, the industry has continued to operate largely without restraint.
“US policymakers have systematically targeted the proliferation and misuse of spyware through robust policy action, but there is a critical gap between them and US investors—where US dollars continue to fund the very entities US policymakers are trying to combat,” says Atlantic Council’s Jen Roberts, who also worked on the report.
For example, spyware vendor Saito Tech (formerly Candiru), which has been on the US Commerce Department’s Entity List since 2021, saw new investment by US firm Integrity Partners in 2024. “[This] shows that signaling from the US government has not gone far enough to deter investment in this technology,” Roberts says.
In addition, there is limited public awareness that some of the money spent on this controversial technology may ultimately come from ordinary citizens’ own pockets.
In the case of AE Industrial Partners, investment performance reports show that the firm was backed by several US pension funds—among them the Contra Costa County Employees' Retirement Association, Baltimore Fire & Police Retirement System, Houston Firefighters' Relief and Retirement Fund, and the New Mexico Educational Retirement Board—providing cash that could help support the deal with Paragon, which could reach $900 million.
“This highlights the need for better understanding from both US government and the public—that the average American might not understand how their dollars are funding the proliferation and misuse of spyware,” says Roberts.
Crucially, the Trump administration’s policy in this space is not yet fully defined.
The Atlantic Council’s Roberts calls for further action to target US outbound investment and suggests broadening the scope of Executive Order 14105—which already requires notification of overseas investments in quantum technology, AI, semiconductors, and microelectronics—to also cover investment in spyware.
Some reports suggest that the administration may also be considering amendments to the Biden-era Executive Order 14093 that restricts government use of spyware.
In particular, it is crucial to maintain this executive order, which leverages US purchasing power to protect Americans against this technology, Roberts explains.
“US purchasing power is a significant tool in shaping and constraining the global market for spyware.”
This story originally appeared on wired.com.
WIRED
WIRED
Wired.com is your essential daily guide to what's next, delivering the most original and complete take you'll find anywhere on innovation's impact on technology, science, business and culture.
45 Comments
Comments
Forum view
Loading comments...
Prev story
Next story
Most Read
1.
60 years after Gemini, newly processed images reveal incredible details
2.
“You are evil”: GirlsDoPorn ringleader Michael Pratt sentenced to 27 years
3.
RFK Jr.’s CDC may limit COVID shots to 75 and up, claim they killed kids
4.
The US is trying to kick-start a “nuclear energy renaissance”
5.
Modder injects AI dialogue into 2002’s Animal Crossing using memory hack
Customize
Ars Technica has been separating the signal from
the noise for over 25 years. With our unique combination of
technical savvy and wide-ranging interest in the technological arts
and sciences, Ars is the trusted source in a sea of information. After
all, you don’t need to know everything, only what’s important.
More
from Ars
About Us
Staff Directory
Newsletters
General FAQ
Posting Guidelines
RSS Feeds
Contact
Contact us
Advertise with us
Reprints
Manage Preferences
© 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of and/or
registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and
Privacy Policy and
Cookie Statement and Ars
Technica Addendum and Your
California Privacy Rights. Ars Technica may earn compensation on
sales from links on this site. Read our
affiliate link policy. The material on this site may not be
reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except
with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad
Choices