Nintendo Switch 2 Review: The Future in Familiar Form - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechGaming Nintendo
Switch 2 Is the Best Handheld Console, but I Think You Can Wait on It, Too
Nintendo's latest console is the future in familiar form, and a doorway to a lot more. But the fun's still under construction, so you don't need to hop on yet.
Article updated on June 26, 2025 at 6:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Scott Stein
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Scott Stein Editor at Large I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future. Expertise VR and AR | Gaming | Metaverse technologies | Wearable tech | Tablets Credentials Nearly 20 years writing about tech, and over a decade reviewing wearable tech, VR, and AR products and apps
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
8.5/ 10
SCORE Nintendo Switch 2
$450 at Best Buy
Pros
Slim design
Large 1080p display
Notably better graphics
Great-feeling magnetic-attaching controllers
Cons
microSD Express cards are hard to find right
now
Battery life is worse than Switch's
Still needs more unique exclusives
Table of Contents
Switch 2 Is the Best Handheld Console, but I Think You Can Wait on It, Too
Graphics that beat the Steam Deck
The Switch 2's hardware feels fantastic
A screen that's more than good enough, but could still be better
GameChat and Game Share: Evolved ways to play suggest a transformation in the works
Games are good, but more needed
Battery life is the limiting factor
Storage space is a factor, too
Do you buy it if you have a Switch?
Do you buy it instead of a Steam Deck?
The future in familiar form
2025
Halfway between Newark and San Francisco, I was settled into my economy seat and fully enjoying the first-class gaming ticket that the Nintendo Switch 2 was giving me in-flight. A big 7.9-inch screen, tilted at a perfect angle as I played Mario Kart World's vast tracks using luxurious new controllers with fantastic vibration. Yep, the Switch 2 is great. Except that the battery was already winding down after just an hour and a half of play.
Watch this: Nintendo Switch 2 Two Weeks In: All I've Loved, and The Things I Haven't
08:29
In the world of large, powerful gaming handhelds such as the Steam Deck and upcoming ROG Xbox Ally, the Nintendo Switch 2 currently reigns supreme, with some caveats. Eight years after the launch of the original Nintendo Switch, the Switch 2 is clearly a revamp rather than a reinvention.Nintendo didn't pull any surprises this time, and instead it delivered overdue graphics upgrades and a lot of design improvements into a console that, after a couple of weeks of living with it, has finally shown me enough to give you a verdict. This is a system whose graphics potential, I think, lies ahead, and a system that could be a doorway to a lot more. In a lot of ways it's the hardware I dreamed of when I reviewed the Switch OLED back in 2021. But it has some current drawbacks that could very well make some choose to wait for more games, or perhaps a better Switch model.
The Switch 2 feels new, familiar, better, and like it needs just a bit more to perfect it. Scott Stein/CNETLet's rewind to 2011. The Nintendo DS was one of the most successful game handhelds of all time, and the Nintendo 3DS promised even more: a backward-compatible design, better graphics, an analog stick, a glasses-free 3D screen. And worse battery life. The 3DS battery life didn't catch up to older DS models until years later.The Switch 2 feels like a familiar story in comparison. For all its graphic updates and excellent hardware improvements, its battery life has suffered. Two hours, maybe three, is what you should expect. And you might find that your onboard storage for games fills up fast, too, unless you invest in expensive microSD Express cards that are currently hard to find.But the Switch 2 looks to do a lot more than that. The graphics boosts and its improvements to modular ways to play put it right at the bleeding edge of where other game consoles look to be evolving next. It's a step ahead of where Windows handhelds and Steam Decks are currently at. And the way the hardware works for more current PC and PlayStation/Xbox-level games should open it up to a lot more software in the years to come. I do love what the Switch 2 can do for games and for connecting with friends. And I bet its advantages will grow even more in another year, when there are far more games and people playing on the Switch 2. The Switch 2 was given CNET's Editors' Choice award on June 26, 2025, largely because of its total advantages versus the competition and everything that's included in the box for its price. That being said, I look forward to improvements that can be made in the next few years, too.
The Switch 2 (top left) vs. Lenovo Legion Go S (bottom left), Steam Deck OLED (bottom right) and Switch OLED (top right). The Switch 2 is small in comparison to the PC handhelds, but bigger than older Switches. Scott Stein/CNETGraphics that beat the Steam DeckI was surprised to find that the graphics on the Switch 2 actually look better than on Valve's Steam Deck handheld. I'm not used to Nintendo hardware being at the bleeding edge of tech. It is this time, though.Even though the Switch 2 isn't as powerful as larger game consoles like the PS5 and Xbox Series X, it does deliver the best gaming handheld graphics right now, period. It has a new Nvidia custom processor that, in early ports of games also playable on Steam Deck, shows better-looking images. I still need to do more direct comparisons with other games to check this out further, but Nintendo's already done an impressive job optimizing its own games, as well as the third-party games that are here so far for its hardware. But I'd still love to see more. The 1080p handheld display and consistent docked performance of games that can go up to 4K and run at 120fps have impressed me a lot. The Switch 2 has its limits, for sure, but it definitely feels like a better TV-docked gaming console than the Steam Deck.There are only about a couple of dozen or so games designed for Switch 2 right now, along with a handful of others Nintendo has updated for Switch 2 with a mix of better resolution, graphics and frame rate. I'm impressed with the results, especially the more I play. Splatoon 3 now flies around, silky-smooth and sharp. Both Zelda games don't have any frame rate hiccups at all anymore, and this is the handheld I want to play to get back into Tears of the Kingdom; it feels fantastic now.
Taking the Switch 2 on a cross-country flight. The kickstand and the whole system still fit perfectly on a small tray table. Scott Stein/CNETThe Switch 2's hardware feels fantasticFrom the new thin and sturdy kickstand to the larger screen, the beefier Joy-Cons, which have notably better haptics and that lovely magnetic detach mechanism, I love just about everything in the Switch 2's design. Nintendo didn't pull any surprises, but it just seems more mature and polished now. When I looked at the OLED Switch and felt it was an overdue update to the Switch, the Switch 2 takes those upgrades a lot further.So, I also love mouse mode. I really wasn't sure about it at first, and Nintendo doesn't have many games that work with the optical mouse function in both Joy-Cons, but boy, does the feature work well. The camera-based tracking reliably functions on every surface I've tried, from tables to sofa arms to my legs.So far, those mouse features are mainly used with Nintendo Switch 2 Welcome Tour, a $10 launch title that serves as an interactive hardware tutorial and demo/minigame collection, and which should have been included free with the Switch 2 (but isn't). Other upcoming games like Drag x Drive and Metroid Prime 4 Beyond will use mouse mode, and I hope others do too, since it's a lot easier to use than I ever expected.
Games look really good on the Switch 2 display, although it's not as bright or vivid as OLED. Numi Prasarn/CNETA screen that's more than good enough, but could still be betterAfter weeks of playing on it, my thoughts on the 7.9-inch 1080p display are that it's definitely good, and I'd love to see it in OLED someday. The HDR support, refresh rate and its larger, higher-res viewing area are all upgrades over previous Switch displays, but it's missing that extra bit of high-contrast vividness that OLEDs can have, and as a result the HDR effects don't really pop. The bezel around the Switch 2 screen is also thicker than I'd prefer. The screen could have been a bit bigger, or maybe the Switch 2 made smaller. Compared to the Valve Steam Deck, though, this feels a lot more compact and modern.
Your typical four-person GameChat session will show everyone's windows below your game, but you can adjust the windows or hide them completely. Numi Prasarn/CNETGameChat and Game Share: Evolved ways to play suggest a transformation in the worksI've been thinking about the name of Nintendo's console: "Switch." It's the modular transformations from tabletop to handheld to TV docked forms, complete with detachable Joy-Con controllers, that have made the Switch stand out from other consoles. That's still the Switch 2's stand-out advantage over handhelds like the Steam Deck, but the Switch 2 reveals some possibilities in new directions.GameChat, a built-in audio and video chat function on the Switch 2, launches hangouts with friends on the fly. Testing it out with friends at work, the feature seemed totally fine, even though it's something I might not use much yet. The C button on the right Joy-Con controller launches GameChat, and uses your Switch friend list as contacts you can add to a chat and start a hangout. The Switch 2 has its own noise-canceling microphone that pretty effectively blocks your own console's game sounds and room noise, but the audio quality with friends was sometimes hit or miss. As a built-in chat platform, it's a lot better than the phone app-based chat Nintendo leans on for the Switch. It's limited to up to 12 people with just voice, or four that can share audio and footage of the game they're playing, along with their own face if they have a USB-connected camera plugged in.While video quality over GameChat varies and is definitely a lower frame rate and lower-res than most standard laptop webcams, it's good enough to feel presence and connection. Also, my own gaming performance didn't suffer despite having GameChat open at the same time.Game Share opens up Switch-to-Switch play with only one game in one console, something only a few Switch games can do with Switch 2. It's a promising idea, since it can also mean family members who don't have a Switch 2 could perhaps play along in some games on their own Switch screen, using a form of localized streaming to share the gameplay. Donkey Kong Bananza has this support, but Mario Kart World doesn't. I think it's a fascinating way the Switch 2 could expand this, maybe even to phones or tablets, but it's really unclear how or when it'll be explored further.
The sold-separately Switch 2 Camera can put your face in certain games, which is actually a lot of fun. Scott Stein/CNETNintendo's also playing with connected cameras this time around, and while it's fun, it's more of a gimmick at the moment. Plugging in a USB camera into the Switch 2 can let you share your face in Game Chat or overlay your face into games that have camera support. Mario Kart World does this, and a summer update to Mario Party Jamboree has a whole new mode with camera-connected games. Nintendo has its own wide-angle camera you can buy ($55) and plug in; certain third-party USB cameras may work too. All of these things, and that new mouse mode, make me wonder how games could expand to add these tools. Big party games like Jackbox, maybe? I sense the flex in the Switch 2's philosophy and design, but these ideas haven't been hammered out yet into games that really make the most of them.One weird wrinkle to Nintendo's game-sharing rules involves Virtual Game Cards, which can let you loan out your digital games to members of your family for two weeks at a time, or transfer use between two Switches with the same Nintendo account. I appreciate the game-loaning feature, but Nintendo previously allowed multiple Switches to play games under one account while on Wi-Fi. That feature's gone now. I still want games to be truly, freely shared across all family members without limits, but this is a start.
Mario Kart World is a lot of fun, but my kid also said it wasn't a must-get moment yet. Scott Stein/CNETGames are good, but more needed I love Mario Kart World, the Switch 2's exclusive launch game. Its 24-player multiplayer is chaotic but becomes essential for making longer rally modes like the elimination-based Knockout Tour feel so special. The open world map for Mario Kart World doesn't have as many secrets as I'd have hoped (though who knows what Nintendo has in store for the future) but the way multicourse races include the path from course to course as part of the challenge adds variety and changes up expectations. Even so, you could keep playing Mario Kart 8 Deluxe on your original Switch and still be perfectly happy. Mario Kart World doesn't have as many tracks yet, but again, who knows what Nintendo's plans are?
Games like Cyberpunk 2077 look pretty good on Switch 2, especially in TV mode. Numi Prasarn/CNETI've been playing through parts of the initial batch of new console and PC game ports like Yakuza 0, Cyberpunk 2077, Split Fiction and Street Fighter 6, and their upgraded graphics, resolutions and frame rates do feel surprising compared to what I'm used to getting on the Switch. They often look like they beat out some of the Steam Deck's handheld gaming performance. But, on TVs, they still look steps behind what a PS5 or Xbox Series X can do. They're very playable, but notably not exactly the same. Still, the Switch 2 is showing how it's, in some ways, nearly there for a lot of games.
Welcome Tour is more a playable welcome guide than full game, but it has its charms. Scott Stein/CNETFor a taste of the weird possibilities, Switch 2 Welcome Tour is sort of a preview and interactive behind-the-scenes guide to the Switch 2's hardware benefits. The $10 game should have been free, and yet I've also enjoyed the four-plus hours I've spent in it so far. It's also the only way to show off or check out the mouse functions in a meaningful way right now. I want more experimental, lower-cost, small Nintendo games that will let me play more like this. Drag x Drive looks like one of them -- I played it briefly during a gaming showcase back in April.It's the next wave of games I'm most excited for. The next exclusive, Donkey Kong Bananza, promises to be a 3D Mario-esque adventure. Metroid Prime 4, which will also play on Switch, looks ready to show off Switch 2 graphics really well. The new Pokemon Legends Z-A could be a great showcase, too.But Nintendo still needs new Zeldas, new Marios, and new ideas beyond those to propel the Switch 2 into a position where it could really feel like a must-have. In the meantime I expect to get back into lots of Switch games in my library on the better hardware. For now, it's more of a fantastic Switch upgrade with promises of more in store.
Don't expect more than about two hours of battery life playing Mario Kart World. Scott Stein/CNETBattery life is the limiting factor You're sacrificing something with the Switch 2, and that's mainly your battery life. At best, I've gotten around three hours of play on a charge with Switch 2, which is notably less than current Switches and also less than the Steam Deck OLED model. My 12-year-old son's reaction to the whole Switch 2 proposition was telling. He prefers his old durable Switch and its funky mismatched Joy-Cons because he can play longer without needing to charge. Battery life matters for kids, too. So does size. The Switch 2's bigger feel but smaller battery life is a mismatch for families, and it's the main reason to consider waiting this out. Maybe a bigger-battery model emerges next, or perhaps Nintendo improves Switch 2's battery performance with future games.None of that matters if you keep the Switch 2 docked. TV mode is maybe the new Switch's best way to shine, since the console can pull off 4K resolution and smoother 120Hz gaming, although not all games (or TVs) support those formats. The new camera-connected modes expect you to be TV-docked, too (although you could also use the camera in tabletop or handheld modes, if you have a place to rest it). Playing like this, you wouldn't miss out on a thing.Still, I'd like to see battery life improve, especially since recharging isn't speedy. It's taken me more than an hour to charge the Switch 2 back to where I'd want it to be. In the meantime, living with a battery pack for long trips might be the solution.For now, it's a sacrifice for better performance, much like that Nintendo 3DS.Storage space is a factor, tooI've gotten frustrated by the Switch 2's already-limiting onboard storage options, too. The console has 256GB of onboard storage, far larger than the 64GB that comes on the Switch. But game download sizes have ballooned, too. Cyberpunk 2077 is around 60GB. Split Fiction is 69GB. Street Fighter 6? 48GB. There are some smaller Switch 2 games, and if you buy game cards with the games actually onboard (versus "game key cards," which only trigger a download), you could save yourself storage space, too. Still, I found myself needing an expansion fast. However, the Switch 2 requires microSD Express cards, a new format that's more expensive and currently really hard to find.I bought a 256GB card and filled it fast, and haven't even put many of my original Switch games on it. Sure, I have a lot of Switch games, and many of the classic ones never get above 10GB in size. But if future Switch 2 games continue on this larger file-size path that feels similar to the Steam Deck and Windows handhelds, managing games will be a challenge if you have more than a handful. In a year or so, microSD Express cards should be more plentiful, but at the moment, it's a bottleneck.
The dock, Switch 2 and Joy-Con grip are included. The Pro controller (right) is $85 extra. Scott Stein/CNETDo you buy it if you have a Switch?If you've never owned a Switch before, the Switch 2 makes great sense as a starting point. Finally, the hardware is upgraded for the future, and almost all existing Switch games play on it. Many of them have AI-upscaled graphics, too, and others are being given Switch 2 boosts, either for free or for an extra fee. However, if you already have a Switch, it's a toss-up. True, you won't regret how much nicer your games can look here, and the new hardware feels fantastic. But do you want the larger size and the smaller battery life? My kid says he can wait.I still think it'll take a good year or so for the Switch 2 to ramp up its games and features and become a true must-have for Switch owners. Or maybe it'll take longer. Nintendo tends to update its handhelds every two years, so maybe 2027 could see a revised Switch 2? Who knows? In the meantime, just know that the Switch 2 keeps the good times rolling and, in most ways, it's a lot better, but paying up for the new games, the console, and new accessories can add up.Do you buy it instead of a Steam Deck?The Steam Deck and Switch 2 are very different beasts, with a lot of things increasingly in common. I still admire the Steam Deck OLED's longer battery life, its extra controls like trackpads and analog triggers, and its far more customizable OS that can be hacked to run other apps if you want. Plus, Steam is a treasure trove of so many games that don't even make it to handhelds like the Switch, and PC gamers can take advantage of using their existing libraries. The Switch 2, however, has taken the lead now on impressive hardware. It's slimmer, has a higher-res display, can output 4K and 120Hz to TVs, comes with a dock, has those detachable controllers that can also be mice, and Nintendo does a great job optimizing its games for their consoles, with no signs that'll stop here. It also looks like the Switch 2 will be getting a lot of the Steam Deck-optimized games on Switch 2 over time, since its capabilities are so similar now. Further, the Switch 2 is bound to be a good place to sell indie games to a far larger handheld audience, much like the Switch has been.I prefer the Switch 2 just a bit more than the Steam Deck right now, but it's a choice lots of people will debate, especially as more Windows handhelds with better performance start to pop up.The future in familiar formI think the Switch 2 will transform over the next few years. Maybe with its already-announced functions, maybe with others. Maybe via games that can finally make the leap. Maybe in other weird Nintendo ways no one can predict. Already, it's building a foundation for some really useful stuff that the original Switch couldn't do, and current Windows gaming handhelds and the Steam Deck can't either.Yes, it's mostly a better, more expensive Switch right now. But that's also reason enough to take the plunge, even with the battery life and storage concerns. It's not the perfect Switch 2, but it's also the Switch I'm going to use over any other. And, I think, the handheld I'll prefer over any other.You can sit this upgrade out for a while, for sure, and wait for the rest of Nintendo's plans to unfold. I'd even recommend that. But then, yeah, come onboard, because I need more people to GameChat with.
Gaming Guides
Virtual Reality Gaming
Best VR Headsets
Best Meta Quest 2 Games and Experiences
Best VR Games
Best Playstation VR 2 Deals
Meta Quest 2 Review
PlayStation
PS5 Restock Tracker
Playstation Plus Review
Best PS5 Games
Xbox
Best Xbox Series X S Controller
Xbox GamePass Ultimate Review
Other Gaming
Best Nintendo Switch Controller
Best Cloud Gaming Services
Best Gaming Chair
Nintendo Switch OLED Review
Best Gaming Keyboard
Video Games
Best Online Games to Play with Friends
Video Game Deals
Best VR Games
Best Xbox Series X Games
Best PS5 Games
SCOTT STEIN
Editor at Large I started with CNET reviewing laptops in 2009. Now I explore wearable tech, VR/AR, tablets, gaming and future/emerging trends in our changing world. Other obsessions include magic, immersive theater, puzzles, board games, cooking, improv and the New York Jets. My background includes an MFA in theater which I apply to thinking about immersive experiences of the future.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.