Tipsy bats and perfect pasta: Ig Nobels celebrate ‘improbable’ research
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
18 September 2025
Tipsy bats and perfect pasta: Ig Nobels celebrate ‘improbable’ research
The annual awards are a celebration of weird but thought-provoking science.
By
Chris Simms0
Chris Simms
Chris Simms is a science writer based in Somerset, UK.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Physicists studied the phase transitions that occur while making the pasta dish cacio e pepe.Credit: Karisssa/iStock via GettyMany scientists dream of winning a Nobel Prize, an accolade that brings worldwide recognition, prestige and a place in the pantheon of greatness alongside the likes of Albert Einstein, Marie Curie and Francis Crick. Then there are the other awards — the Ig Nobel prizes, which were devised to highlight research that makes people laugh, then think.Highlights of this year’s Ig Nobel recipients include a nutrition prize for studying the preferred pizza toppings of rainbow lizards at a seaside resort in Togo1 (their favourite is four-cheese), and a physics award for figuring out how to prepare the perfect cacio e pepe2 — a pasta dish made with grated pecorino romano cheese and black pepper that is surprisingly hard to get right (see ‘The 2025 Ig Nobel prizewinners in full’).“For us, this represents the greatest award to creativity in science,” says Giacomo Bartolucci, a physicist at the University of Barcelona in Spain, who was a co-author of the cacio e pepe study. His team investigated the phase transitions that can cause the sauce to clump up and uncovered a recipe with consistently delicious results. “The goal was both to satisfy our curiosity and to frame the problem in physical terms, showing that even everyday frustrations like a failed pasta dish can be linked to interesting scientific problems,” says Bartolucci.Celebrating sillinessThe Ig Nobels were founded in 1991 by Marc Abrahams, editor of satirical magazine Annals of Improbable Research. Previous winners have included the discovery that orgasm can be an effective nasal decongestant3, the levitation of live frogs using magnets4 and research on necrophilia in ducks5.The 2025 Ig Nobel prizewinners in fullLITERATUREThe late physician William Bean, for persistently recording and analysing the rate of growth of one of his fingernails over a period of 35 years.PSYCHOLOGYMarcin Zajenkowski and Gilles Gignac, for investigating what happens when you tell a narcissist — or anyone else — that they are intelligent.NUTRITIONDaniele Dendi, Gabriel Segniagbeto, Roger Meek and Luca Luiselli for studying the extent to which a certain kind of lizard chooses to eat certain kinds of pizza.PEDIATRICSJulie Mennella and Gary Beauchamp for studying what a nursing baby experiences when their mother eats garlic.BIOLOGYTomoki Kojima, Kazato Oishi, Yasushi Matsubara, Yuki Uchiyama, Yoshihiko Fukushima, Naoto Aoki, Say Sato, Tatsuaki Masuda, Junichi Ueda, Hiroyuki Hirooka and Katsutoshi Kino, for their experiments to learn whether cows painted with zebra-like stripes can avoid fly bites.CHEMISTRYRotem Naftalovich, Daniel Naftalovich and Frank Greenway, for experiments to test whether eating Teflon [a form of plastic more formally called ’polytetrafluoroethylene’] is a good way to increase food volume, and hence satiety, without increasing calorie content.PEACEFritz Renner, Inge Kersbergen, Matt Field and Jessica Werthmann, for showing that drinking alcohol sometimes improves a person’s ability to speak in a foreign language.ENGINEERING DESIGNVikash Kumar and Sarthak Mittal, for analysing, from an engineering design perspective, “how foul-smelling shoes affects the good experience of using a shoe-rack”’.AVIATIONFrancisco Sánchez, Mariana Melcón, Carmi Korine and Berry Pinshow, for studying whether ingesting alcohol can impair bats’ ability to fly and echolocate.PHYSICSGiacomo Bartolucci, Daniel Maria Busiello, Matteo Ciarchi, Alberto Corticelli, Ivan Di Terlizzi, Fabrizio Olmeda, Davide Revignas and Vincenzo Maria Schimmenti, for discoveries about the physics of pasta sauce, especially the phase transition that can lead to clumping, which can yield an unappetizing dish.In the prize’s early days, receiving one was deemed silly or even insulting by some people. Abrahams says that Robert May, the chief scientific adviser to the UK Government from 1995 to 2000, once wrote him an angry letter demanding that they stopped giving Ig Nobel prizes to British scientists.But many have come to see the Ig Nobels as career-changing in their own right.“When we first got the phone call about winning an Ig Nobel, we honestly thought it was a prank. Once we realized it was real, we were thrilled and genuinely honored,” says Fritz Renner, a psychologist at the University of Freiburg in Germany and a winner of this year’s peace prize for work showing that drinking alcohol can improve your ability to speak in a foreign language6.How a silly science prize changed my career“It all started out at an international conference in Vienna,” he says of the research. “We had some drinks with colleagues at a bar at the end of a long conference day. Someone was joking that their English — to them a foreign language — was getting better with a drink.”The discussion ultimately led to a study showing that people are more impressed by your ability to speak another language after you’ve had a small amount of booze. However, Renner stresses that “we do not encourage anybody to use alcohol as a learning tool or to ditch language classes in favour of a drink”.Continuing the theme of tipsiness, there was an aviation prize for a study on how alcohol can impair bats’ ability to fly and echolocate7, which explains why the animals tend to avoid eating fermented fruit.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03045-0
ReferencesDendi, D., Segniagbeto, G. H., Meek, R. & Luiselli, L. Afr. J. Ecol. 61, 226–227 (2023).Article
Google Scholar
Bartolucci, G. et al. Phys. Fluids 37, 044122 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Bulut, O. C., Oladokun, D., Lippert, B. M. & Hohenberger, R. Ear Nose Throat 102, 40–45 (2021).Article
Google Scholar
Berry, M. V. & Geim, A. K. Eur. J. Phys. 18, 307 (1997).Article
Google Scholar
Moeliker, C. W. Deinsea 8, 243–248 (2001).
Google Scholar
Renner, F., Kersbergen, I., Field, M. & Werthmann, J. J. Psychopharmacol. 32, 116–122 (2018).Article
Google Scholar
Sánchez, F., Melcón, M., Korine, C. & Pinshow, B. Behav. Process. 84, 555–558 (2010).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
How a silly science prize changed my career
Subjects
Scientific community
Latest on:
Scientific community
China’s private higher-education sector is at a turning point
Correspondence 23 SEP 25
How can universities train the skilled workers of tomorrow?
World View 23 SEP 25
US investment in African food systems will have global benefits
Correspondence 23 SEP 25
Jobs
Research specialist in integrated photonics
Seeking a Research Specialist in integrated photonics to support experiments, labs, training, and collaboration on cutting-edge research projects.
Gothenburg (Stad), Västra Götaland (SE)
Chalmers University of Technology - MC2
FAFU Global Faculty Recruitment
FAFU welcomes applicants of all nationalities to apply for faculty positions at any rank (full professor, associate professor, assistant professor).
Fuzhou, Fujian (CN)
Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University
Global Talent Recruitment-Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Leading Talent, Excellent Young Scholars (Overseas), Young Top Talents, Postdoctoral Fellow
Xi'an, Shaanxi (CN)
Hospital of Stomatology Xi’an Jiaotong University
Tenure-track Positions at The HIT Center for Life Sciences, China
Harbin, Heilongjiang (CN)
The HIT Center for Life Sciences (HCLS)
Tenure-Track/Tenured Faculty Positions
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China
School of Sustainable Energy and Resources at Nanjing University
Related Articles
How a silly science prize changed my career
Subjects
Scientific community
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited