I tested the best $20 security camera you can buy (and it works outdoors) | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Smart Home
Home Security
I tested the best $20 security camera you can buy (and it works outdoors)
The Blink Mini 2 is a feature-rich security camera that costs $20. An extra $10 gets you a waterproof adapter, making the deal even sweeter.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 25, 2025 at 12:30 p.m. PT
ZDNET's key takeaways The Blink Mini 2 is available for $40 on its own or bundled with a weather-resistant power adapter for $50With a stronger construction, improved video quality, a new spotlight, person detection, and weather resistance for outdoor use, the Blink Mini 2 is a definite upgrade from the first generationAs an Amazon device, the Blink Mini 2 works with Alexa but not Google Home, Matter, or other smart home systems. $19.99 at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.If you're looking for an affordable security camera that can rival the Wyze Cam in functionality and durability, Blink may have the one for you. Also: How I completed my ultimate smart home setup with this tablet hub (and why it works)I tested the Blink Mini 2 for a few weeks and noticed some big changes over the original Blink Mini, which I've had for almost two years. Widely known as an affordable indoor camera, the Blink Mini is a compact plug-in camera that can be installed anywhere inside or outside your home.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Blink Mini 2 The Blink Mini 2 is a compact plug-in security camera fit for indoor or outdoor use, featuring on-device person detection, Alexa support, a 143-degree FOV, and a built-in spotlight.
details
View at Amazon The older Blink Mini has two-way audio, 1080p video resolution, Amazon Alexa integration, and works as a chime for the Blink video doorbell. The new Blink Mini 2 has all these features, plus weather-resistant indoor and outdoor construction, person detection, and a spotlight.The weather resistance is a feature that takes the Blink to the next level, making it a direct Wyze Cam v3 competitor. Wyze Cam maker Wyze Labs has recently been the target of user frustration after a service outage led to a privacy incident where some users could temporarily see other users' live cameras and events.
The Blink Mini 2 next to a Wyze Cam v3. Maria Diaz/ZDNETAfter testing the Blink Mini 2, I spoke to Blink's head of product, Jonathan Cohn, to discuss the ins and outs of the new security camera. Cohn explained that after listening to user feedback, the company added weather resistance and a spotlight, which works as a light source for color night vision, to illuminate dark areas when motion is detected. The camera also has a recording indicator to deter would-be intruders.Also: This palm-recognizing smart lock left me wondering how I lived so long without itWhile not as bright as an outdoor light, the spotlight is bright enough to illuminate people as they approach and light up pathways in the dark. This made me consider setting up the Mini 2 by the garbage cans beside my house, but I decided against it since I don't have a power source nearby, and the camera needs to be plugged in at all times. The Mini 2 would go perfectly in a garage or a carport to illuminate a driveway or surveil a back door.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETLike the Blink Outdoor 4, the Blink Mini 2 can notify you when a person has been detected, ignoring all other motion powered by the Blink's silicon."Blink makes its chip and uses the chip on our cameras, which means we own the end-to-end experience and design of our camera," Cohn explained. Using proprietary silicon and design ensures Blink can guarantee the entire privacy and security experience from when the light enters the lens to the recorded video clips, Cohn added.Also: I replaced my deadbolt with this Apple HomeKey smart lock - and it's an iPhone user's dreamThough the Blink Mini and Mini 2 feature 1080p HD resolution video recording, the difference in the recorded clips is noticeable. Cohn explained that Blink significantly improved the Mini 2's video quality, increasing the field-of-view from 110 to 143 degrees for more coverage, increasing the sensor's lowlight capability, and improving the dynamic range.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETThis means the Mini 2 can capture clearer and more detailed images in mixed lighting, even if very bright and dark areas are in a single frame. A better dynamic range can show details in shadowy and brightly lit areas in a single video, making it easier to identify people and objects.ZDNET's buying adviceIn my home, the Blink Mini 2 replaced a Wyze Cam v3 in my sunroom. This is a fairly humid room with direct entry to my home, so a camera with a spotlight is better than one without. Since making the switch, I won't be going back.Blink cameras come with a 30-day free trial to the Blink Subscription Plan. The monthly subscription gives users cloud storage and extra features, like person detection and a continuous live feed for up to 90 minutes. You can bypass the subscription by purchasing a Blink Sync Module and a USB flash drive to store video clips, which is the solution I've set up in my home.Since my home relies on Amazon's Alexa, I appreciate that the Blink Mini 2 is quicker to connect to multiple Echo Shows than the Wyze camera, showing me what's happening in the sunroom. Blink doesn't integrate with Google Home, Apple HomeKit, Samsung SmartThings, or other smart home systems, which is a factor to consider if your smart home uses one.
When will this deal expire?
While many sales events feature deals for a specific length of time, deals are on a limited-time basis, making them subject to expiring at any time. ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best offers to help you maximize your savings so you can feel as confident in your purchases as we are in our recommendations. Our ZDNET team of experts constantly monitors the deals we feature to keep our stories up-to-date. If you missed out on this deal, don't worry -- we're continually sourcing new savings opportunities at ZDNET.com.
Show more
Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
DJI's new mini drone is a powerhouse with an upgraded camera, but I have two concerns
I replaced my iPhone 16 Pro Max with a 360-degree camera for underwater videos - it was so worth it
8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use