Does `git diff` pass down its own arguments to sub-commands? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Does `git diff` pass down its own arguments to sub-commands?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
34 times
1
Summary / Question
Does git diff pass arguments provided to it down through to sub commands (e.g. git grep) when invoked? For example, when calling git diff -G with an additional flag of -i as well (e.g. git diff -i -G "..."), it seems to be the case that the argument(s) from git diff is passed down to git grep even though there does not seem to be a mention of this behavior in the documentation.
Is this the correct understanding/intuition?
Could other arguments that are expected to be possible to be provided to git grep (for example) be provided to a git diff command and then be expected to be passed down through to git grep?
Details / Notes
Looking at the git diff command's documentation on/at https://git-scm.com/docs/git-diff, there is no mention of an -i flag or option that can be provided. However, there is a -G option which is a mnemonic for grep (as noted in the git diff core documentation linked for it). Neither the documentation for -G or the pickaxe section of gitdiffcore/https://git-scm.com/docs/gitdiffcore mentions if/how any arguments are passed between the commands, if at all. However, upon experimenting, it does seem arguments (some?) are passed between the commands. How exactly does this behavior work/where is it documented? Is this just a feature bug/fluke?
Reproducible Example
I have the following Git command:
git diff --diff-filter=d --name-only --relative -i -G "MyKeyword"
When executed as is against a Git repository with at least two files involving the keyword:
file.js containing MyKeyword
example.js containing mykeyword
I get the following results (as expected):
src/path/to/a/file.js
src/path/to/another/example.js
When I remove the -i flag and execute the command against the same Git repository with the exact same files and conditions, I get following results (as expected):
git diff --diff-filter=d --name-only --relative -G "MyKeyword"
src/path/to/a/file.js
The lower case instance in example.js does NOT match/is NOT found, which makes sense and is as expected.
Standard environment disclosure:
OS: MacOS
Chip: Apple Silicon
OS Version: 15.4.1 (Sequoia)
Git Version: 2.49.0
Other Notes: - No special distributions / changes / etc.
Relevant Common Scripts/Packages Used:
Delta Differ
gitgit-diffgit-grep
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 18 hours ago
DavidDavid
13144 bronze badges
1
2
I don't think that -G operates using git grep. There are no sub-processes involved. The documentation doesn't talk about -i. That is certainly an oversight. Or call it a "fluke" that it works as intended.
j6t
–
j6t
2025-09-16 06:56:34 +00:00
Commented
10 hours ago
Add a comment
|
Related questions
285
'git diff file' against its last change
116
"git diff" does nothing
0
What does git diff <commit> <commit> ... <commit> actually do?
Related questions
285
'git diff file' against its last change
116
"git diff" does nothing
0
What does git diff <commit> <commit> ... <commit> actually do?
1
Why git diff --name-only does not show any modified files?
4
Is "git restore <file>" the same as "get checkout -- <file>"?
62
What are the differences between these git diff commands?
240
How do I move a Git branch out into its own repository?
42
Order of commit arguments in git diff
75
What does it mean when Git diff shows mode changes?
3
What is the full list of git diff options
Load 7 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
gitgit-diffgit-grep
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
What an MCP implementation looks like at a CRM company
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
Is it OK to pray at breakneck speed?
Will gases contained inside a box eventually reach zero temperature?
What could be the meaning of the word "far" in "One far fierce hour and sweet"?
What resources are available for identifying a particular Space Shuttle launch?
Benjamin Steinberg, Representation theory of finite groups, proof of Theorem 6.3.9
Is there a deeper meaning behind the gesture of the statue here?
Come vs go in this situation
Why does the do-while loop in C-like languages require the curly brackets `{` and `}`? Wouldn't the grammar be perfectly parsable without them?
What is the purpose of this opening in the airplane interior?
For two normally distributed variables X and Y, does Spearman correlation imply Pearson correlation and vice versa?
Drawing nearest line between two points without crossing other lines in QGIS
"But I'll miss the bus for my game!" what is a teacher's legal liability for letting kids out of class without confirmation?
Using \add@accent to add a grave accent for a font that lacks the combining diacritic adds a left single quote instead
Can tubeless rim tape cause a puncture near a tube valve stem?
movie of space travelers landing on a planet where people live inside a mountain or underground and eat mushrooms as their staple
Did Trump say "smart people don't like me"?
Who is the model on this Cathy's Curse movie poster / DVD cover?
How to clear specific byte values inside a 64-bit value without looping
Does systemd-cryptenroll encryption with a TPM bind decryption to that TPM?
Every repetition of the same list manipulation takes longer
What happens when a card copying a Double Team card triggers?
Geometry-nodes: how to make a gradient texture that influences distributed points to follow a curve?
Why can't I run my xcode app on my phone?
What is the rationale behind the WebAssembly `if` statements behaving like `block` when it comes to breaking (`br`), rather than being transparent?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.15.33996