Gabriel Shoyombo on CSS-Tricks -
Skip to main content
CSS-Tricks
Articles
Notes
Links
Guides
Almanac
Picks
Shuffle
Search
Articles by
Gabriel Shoyombo
Gabriel is a front-end developer and technical writer. He specializes in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, Vue, TailwindCSS, and Bootstrap, with a track record of building high-quality and user-friendly websites and web applications. He is also passionate about sharing knowledge on the latest front-end technologies through informative and engaging technical articles.
github.com/DrPrime01
Direct link to the article image()
image()
The CSS image() function renders an image from a URL. We also can add a solid color as a fallback, specify the image’s direction, and use media fragments.
Sep 4, 2025
Direct link to the article image-set()
image optimization
image-set()
The CSS image-set() function allows the browser to display the best image from a given set of images.
Sep 4, 2025
Direct link to the article url()
url()
The url() function lets us import an external resource, usually a file, into CSS.
Sep 4, 2025
Direct link to the article fit-content()
grid
fit-content()
The fit-content() function combines the max() and min() functions in a single formula to calculate an element’s size
Aug 5, 2025
Direct link to the article steps()
animation
steps()
The CSS steps() function let us divide an animation/transition progress into a specified number of equal-length intervals or steps.
Jul 22, 2025
Direct link to the article linear()
animation
linear()
The linear() function let us define stops in an animation/transition, which will progress sequentially along a straight line.
Jul 22, 2025
Direct link to the article env()
env()
The CSS env() function replaces environment variables into CSS. To be more precise, it is a way to insert user-agent-defined variables into your stylesheet.
Jul 3, 2025
Direct link to the article matrix()
matrix()
The matrix() function combines all the 2D transform functions into a single CSS declaration. It covers the translate(), skew(), and scale() functions
Jun 2, 2025
Direct link to the article cubic-bezier()
animations transitions
cubic-bezier()
The cubic-bezier() function lets you define custom timing curves for CSS animations and transitions. It gives you precise control over how elements move. Beyond basic easing, it unlocks wild effects like elastic bounces, reverse flows, or multi-step pacing, all within …
May 21, 2025
TOC
Syntax
Arguments
Basic usage
Equivalent to easing keywords
Reverse motion
Elastic bounce
Multi-stage easing
Staggered flow
cubic-bezier() vs. Other timing functions
Demo
Browser support
Specification
Additional reading
CSS-Tricks is powered by DigitalOcean.
Keep up to date on web dev
with our hand-crafted newsletter
DigitalOcean
About DO
Cloudways
Legal stuff
Get free credit!
CSS-Tricks
Contact
Write for CSS-Tricks!
Advertise with us
Social
RSS Feeds
CodePen
Mastodon
Bluesky
Back to Top