Just got Linux Mint 22.2? Two more versions are coming soon - and they're big | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Just got Linux Mint 22.2? Two more versions are coming soon - and they're big
Linux Mint's developers are moving fast, with two new releases expected before the end of 2025.
Written by
Steven Vaughan-Nichols, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 8:37 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
SJVN / Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysTwo new versions of Linux Mint will appear this year.The first, LMDE, is based on Debian Linux 13.The second, Mint 22.3, will be the next mainstream release.Does it seem like Linux Mint developers just released a new version of their popular Linux distribution? Why, yes. Yes, they did. I installed Linux Mint 22.2, Zara, on Sept. 4. That isn't stopping Clement "Clem" Lefebvre from announcing that Mint will be releasing not one, but two, new versions of Linux Mint before the end of 2025.Also: How to easily switch your PC from Windows to Linux Mint - for freeFirst, the Mint programming team has kicked off development of Linux Mint Debian Edition (LMDE) 7, codenamed "Gigi." This is on top of the latest Debian Linux distro, Debian 13, Trixie, and it comes after the 2023 LMDE 6 release. Just in caseThe point of LMDE, as Clem has remarked before, is not to replace the mainstream Ubuntu-based Mint, but it's in case "Ubuntu was ever to disappear." This is not a new policy. Also: 7 most Windows-like Linux distros - if you're ready to ditch MicrosoftWhile Mint has never developed its own base distribution (as have Debian, Red Hat with Fedora, and CentOS Stream, or SUSE with SUSE Linux Enterprise), even back in 2013, Clem had said Mint was prepared if Ubuntu was to disappear. "It's important for us not to depend on our components, but there are no plans to replace Ubuntu. LMDE was partly started to prepare for this eventuality."It should be noted that Mint has often not seen eye-to-eye with Canonical, Ubuntu's parent company. In 2020, Mint stopped supporting Ubuntu's Snap package. Earlier, Mint had declined to support Ubuntu's proposed Mir display server/compositor. Coming in September and DecemberThe new LMDE will include Linux Mint 22.2's key enhancements. It will also finally include long-awaited support for OEM installations. This will enable PC vendors to more easily ship LMDE-equipped desktops and laptops.In a significant change, LMDE 7 will drop i386 support. Builds will be offered exclusively for amd64 architectures. This reflects the upstream decisions in Debian 13 to finally stop supporting the obsolete 32-bit architectures. The Linux Mint team expects to release the LMDE 7 beta later this September.Also: The best Linux distros for beginners in 2025Simultaneously, Mint's core developers plan to deliver Mint 22.3 by December 2025. This release has an intentionally short cycle. Its top priorities include a new application menu, a status applet, and Wayland-compatible handling for keyboard layouts and input methods.
These features are intended to modernize the Mint desktop further and address user feedback gathered throughout the year. It's also expected to fix a controversial change in the Mint-Y theme. Many users are disappointed by its poor contrast in the display's dark mode.
Also: Need Linux help? My favorite forums, groups, and mailing lists when I need supportFinally, this release will feature a new version of the Cinnamon desktop interface. Presumably, this will be Cinnamon 6.6. The latest shipping version is 6.4.8.
I'm a little bemused that Mint is releasing two new versions so soon after Mint 22.2 saw the light of day. Even so, I'm looking forward to both. When I next write about Mint, I expect to be doing it from a fresh installation of Mint 22.3.
Linux
Why Denmark is dumping Microsoft Office and Windows for LibreOffice and Linux
Apple quietly makes running Linux containers easier on Macs
Can't upgrade to Windows 11? This Linux distro is the best alternative for your Windows 10 PC
5 MacOS-like Linux distros that can rescue your old Intel Mac before support ends
Why Denmark is dumping Microsoft Office and Windows for LibreOffice and Linux
Apple quietly makes running Linux containers easier on Macs
Can't upgrade to Windows 11? This Linux distro is the best alternative for your Windows 10 PC
5 MacOS-like Linux distros that can rescue your old Intel Mac before support ends
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
7 most Windows-like Linux distros - if you're ready to ditch Microsoft
6 sudo tricks every Linux user needs to know - plus 1 just for fun
7 Linux terminal basics every beginner should learn first - and why
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use