Supreme Court allows Trump to fire -- for now -- remaining Democrat on FTC : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Supreme Court allows Trump to fire -- for now -- remaining Democrat on FTC At issue is whether the president has the authority to dismiss the heads of those agencies that are protected by Congress.
Law
Supreme Court allows Trump to fire — for now — remaining Democrat on FTC
September 22, 20253:49 PM ET
Heard on
All Things Considered
Nina Totenberg
Supreme Court allows Trump to fire -- for now -- remaining Democrat on FTC
Listen
·
3:59
3:59
Toggle more options
Download
Embed
Embed
<iframe src="https://www.npr.org/player/embed/nx-s1-5550307/nx-s1-9462882" width="100%" height="290" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" title="NPR embedded audio player">
The U.S. Supreme Court
Win McNamee/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Win McNamee/Getty Images
In an emergency order Monday, the U.S. Supreme Court allowed President Trump to fire Rebecca Slaughter, the last remaining Democratic member of the Federal Trade Commission. The court's action is technically temporary, since the justices said they will hear arguments in the case in December, but every indication is that the conservative court majority will use the case to reverse a major Supreme Court precedent that dates back almost a century. Congress created the FTC and lots of other agencies to be multi-member, bipartisan regulatory agencies. And the Supreme Court in 1935 upheld those statutes ruling ruled against then-President Franklin D. Roosevelt's claim that he could fire FTC commissioners at will. In a unanimous opinion at the time, the court said Congress acted within its powers in declaring that a commissioner could only be fired for misconduct — not for a policy disagreement.
Sponsor Message
But now, prodded by President Trump, the court's six-member conservative majority seems poised to remake the way independent agencies operate. And if the handwriting on the wall is as clear as it seems to be, the independent agencies won't be independent. Their membership will be subject to the will of the president. The court's action Monday was hardly subtle. While the lower courts had ruled that the president could not fire Slaughter, under the court's 1935 precedent, the conservative Supreme Court majority allowed the president to fire her. Indeed, her name isn't even on the FTC website anymore. And the court so far has allowed Trump to fire other agency board members. In short, the justices are not playing hide-the-ball. And it's a good bet that the court will reverse the 1935 precedent, which until now had been reaffirmed multiple times. The result will be that whereas in the past, these agencies had to be bipartisan, with a minority of opposition party members, now there will be no such requirement. In short, Trump can name all the agency members. And if his successor is a Democrat, he or she can fire all the Republicans. Since
Trump's appointment of three ultra-conservative justices, the Supreme Court's conservative majority has been edging ever closer to reversing the way independent agencies operate. The court's conservatives believe in a so-called unitary executive, meaning that the president is the executive branch, as Chief Justice John Roberts put it in granting Trump significant immunity from prosecution even when he was out of office.
Sponsor Message
The only exception to what likely will be a major legal tsunami may be the Federal Reserve Board. In an unsigned order earlier this term, the court so far at least seemed to think that the Fed is different because it was established by Congress 112 years ago to stabilize and modernize the banking industry and to set interest rates. But whether that will hold, is anyone's guess. Dissenting from Monday's order, Justice Elena Kagan, writing for the court's three liberal justices, said that Congress created the FTC and other independent agencies to ensure they would be bipartisan.
"The majority may be raring to change the law passed by congress nearly a century ago," she said. "But our emergency docket, should not be used, as it has been here, to transfer government authority from Congress to the President and thus to reshape the nation's separation of powers."
Supreme Court
FTC
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor