ExpressVPN vs. NordVPN: Two VPN Titans Battle It Out in a Close Contest That Goes Down to the Wire - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission. How we test VPNs
TechServices & Software VPN
ExpressVPN vs. NordVPN: Two VPN Titans Battle It Out in a Close Contest That Goes Down to the Wire
I compared CNET’s top two VPNs. Here’s how they stack up.
Attila Tomaschek Senior Writer Attila covers software, apps and services, with a focus on virtual private networks. He's an advocate for digital privacy and has been quoted in online publications like Computer Weekly, The Guardian, BBC News, HuffPost, Wired and TechRepublic. When not tapping away on his laptop, Attila enjoys spending time with his family, reading and collecting guitars. Expertise Attila has nearly a decade's worth of experience with VPNs and has been covering them for CNET since 2021. As CNET's VPN expert, Attila rigorously tests VPNs and offers readers advice on how they can use the technology to protect their privacy online.
See full bio
Attila Tomaschek
June 11, 2025
7:00 a.m. PT 13 min read
I’ve been using ExpressVPN and NordVPN for more than a decade, and have been consistently impressed with the exceptional quality of both services and how consistently each one has improved over the years. Both are two of the best VPNs in the industry and are neck-and-neck in virtually every category in which they compete, which makes comparing the two both easy and challenging. Easy because there’s not much to contrast between the two, and challenging because it’s difficult to declare a clear winner. Both providers offer fast speeds, intuitive apps, robust encryption, forward-thinking privacy protections, expansive server networks and excellent streaming capabilities. Perhaps where the two differ the most is in their pricing structures, though even that is largely comparable. Be prepared to pay a premium for either service but, either way, you’re getting the best of the best. ExpressVPN has the edge in privacy and usability, while NordVPN wins out for features and speed. Read on for a more detailed evaluation of how these two VPN giants stack up against one another in terms of speed, value, privacy and usability.  ExpressVPN vs. NordVPN comparedMajor features compared
ExpressVPNNordVPN Price $13 per month, $100 for the first 15 months (then $117 per year) or $140 for the first 28 months (then $117 per year)$13 per month, $60 for the first year (then $140 per year), $81 total for the first two years (then $140 per year)Average Speed Loss % 18%3%Server Network 11,500 plus servers in 105 countries7,400-plus servers in 118 countriesEncryption AES 256-bit, ChaCha20AES 256-bit, ChaCha20VPN Protocols Available Lightway, OpenVPN, IKEv2NordLynx, OpenVPN, NordWhisper, IKEv2Jurisdiction British Virgin IslandsPanamaCompatibility Windows, MacOS, Linux, Chromebook, Android, iOS, Fire TV, Android TV, Apple TV, RoutersWindows, MacOS, Linux, Chromebook, Android, iOS, Android TV, Fire TV, Apple TV, RoutersSimultaneous Connections 810
ExpressVPN
ExpressVPN
2024
Price $13 per month, $75 for the first year or $98 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $100 per year)Latest Tests No DNS leaks detected, 18% speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork 3,000 plus servers in 105 countriesJurisdiction British Virgin Islands
ExpressVPN is currently CNET’s Editors’ Choice Best Overall VPN thanks to its cutting-edge privacy protections, exceptional transparency, unrivaled streaming capabilities and incredible ease-of-use across platforms. Whether you’re a VPN veteran with critical privacy needs or a casual user who just wants something easy to use and the best VPN for streaming international content, ExpressVPN delivers. It’s not as loaded with extra features as NordVPN is, but ExpressVPN offers everything that most VPN users need and is top of its class at virtually everything it does.       With ExpressVPN, you’ll get a VPN that consistently sets the standard for privacy and transparency in the industry. Its Trust Center goes into extensive detail about everything the company does to maintain a secure infrastructure, innovate and protect user privacy. And while most of its competition has a handful of independent audits under its belt, ExpressVPN is leaps and bounds ahead of the pack with 22 independent audits since 2018. Independent audits, while imperfect and limited in scope, are still important trust signals in the VPN industry -- and are especially compelling when contracted at such a persistent clip.In addition to being an industry leader in privacy and transparency, ExpressVPN is tops for streaming and overall usability. Its minimalist app requires no learning curve and delivers a consistently flawless experience across all major platforms including Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, iOS, Apple TV, Fire TV Stick and Android TV. Its VPN router app is also by far the industry’s most intuitive and is available on various compatible router models including its own Aircove router. During our latest streaming tests, ExpressVPN excelled at accessing geo-restricted content from various popular streaming sites like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video and HBO Max across platforms including dedicated streaming devices. With an 18% average speed loss in our latest speed tests, ExpressVPN is plenty fast enough for streaming in 4K and other data-heavy tasks like gaming, torrenting and videoconferencing. You’ll get access to a vast global network of more than 11,500 servers across 105 countries, which should ensure fast, stable connections from virtually anywhere in the world. ExpressVPN allows for up to eight simultaneous connections, which is on the low end compared to the competition. NordVPN allows for up to 10 simultaneous connections, while others like Surfshark are unlimited. Considering ExpressVPN’s high prices, its restrictive simultaneous connection allowance is a bit of a disappointment even if it should be enough for most users. ExpressVPN costs $13 a month, $100 for the first year (then $117 annually) or $140 for the first two years (then $117 annually). All subscription plans include ExpressVPN’s Keys password manager and the longer-term plans include some combination of identity protection services like ID theft insurance, credit scanner, monthly credit reports and data removal. If you commit to two years up front, then you get the monthly credit report and data removal features. But strangely, both the yearly plan and the two-year plan cost the same ($117) upon renewal, despite getting fewer features with the yearly plan. A seven day free trial and 30-day money-back guarantee are available with all of ExpressVPN’s subscription plans.
73% off with 2yr plan (+4 free months). Now only $3.49/month
See at ExpressVPN
NordVPN
Price $13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 per year)Latest tests No leaks detected, 3% average internet download speed loss in 2025 testsNetwork 7,400-plus servers in 118 countriesJurisdiction Panama
If you’re looking for the fastest VPN on the market, NordVPN is a good bet. We measured a 3% average speed loss in our 2025 speed tests, which outshined the competition by a long shot. On top of being a speed leader, NordVPN is excellent for streaming, includes some useful privacy extras and has intuitive apps on most platforms.On top of standard privacy features like DNS leak protection, a kill switch and an audited no-logs policy, NordVPN offers a few extras like double-hop servers and Onion over VPN -- both of which help add extra layers of encryption. Keep in mind, though, that those extra layers of encryption will have a greater effect on your connection speeds, so these features are better used for heightened privacy needs than for streaming. With NordVPN, you’ll be able to connect through various VPN protocols including OpenVPN, the WireGuard-based NordLynx or the obfuscation-focused NordWhisper. A standout feature exclusive to NordVPN is its Meshnet tool, which is a semi-standalone multi-faceted feature that lets you host remote LAN parties, transfer large files securely, collaborate with others online and route your connection through your home network from anywhere in the world.In our latest tests, NordVPN expertly cut through regional restrictions on various popular streaming sites including Netflix, Disney Plus, Amazon Prime Video, BBC iPlayer, Hulu and Crunchyroll. Its blazing-fast speeds, excellent unblocking capabilities and expansive network of 7,400-plus servers across 118 countries make NordVPN a compelling option for traveling or for users looking to optimize their international streaming options. NordVPN allows for up to 10 simultaneous connections, which should be enough for most users, including those in large households or anyone with many devices they want to connect. Apps are available for Windows, MacOS, Linux (GUI), Android, iOS, Android TV, Apple TV and Fire TV Stick. NordVPN’s base VPN plan costs $13 a month, $60 for the first year (then $140 annually) or $81 total for the first two years combined (then $140 annually). The introductory pricing offers exceptional value for what you get with NordVPN, but the price upon renewal is extreme. All subscription plans are protected by a 30-day money-back guarantee, so you can try the service for a month prior to committing fully.
See at NordVPN
Speed winner: NordVPN was the fastest VPN in our latest testsAll VPNs will slow your internet speeds somewhat, sometimes even by 50% or more. At CNET, we generally like to see a VPN cut our base internet speeds by 25% or less -- which is our cutoff for categorizing a VPN as “fast.” With less than a 25% speed loss, you’re unlikely to notice any major performance issues, even if your base internet connection is on the slow side and you’re streaming in 4K or engaging in other data-heavy activities like torrenting or videoconferencing. Both NordVPN and ExpressVPN fall well below that 25% threshold, with NordVPN cutting our speeds by a mere 3% and ExpressVPN by 18% in our 2025 speed tests. If fast VPN connection speeds are your main priority, NordVPN is the way to go -- but ExpressVPN is no slouch when it comes to speed performance either.Value winner: NordVPN’s intro pricing is a decent value for a base VPN offering, but ExpressVPN’s renewal pricing is a bit more palatable than NordVPN’sExpressVPN and NordVPN are two of the most expensive VPNs on the market -- although they have vastly different pricing structures. NordVPN offers tiered pricing, with a Basic VPN plan (which includes only the VPN) all the way up to a Prime plan that includes the VPN, Threat Protection Pro, a password manager, cloud storage and a suite of identity protection tools. ExpressVPN forgoes tiered pricing in favor of three different subscription plan lengths that include the VPN, a password manager and varying levels of ID protection depending on which plan you purchase.Neither VPN’s pricing structure is ideal, though. Whereas NordVPN’s introductory pricing for its Basic plan is decent ($13 a month, $60 for the first year or $81 total for the first two years combined), the annual and two-year plans both renew at a preposterous $140 a year -- for just the VPN. ExpressVPN’s monthly plan costs $13 a month and includes the VPN, password manager and dark web monitoring. The yearly plan adds identity theft insurance and a credit scanner and costs $100 for the first 15 months and renews annually at $117. The two-year plan adds a monthly credit report and data removal services and costs $140 total for the first 28 months and renews at the same pricey $117 annual rate. Normally, I wouldn’t recommend signing on with a VPN provider for more than a year at a time due to how quickly things like performance, quality, policies and ownership can shift in the VPN industry, but ExpressVPN’s two-year plan offers more features than the yearly plan, but costs the same on an annual basis upon renewal. That is if you even want those extra features in the first place. For instance, ExpressVPN offers a monthly credit report in its two-year package, but what value does that really add when you can get a free credit report every week from each one of the national credit reporting agencies? Identity theft insurance can also be convenient in certain cases, but there’s no shortage of free resources you can take advantage of in case your identity is stolen. While ExpressVPN’s ID protection extras may sound good on paper, being forced to pay for them whether you want them or not is a tough sell. I’d much rather see ExpressVPN offer a base “VPN-only” subscription option at a more reasonable price to more appropriately cater to the budget-minded crowd who just wants a VPN for privacy and perhaps to unblock streaming content. I’m told by ExpressVPN spokespeople that an overhauled tiered pricing structure is on the horizon, so hopefully we’ll see a basic VPN plan without the forced extras come to fruition.If you want identity protection services from NordVPN on top of its password manager, cloud storage and Threat Protection Pro, you’ll need to spring for its Prime subscription tier which costs $18 a month, $108 for the first year (then $372 a year) or $177 total for the first two years combined (then $372 a year). That’s a considerable jump from its base VPN plan, but at least NordVPN offers a base plan (even if it is overpriced at renewal). Still, if adding identity protection services to your VPN plan is important to you, ExpressVPN is a much better value overall and costs $255 less annually than NordVPN upon renewal.Looking strictly at NordVPN’s Basic plan compared to ExpressVPN’s pricing, ExpressVPN is still the better value over the long-term despite NordVPN’s comparatively attractive introductory pricing. With ExpressVPN, you get a password manager included at a lower price upon renewal than NordVPN’s Basic plan, which doesn’t include a password manager. If you want to add NordVPN’s password manager, you’ll pay $14 pear month, $72 for the first year (then $180 annually) or $105 total for the first two years combined (then $180 annually) -- $63 more per year upon renewal than what ExpressVPN charges for the same services and more.Privacy and security winner: ExpressVPN’s privacy protections and transparency are nearly unmatchedAlthough NordVPN’s privacy posture is solid, ExpressVPN gets the edge here because of its innovative privacy initiatives coupled with transparency that goes above and beyond what most of the competition delivers.ExpressVPN’s TrustedServer technology takes the traditional principles of a RAM-only server infrastructure a step further by reinstalling the entire software stack in addition to wiping any data with every reboot, minimizing the risk of misconfiguration while ensuring no user data remains stored on a hard disk. ExpressVPN was also one of the first VPNs to implement post-quantum encryption to protect against potential future threats from quantum computers, and has recently integrated ML-KEM into the Lightway protocol to keep up with evolving post-quantum security standards. NordVPN followed suit and also recently rolled out post-quantum protections across platforms, similarly integrating the latest NIST standard ML-KEM algorithm into its NordLynx protocol. This has helped NordVPN come up to speed with ExpressVPN and other top VPN options for privacy-focused users. ExpressVPN’s 22 independent audits since 2018 leaves others, including NordVPN, in the dust. In that same time period, NordVPN has commissioned five independent audits, including a steady clip of annual audits in 2022, 2023 and 2024. However, NordVPN’s full audit reports are only available to customers, meaning that you have to register an account and buy a subscription to access the reports. ExpressVPN’s full audit reports, on the other hand, are available for the general public to scrutinize directly from its Trust Center, exemplifying its strong dedication to transparency.That said, both VPNs have strict no-logs policies that have been audited, which is more than many other VPNs can declare. Both NordVPN and ExpressVPN employ industry-standard AES 256-bit and ChaCha20 encryption and deliver other essential VPN privacy protections like a kill switch and DNS leak protection. Both are also based out of privacy-friendly jurisdictions (NordVPN in Panama and ExpressVPN in the British Virgin Islands) outside of the 14-Eyes data-sharing alliance.I like that ExpressVPN has a built-in ShuffleIP feature that automatically changes your IP address for every site you visit while connected to its network, giving you extra protection against the possibility of anyone tracing your activity back to you. NordVPN doesn’t offer such a feature but does include a few other privacy features that ExpressVPN doesn’t. For instance, NordVPN offers Onion over VPN, which leverages the Tor network, as well as double VPN connections, which route your traffic through two VPN servers instead of just one. Both of those features boost your privacy by supplying you with an extra layer of encryption. Although ExpressVPN is still the VPN I’d pick for critical privacy needs, I’d like to see the provider add the option for multihop connections in the future to make its service even stronger. Usability winner: ExpressVPN is the easiest VPN to use across all platformsI often recommend ExpressVPN to beginners because it’s the simplest VPN to use no matter what platform you’re using it on. The app delivers a consistent experience across platforms, is nicely minimalistic and easy to navigate. There’s no learning curve required with the ExpressVPN app, so it’s just as accessible to total newbies as it is to experienced VPN users. NordVPN’s app is also user-friendly, but somewhat more cluttered -- especially on mobile where the map navigation functionality dominates the interface. That said, I particularly like that NordVPN gives you the option to pause your VPN connection instead of disconnecting outright, which can be helpful if you need to jump off the VPN connection for a short amount of time but don’t want to risk forgetting to reconnect when you need it. Both VPNs offer apps for Windows, MacOS, Linux (with GUI), Android, iOS, Android TV, Fire TV and Apple TV. Both also work on routers, but ExpressVPN’s router app (which is compatible with various router models including its own Aircove router) delivers by far the most intuitive router setup in the industry. This makes unblocking geo-restricted streaming content with ExpressVPN on smart TVs and streaming devices like Roku without native VPN support almost too easy. I also prefer ExpressVPN’s Apple TV app over NordVPN’s because it’s far simpler to navigate, with servers organized in a sensible manner. While I use ExpressVPN’s Apple TV app on a regular basis in my free time, I stay away from NordVPN’s unless I’m actively testing it because it’s a pain to navigate, with side-scrolling navigation the only option to browse server locations arranged in no discernable manner. I find it a curious choice for a VPN that has servers in 118 countries. If you’re looking to stream content with NordVPN on a streaming device, its Fire TV Stick app delivers a far superior experience.     ExpressVPN and NordVPN are both excellent for streaming, with each provider expertly unblocking geo-restricted content on popular streaming sites like Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, HBO Max and BBC iPlayer. However, I found ExpressVPN to be slightly more reliable for unblocking content on various international Netflix libraries. For instance, my family and I routinely use ExpressVPN to unblock Hungarian content on Netflix, whereas NordVPN is unable to give us access to the same content. On the other hand, NordVPN offers servers in 118 countries while ExpressVPN has servers in 105, meaning that NordVPN should theoretically give you access to a wider range of international streaming content.I like ExpressVPN’s newly updated iOS app, which includes some nice usability enhancements, including quick access to the protocol selection functionality and more intuitive server navigation options. You can quickly choose your desired VPN protocol right from the home screen and easily select from the five most recent, fastest or most popular server locations based on where you are. Additionally, you can now sort server countries by the number of available endpoints and easily select from a list of city-level servers. NordVPN’s app allows you to sort countries by alphabetical order or popularity.     Bottom lineUltimately, whether you choose ExpressVPN or NordVPN, you’re making an excellent choice. Both VPNs sit at the very top of CNET’s list of the best VPNs available for a reason -- they’re first-class providers that deliver exceptional performance and privacy. Which one you choose will largely depend on what specifically you need from your VPN.If you’re looking for the fastest possible speeds from your VPN or if you want additional privacy features like double-hop connections or Onion over VPN, go with NordVPN. Also, if you find Meshnet helpful for what you do online, then it also makes sense to go with NordVPN -- although Meshnet is free to use whether you’re a NordVPN customer or not. If you’re looking for the easiest app to use across platforms and the best option for streaming, I recommend going with ExpressVPN. Also, if you have critical privacy needs and/or appreciate companies with elevated transparency efforts, ExpressVPN is a great way to go.
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.