Best Showerhead in 2025: Get Squeaky Clean With These Best-Rated Options - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Home Kitchen & Household
Best Showerhead in 2025: Get Squeaky Clean With These Best-Rated Options
Upgrade your shower experienced with these expert-tested showerheads offering everything from multiple spray patterns to built-in water filters.
Our Experts
Written by
Andrew Gebhart
Article updated on May 1, 2025 at 7:35 AM PDT
Andrew Gebhart Former senior producer
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Whether you're a homeowner or rent, installing a new showerhead is a simple DIY upgrade that can make a big difference in your daily routine. Upgrading your showerhead can address common issues such as low water pressure or hard water (which can cause hair and skin issues, such as dry skin and mineral buildup) or simply provide a more luxurious shower experience.
Our Picks
Best showerhead overall High Sierra Classic Plus
Jump to details
$45 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best showerhead features AquaDance 7-inch Premium Rainfall Combo
Jump to details
$29 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best premium-model showerhead Moen S6320
Jump to details
$187 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best rain showerhead American Standard Spectra eTouch
Jump to details
$82 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best showerhead for your smart home Kohler Moxie Showerhead
Jump to details
$55 at Amazon
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Showerhead in 2025: Get Squeaky Clean With These Best-Rated Options
What's the best showerhead overall?
Best showerheads for 2025
Best showerhead overall
Best showerhead features
Best premium-model showerhead
Best rain showerhead
Best showerhead for your smart home
Best showerheads compared
Other showerheads we tested
Factors to consider when buying a showerhead
How we test showerheads
From easy-to-install filtered showerheads to those offering multiple spray settings, there are a ton of options out there. Which is why our experts tested the best on offer, from rain showerheads that offer full body coverage to handheld heads with detachable hoses and high-pressure streams, to help you find the right one to add to your bathroom. Say goodbye to your boring old showerhead and level up your shower experience with one of these top options. Read more: Best Showerhead Filters of 2025What's the best showerhead overall?Overall, the High Sierra Classic Plus is the showerhead that came up on top as the best to elevate your bathroom experience. We liked its easy and noninvasive install, which is especially important if you're in a rented apartment. The price-to-value ratio is strong at only $47 retail. We also liked its water efficiency, elegant design and its wide and firm water pattern. Best showerheads for 2025
Tyler Lizenby/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lizenby/CNET
Best showerhead overall
High Sierra Classic Plus
Pros
Powerful, even with low water pressure or hard water
Simple and elegant design
Affordable
Cons
Doesn't offer alternate spray patterns
The affordable High Sierra Classic Plus showerhead gets all of the basics right. It has a wide coverage spray with plenty of firmness. I tend to like a relaxing stream on my body and a firm spray on my face and hair. The Classic Plus doesn't offer any alternate spray pattern settings, but the main one balances both of those needs well. If you tend to find a good default and stick with it, look no further. The Classic Plus has a simple and elegant design. It's one of the most affordable showerheads on this list and conserves water as well with a 1.5 gpm rating. If you're looking for something fancy with a wide variety of settings, I have plenty of alternate options below, but this is the Amazon Echo Dot of showerheads. It's simple, affordable and elegant. It's also powerful, even with low water pressure or hard water. If you don't care about extras and just want something to get the job done well, go with the water-saving High Sierra Classic Plus. Available in brushed nickel, bronze, polished brass, matte black or a chrome finish.  ... Show more
Get it now
$45 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Finishes
Chrome, matte black, nickel, oil-rubbed bronze, brassSpecial features
NonePressure (gpm)
Available in 1.25, 1.5, 1.8 and 2Price
$30
Add to compare
Andrew Gebhart/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Andrew Gebhart/CNET
Best showerhead features
AquaDance 7-inch Premium Rainfall Combo
Pros
Dual heads allow for multiple spray types
Loved the massage setting
Useful features include the ability to pause either stream
Cons
Using both showerheads results in lower pressure
Thinner stream than some models on our list
The AquaDance 7-inch Premium showerhead is a great choice if you're looking for a dual showerhead with a lot of features. It includes a handheld showerhead with a stainless steel shower hose and spray head that sit in place behind the main showerhead. Both offer six spray settings, including a full-coverage spray setting, an intense massage setting, one that mixes those two, and a mist. The full coverage setting on both the main shower and the handheld showerhead feels great. It balances firmness with wide coverage and still feels relaxing. The intense massage provided a great way to mix it up when I wanted to really feel the pressure and water flow. I ended up leaving the main rain setting on full coverage and kept the hand shower on the massage setting if I wanted that extra intensity.You can use the pause feature to stop the stream if you want to save water while you suds up. You can run both showerheads simultaneously on the same or different spray settings. You'll lose some water pressure with the dual shower setting, so you could just as easily switch back and forth from the main showerhead to the handheld shower. You can switch settings by turning a dial, or you can use the splitter to easily swap between the main showerhead and the handheld showerhead. Whatever you want your shower to feel like -- regular showerhead, handheld shower or dual shower -- this AquaDance has an option for you. If you're the type that likes options and likes to change spray settings based on your mood, this is the best showerhead for you.  ... Show more
Get it now
$29 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Finishes
ChromeSpecial features
Hand shower, multiple spray typesPressure (gpm)
Available in 1.8 and 2.5Price
$35
Add to compare
Andrew Gebhart/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Andrew Gebhart/CNET
Best premium-model showerhead
Moen S6320
Pros
Excellent balance of coverage and pressure
Smart and useful settings, including a wide-spray massage
Beautiful design
Cons
Expensive
Not ideal for those who desire a high-pressure spray
The Moen S6320 looks like a high-end shower with its 8-inch diameter and polished chrome finish. The main full-coverage setting again strikes the right balance between relaxing coverage and firmness. Plus, the S6320 switches to an intense massage setting that also feels great. Many of the massage settings I tested were too narrow to be useful outside of spot-cleaning. Moen's is still wide enough to provide actual coverage while providing a nice intensity boost. You can also switch back and forth easily with a handle on the side of the showerhead. It's simple enough to control that I was able to find it and switch the setting while my eyes were closed after suds-ing my face. If you want a showerhead that looks higher-end while still maintaining a simple elegance, the Moen S6320 fits the bill. It doesn't have a lot of features, but the two settings are both awesome and switching between them is so easy that you can do it with your eyes closed -- literally.  ... Show more
Get it now
$187 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Finishes
Chrome, matte black, brushed nickel, brushed gold, oil-rubbed bronzeSpecial features
Rain shower, adjustable water flowPressure (gpm)
2.5Price
$283
Add to compare
Andrew Gebhart/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Andrew Gebhart/CNET
Best rain showerhead
American Standard Spectra eTouch
Pros
Economical with water
Includes remote control
Cons
Mist and massage sprays are narrow
Rainfall setting on the gentle side
Expensive
Showering with the American Standard Spectra eTouch rain showerhead genuinely feels like standing under a gentle stream or outside during a warm summer rain. This bathroom accessory is super relaxing. The Spectra eTouch is pretty expensive for the brushed nickel or chrome finish, but it's economical with water at a 1.8gpm rating. The Spectra includes a remote you can attach to your shower wall to switch between four spray modes or simply touch the showerhead's rim to do the same. It feels high-tech without adding any complexity. The different settings include a fine mist and two varieties of an intense massage spray, although I found both too narrow to provide any coverage. The rainfall shower setting was also too gentle on my face, so the Spectra doesn't have a single setting that perfectly balances a firm feel and full coverage.  ... Show more
Get it now
$82 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Finishes
Chrome, bronze, nickel, polished nickelSpecial features
Rain shower, touch control, adjustable water flowPressure (gpm)
1.8Price
$136 - $193
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best showerhead for your smart home
Kohler Moxie Showerhead
Pros
Showerhead that doubles as a Bluetooth speaker
Waterproof speaker can be pulled free from the showerhead and used in other spaces
Cons
Actual showerhead is just OK
No alternate spray modes
No voice control for temperature or pressure
The Kohler Moxie combines a Bluetooth speaker with Amazon's assistant Alexa built-in and an otherwise ordinary showerhead. You can't control the water or temperature with your voice or an app, so I hesitate to call it a smart shower, but it's the closest to one on this list and much more attainable than the fully smart Moen shower, which requires a plumbing overhaul to install.The battery-powered speaker nests in the center of the showerhead with magnets, so you can easily pull it free and use it as a smart speaker in other rooms of your house. Thanks to Alexa, you can listen to music or issue a wide variety of voice commands. The speaker itself surprised me with its sound quality and it genuinely made my morning routines more fun. The showerhead itself is less impressive. The stream was intense but a little narrow, and it didn't have any alternate spray modes. It comes in a variety of finishes, at either 2.5 or 1.75 gpm.  ... Show more
Get it now
$55 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Finishes
Black, chrome, brushed nickelSpecial features
Detachable Bluetooth speakerPressure (gpm)
Available in 1.75 and 2.5Price
$83 - $100
Add to compareBest showerheads compared undefined High Sierra Classic PlusAquaDance 7-inch Premium Rainfall ComboMoen S6320American Standard Spectra eTouchKohler Moxie Showerhead Finishes Chrome, matte black, nickel, oil-rubbed bronze, brassChromeChrome, matte black, brushed nickel, brushed gold, oil-rubbed bronzeChrome, bronze, nickel, polished nickelBlack, chrome, brushed nickelPressure (gpm) Available in 1.25, 1.5, 1.8 and 2Available in 1.8 and 2.52.51.8Available in 1.75 and 2.5Special features NoneHand shower, multiple spray typesRain shower, adjustable water flowRain shower, touch control, adjustable water flowDetachable Bluetooth speakerPrice $47$30$194$78$70
Other showerheads we tested
Honorable mentionsKohler Forte 22169: Kohler's showerhead provides good coverage. The main setting strikes the necessary balance between feeling firm and still relaxing. You can easily switch to a concentrated massage mode or a fine mist. Overall, it's a solid, well-balanced fixed showerhead option that you should consider if you like the look or the brand. It even saves water with a 1.75 gpm rating. It simply didn't stand out as much as the ones above and the concentrated massage stream is too narrow to be useful.
Delta In2ition Two-in-One: This Delta showerhead features a clever adjustable showerhead design in which a handheld shower is nested within the main showerhead. The main shower provides the full coverage option, and the handheld shower offers a more intense stream. You can also run both the main and handheld shower at once, though the water pressure expectedly dips a bit, and I'm not a fan of low water pressure. The handheld showerhead easily pulls free, or you can leave the shower arm in place for a stationary massage stream. All of the settings are functional but the main coverage option is a little too weak for my tastes. The main showerhead is also a little hard to pivot, but that's a minor nitpick. This is a competent shower that's worth your consideration, but the little drawbacks took away just enough to prevent it from ranking higher for me.
Not recommended
Speakman S-2252-E175: None of the showers I tested were outright bad, but this model from Speakman doesn't have a strong enough stream for my tastes. The main mode is fine if underwhelming. The alternate nozzle setting effectively just lets the water pour straight out without any added water pressure or water flow at all. Overall, it was a low-water-pressure shower experience.
Culligan WSH-C125: This affordable model from Culligan includes a shower filter and has a bunch of different settings. Changing between the nozzle settings is a pain. The main shower works well enough, but none of the alternate modes are inspiring. Again, this is a competent bathroom shower, but you have plenty of better options.
Delta's clever showerhead tucks a handheld into the main body.  Andrew Gebhart/CNET Factors to consider when buying a showerhead
The price, finish and materials can vary wildly, and you can also look for the best showerheads with a lower gallons-per-minute rating if water conservation is a concern. You can get a fixed showerhead, which is attached to the wall, or one that includes a handheld sprayer. Some showerheads offer a wide variety of spray patterns (you don't have to be limited to rainfall if you want to switch your spray setting). Whether it's a handheld, dual, fixed, low-flow, high-pressure, combination or rainfall, your showerhead must have the essentials for hassle-free bathing: faucet, flow restrictor, filter, flexible hose and swivel ball.Mount type: Depending on your shower setup, you'll want to choose either a wall or ceiling-mounted showerheadSettings and features: Some showerheads offer multiple settings for different stream types and pressure levels including pulsing massage, rainfall and wide-spray.You can even score a showerhead with a built-in speaker for listening to music and podcasts while you wash up. Feature-heavy showerheads typically cost more so consider what your needs are beforehand.Finish: You'll likely want your showerhead to match or at least complement the other metal accents in your shower. Showerheads are available in loads of styles and finishes, including chrome, nickel, copper, bronze and black.Cost: Showerheads start at about $25 and go well into the hundreds of dollars. Settle on a price range before you start narrowing your search. How we test showerheads
I've taken a lot of showers over the past couple of weeks. When testing a showerhead system, I look at a lot of factors: The diameter of the face, the gallons-per-minute output, the number of settings, the materials, the design and more. We also run an anecdotal test on the water flow rate, water pressure and power of the spray pattern with dried egg yolk. More than anything, I showered and noted how each shower experience felt.
Some settings did a better job of removing eggs than others.  Andrew GebhartI leave each model installed for a couple of days so I can take a variety of showers. During the first shower with a new shower system, I'm paying close attention to each spray pattern and how they feel, but I also want to shower when I'm not thinking about it as much. With each model, I shower when I'm groggy in the morning and do a post-workout shower to cool down.
After every shower, I take notes on the shower experience. Was it firm, relaxing or both? Was the showering experience intense enough to get the soap and shampoo off quickly or did I have to change settings? Is it easy to change settings?
For the egg test, I brushed egg yolk onto a cutting board and let it dry for 24 hours. Then I held the board 20 inches from the showerhead while it ran for 10 seconds and noted how much yolk was removed. I ran this test for each setting on each showerhead. Most only removed a little yolk if any, but a few settings proved weaker or stronger relative to the rest.
Different showers check different boxes, but at the end of the day, what mattered most to me was the actual showering experience. None of the models I tested were terrible, but a few rose above the rest and cleaned up the competition.
Showerhead FAQs
What does a showerhead's gmp mean?
A showerhead's gallons per minute is the common way to measure a unit's pressure. Most showerheads range somewhere between 1.25 and 2.5 gmp. The higher the gpm, the more pressure your showerhead will be capable of.
Can you install a showerhead yourself?
Most showerheads do not require the expertise of a plumber or handyman to install. With simple tools such as a wrench or screwdriver and a stepladder. You may also need thread tape but that is commonly provided alongside the showerhead with purchase.
Do showerheads have filters?
Most showerheads don't have filters but you can purchase specialty showerheads to filter out impurities in your water such as chlorine and scale.
Will any showerheads fit in my showers?
Most wall-mount and ceiling-mount showerheads share a universal connection. You shouldn't have to worry about matching the showerhead to your specific shower unless you are dealing with an unusual design or looking to change the type of mount from your existing one.
About the Author
Andrew Gebhart Former senior producer Andrew Gebhart Former senior producer
Read full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.