Careers at PBS
Skip to main content
About PBS
Connect With Us
Menu
About PBS
Mission & Values
Stations
Senior Management Team
Board of Directors
Financials
Awards
Inclusion
Press Releases
Press Room
Careers
Contact Information
Social Media
Newsletters
PBS Program Contacts
WARN
FAQ
Support PBS
Support Your Station
PBS Foundation
Corporate Partnerships
Producing for PBS
Careers at PBSPBS is a membership organization that, in partnership with its member stations, serves the American public with programming and services of the highest quality, using media to educate, inspire, entertain and express a diversity of perspectives. PBS empowers individuals to achieve their potential and strengthen the social, democratic, and cultural health of the U.S.
View Open Positions
Existing Employee? Apply here
Menu
Organizational Values
Hiring Process
Learning & Development
Benefits
Internships
Open Positions
PBS Organizational ValuesShowcase"I’m looking forward to new adventures at PBS and getting the chance to grow and learn in such a great environment. I’m excited to be a part of something that gives back to so many people across the country, and that supports their employees in meaningful ways. My ideal workplace was somewhere that allowed me to exercise my creative and analytical sides of my brain while also contributing to a greater common good, and PBS has been the perfect match."Maggie Hardy, Senior Program Associate - General Audience Programming"Having never worked in public media, I didn’t know what to expect or if I even had a shot with PBS. But every conversation - from the first emails with my now-supervisor to the quick chats with future teammates, to my correspondence with HR and meeting department leaders - was about more than how my skillset fit the role, but about making real connections with people who wanted to see me succeed, no matter the outcome. That has carried over into a truly positive and uplifting work environment that I’m proud to be a part of today." Jimmy Donofrio, Director, Communications and Operations - Station Services"I’ve enjoyed working for a company where I can bring my whole self to work. My lived experiences as a mother, woman, and person of color are valued just as equally as my education and skills. I love that I’m trusted to do my job and provided autonomy to set direction and make decisions. At PBS, I’ve been able to define my own career and create a path for a bright future.”Tia Graham, Vice President, Individual Giving - PBS FoundationIt’s a privilege to work in an organization with such a strong legacy of service. Everyday, I get to work alongside creative and dedicated colleagues all focused on educating, inspiring and entertaining our audiences. I joined the team 22 years ago as Program Associate. I thought it was just a job, but I quickly learned how special this organization is. PBS taught me how to make the most out of what I can offer and provided incredible opportunities for me to do the same for others. If you are up for the challenge of a unique and awesome sized mission, consider joining our team!David Fields, Vice President, Content Operations - Technology and OperationsStop AnimationStart AnimationLIVE THE MISSIONWe believe in the power of PBS and local stations to impact people's lives.VALUE THE TEAMWe make each other better. The best ideas emerge through open doors and diverse viewpoints.LEAD BY EXAMPLEWe strive for excellence and act with integrity.EMBRACE POSSIBILITYWe are imaginative and curious, eager to learn, and unafraid to try.The Hiring Process1. SearchUse our careers site to find a job that fits your experience2. ApplyApply through our careers site and a recruiter will reach out3. InterviewInterviews will take place either virtually or in person4. OnboardingBecome part of the PBS community
Apply Now
"You make every day a special day just by being you, and I like you just the way you are." - Fred RogersLearning & DevelopmentPBS is committed to supporting our employees with professional growth and development opportunities. We offer a variety of Learning & Development resources to help our team expand their knowledge and skills. Below are some highlights of what we offer: LinkedIn Learning: All PBS employees have access to LinkedIn Learning, a library of more than 14,000 pre-recorded online learning courses on a vast array of topics.Team Building: PBS facilitates sessions within and across departments to strengthen working relationships.Coaching: All PBS staff and managers can take advantage of one-on-one coaching sessions to discuss:Personal and professional developmentCareer pathsLeadership developmentManagerial Development: PBS offers sessions designed to help managers enhance their leadership and management skills. Benefits at PBSMedical BenefitsMedical, Dental, Vision CoverageVacation Time17 days of vacation leaveSick Time12 days of sick leave annuallyVolunteer Time8 hours of Volunteer timeRetirementGenerous 403(b) employer contribution after one year of servicePaid Holidays13 paid holidays, including New Year’s Day, Juneteenth, and Presidents' DayEducationEducational Assistance ProgramOther BenefitsEmployer-Provided Life, AD&D insurance, Long-term and Short-term disabilityWellness ProgramPBS’s Wellness Program is designed to educate and promote well-being. We offer many activities that encourage and empower staff to engage in a healthy lifestyle: Our annual Wellness Fair invites staff to participate in fun activities while learning more about the wellness perks offered through our benefits vendors;Throughout the year, staff can win prizes by participating in friendly fitness competitions;Staff participate together in various local marathons, walking and cycling events;As part of our benefits package, PBS staff are eligible for discounted memberships at local gyms;PBS facilitates on-site seminars for staff to learn about healthy eating, mindfulness, and other wellness topics.ShowcaseLobby DeskPBS Headquarters, Arlington County, VAStation Map WallPBS Headquarters, Arlington County, VAWork StationsPBS Headquarters, Arlington County, VAEmployee LoungePBS Headquarters, Arlington County, VALogo WallPBS Headquarters, Arlington County, VAStop AnimationStart AnimationShowcase“My internship with PBS KIDS was very eye-opening and engaging experience! There was a lot of opportunities to be involved in things even past your initial responsibilities, and as a result I got to do many interesting things as well! It's a great team and a good working environment too.” – Christopher Kwok, Former Intern '22“I already knew that I wanted to be in kid’s media, and this summer solidified that. During my internship, I learned that I want to know about kids what they want/need from their interactions with media. Kids are the reason our content at PBS KIDS exist, and they are the experts in fun, so it is important to listen to their ideas to stay connected to the things they think/dream about.”  – Bailey Long, Senior Associate, Content, PBS KIDS/Former Intern '22  Stop AnimationStart AnimationInternshipsPBS welcomes a new internship class to our offices to our offices in Arlington and Alexandria, Virginia. Our Internship Program is designed to provide college students a practical and valuable experience that complements their major field of study. The program creates meaningful, hands-on experiences and gives students a glimpse into the world of public media. Interns work on key projects and are actively involved in business-critical work; they gain a global view of PBS by working collaboratively within their teams and across departments.Opportunities are posted in February each year on our Current Opportunitiespage.
Our sites
PBS KIDS
Parents
PBS LearningMedia
Food
Arts
Column Header
Black Culture Connection
Digital Studios
PBS Digital Downloads
Learn more
PBS Foundation
The Value of PBS
About Us
Press Releases
Newsletters
Public Editor
Column Header
Careers
Contact Us
Support PBS
Producing for PBS
News & Updates
Help & FAQ
Copyright © 2025 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), all rights reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Marketing Preferences