Best Ring Doorbell Cameras for 2025: The Newest Ring Doorbells Tested by Experts
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Security Security Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells of 2025
Step into the Ring alarm ecosystem with our top-tested picks for the best Ring doorbell cameras, recommended by CNET experts.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Written by
Macy Meyer
Written by
David Anders
Article updated on September 1, 2025 at 2:59 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Macy Meyer Writer II Macy is a writer on the AI Team. She covers how AI is changing daily life and how to make the most of it. This includes writing about consumer AI products and their real-world impact, from breakthrough tools reshaping daily life to the intimate ways people interact with AI technology day-to-day. Macy is a North Carolina native who graduated from UNC-Chapel Hill with a BA in English and a second BA in Journalism. You can reach her at mmeyer@cnet.com. Expertise Macy covers consumer AI products and their real-world impact Credentials Macy has been working for CNET for coming on 2 years. Prior to CNET, Macy received a North Carolina College Media Association award in sports writing.
See full bio
David Anders Former Senior Writer David covered broadband providers, smart home devices and security products. Expertise Broadband providers | Home internet | Security cameras
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Important features
Does the Ring doorbell have two-way audio, motion detection and other key features? Are you willing to pay for a Ring subscription to get features like video storage and object detection?
Latency
Does the doorbell have any problems with latency and alerts? Can it be positioned close enough to your Wi-Fi network?
Live view
Does the Ring camera on the doorbell show a clear image with the right resolution for easy live viewing?
Smart home
Are you happy with Ring doorbells that are largely limited to Amazon Alexa compatibility?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Setting up your home security can seem like a daunting task, but it's quite simple. You can get started with a video doorbell, which will keep an eye on your main entry point to the home, letting you track any interactions happening in the area. If all the pressure from tariffs is getting to you and you're rushing to grab one, you're not alone. A recent CNET survey found that one in 10 US adults is looking at making a tech purchase before the tariff pricing hits. If that's you, and you want to choose right, you can't really go wrong with Ring -- one of the biggest names in home security thanks to its extensive selection of security cameras and doorbells. Our Picks
The best overall Ring video doorbell
Ring Battery Doorbell Pro (2024)
Jump to details
$180 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best value for price Ring video doorbell Ring Video Doorbell (2nd-gen)
Jump to details
$55 at Ring
Jump to details
Best well-rounded Ring video doorbell Ring Battery Doorbell Plus
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best cheap Ring video doorbell Ring Video Doorbell Wired
Jump to details
$50 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best Ring video doorbell for apartments Ring Peephole Cam
Jump to details
$130 at Amazon
Jump to details
OUTDOOR SECURITY CAMERA DEALS OF THE WEEK
Blink Outdoor 4 1080p Security Camera (3-Pack):  $100 (save $160)
TP-Link Tapo C120 2K QHD Security Camera:  $25 (save $16)
Ring Spotlight Cam Plus Battery Camera (2022 Release, White, 2-Pack):  $180 (save $101)
Blink Outdoor 4 XR 2 Camera Kit With Mini 2 Camera:  $110 (save $110)
Arlo Pro 5S 2K Spotlight Camera (White, 3-Pack):  $200 (save $250) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Ring Video Doorbells of 2025
What is the best Ring video doorbell?
Best Ring video doorbells of 2025
The best overall Ring video doorbell
Best value for price Ring video doorbell
Best well-rounded Ring video doorbell
Best cheap Ring video doorbell
Best Ring video doorbell for apartments
Ring video doorbells compared
Factors to consider when choosing a Ring video doorbell
How we test Ring video doorbells
Placement and installation for video doorbell cameras
Ring's portfolio has grown considerably over the years, and it now offers many more options. We've been testing and reviewing every member of the ever-growing list of the latest doorbell products from Ring, keeping an eye on all the upgrades and differences between models. To help you choose, we've put together this roundup of home-tested Ring products, featuring some affordable choices as well as a few options for those living in apartments.What is the best Ring video doorbell? Our current top pick for the best Ring doorbell is the Ring Battery Doorbell Pro, offering bird's eye views, custom motion zones and a solid battery life via a removable battery pack. If you want to stick with your existing doorbell wiring and say goodbye to battery-powered doorbells, don’t worry -- Ring has you covered there, too. Whether you want to get a Ring video doorbell for your own home or as a tech holiday gift for a new homeowner or renter, you'll find an option below. And while you're at it, take a look at our best video doorbell list and best outdoor cam guide to check out other brands like Nest and Arlo in addition to Ring.Note: Ring has come under criticism for its privacy policies in the past. As a result, the company has now removed an option that allowed police to request video footage from the company for any reason. It's a privacy improvement that makes Ring's policy more similar to Google and other security companies. Best Ring video doorbells of 2025
CNET/Tyler Lacoma
Photo Gallery 1/4
The Ring Battery Doorbell Pro prior to our full installation.  CNET/Tyler Lacoma
The best overall Ring video doorbell
Ring Battery Doorbell Pro (2024)
7.25
/10
SCORE
Pros
Very large field of view
HD+ resolution
Color night vision
Advanced motion detection
Quick replies
Battery or wired
Cons
Expensive
Bulkier than comparative doorbells
Battery case could be sturdier
The latest Ring doorbell also has some of its best features, including a particularly large field of view and built-in options to manually charge the slip-out battery or connect the doorbell to a constant source of power. The motion detection is backed by the best Ring video features too, including 3D detection and Bird’s Eye Views that, when set, provide tracked paths that moving objects took while in view. It also has extra features like Quick Replies you can set for premade instructions as well and standards like two-way audio and night vision (in color for this model).The resolution is also an interesting upgrade that only the latest Ring doorbells have, offering “HD+” 1536p video for a bit of extra detail. The traditional Ring caveats still apply: Smart home compatibility is primarily limited to Alexa, and object recognition or video storage will require a Ring Protect plan. Our review also found that the doorbell is a bit bulkier and lacking some of the compact durability of similar models like the Google Nest doorbell. But in all, this large, powerful cam is Ring’s best option, especially for those looking for excellent video that captures a broad area in the front of their home.  ... Show more
Get it now
$180 at Amazon
$180 at Ring
Specs & Configurations
Field of view
150 degrees horizontal and verticalVideo storage
Via Ring Protect plan or locally with a Ring Alarm Pro systemObject detection
Person and package detection available only via Ring ProtectSmart home support
Amazon Alexa Score Breakdown
Performance
7
Usability
7
Features
9
Design
6
Learn more
Ring Battery Doorbell Pro (2024) review
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best value for price Ring video doorbell
Ring Video Doorbell (2nd-gen)
Pros
Affordable
Battery or wired options
Competitive field of view
Quick Replies
Cons
No color night vision
No 3D motion detection
No enhanced field of view
This older Ring doorbell combines affordability with a nice array of features. Like our top pick, it can be used either as a battery model or wired into existing doorbell power depending on your placement. The HD video is very competent with a field of view that’s great for a doorbell without reaching the broad angles of our top pick.Once again, object detection and video storage are supported with a Ring Protect plan, and quick reply options are included if you’d rather not use the two-way audio at all. It’s a great middle-of-the-road pick for a Ring doorbell with a price low enough to help those looking to save money.  ... Show more
Get it now
$55 at Ring
Specs & Configurations
Field of view
155 degrees horizontal, 90 degrees verticalVideo storage
Via Ring Protect plan or locally with a Ring Alarm Pro systemObject detection
Person and package detection available only via Ring ProtectSmart home support
Amazon Alexa
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best well-rounded Ring video doorbell
Ring Battery Doorbell Plus
Pros
Useful balance of features and price
Great field of view
Cons
Construction still feels a little flimsy compared to competitors
The Plus model is an effective combination between the expensive new Battery Pro and the older, more affordable second-gen Video Doorbell. It includes the high-end features like HD+ resolution and an extra large field of view while keeping the price low by cutting features like the Bird’s Eye view. The result is a very well-rounded video doorbell for people who want something more than a budget model but don’t want to spend too much.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Ring
Specs & Configurations
Field of view
150 degrees horizontal and verticalVideo storage
Via Ring Protect plan or locally with a Ring Alarm Pro systemObject detection
Person and package detection available only via Ring ProtectSmart home support
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best cheap Ring video doorbell
Ring Video Doorbell Wired
Pros
Cheap model
Good field of view
Night vision
Two-way audio
Cons
Wired only
Those looking for a cheap video doorbell that will save them money -- while offering all the benefits of a Ring Protect plan and similar features -- can’t do much better than this wired model. It still includes all the important basics like night vision, two-way audio and a healthy field of view. However, you will need to place it where your existing doorbell is, which can limit some of your options.  ... Show more
Get it now
$50 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Field of view
155 degrees horizontal, 90 degrees verticalVideo storage
Via Ring Protect plan or locally with a Ring Alarm Pro systemObject detection
Person and package detection available only via Ring ProtectSmart home support
Amazon Alexa
Add to compare
Amazon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Amazon
Best Ring video doorbell for apartments
Ring Peephole Cam
Pros
Perfect for apartments without doorbells
Battery power makes for easy installation
Two-way audio
Field of view similar to doorbells
Knock sensor
Cons
Made mostly for doors that have peepholes
Subscription still locks some important features
You don’t need to live in an apartment to use the Ring Peephole Cam, but it’s specially designed for people in apartments or those who don’t have room for a doorbell. It really can act as a digital doorway peephole in the traditional sense, but the real value comes from all the video doorbell features you get in such a compact package. Those features include a surprisingly large field of view for such a small device, two-way audio communication and motion detection with adjustable motion zones. The HD cam is battery powered with Ring’s quick-release battery, which makes installation especially easy. There’s even a feature that detects knocks if you’re not at home to hear them.  ... Show more
Get it now
$130 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Field of view
155 degrees horizontal, 90 degrees verticalVideo storage
Via Ring Protect plan or locally with a Ring Alarm Pro systemObject detection
Person and package detection available only via Ring ProtectSmart home support
Amazon Alexa
Learn more
Ring Peephole Cam review
Add to compareRing video doorbells compared
Best Ring Video DoorbellsRing Battery Doorbell Pro (2024)Ring Video Doorbell (2nd-gen)Ring Battery Doorbell PlusRing Video Doorbell WiredRing Peephole Cam Price $230$53$150$50$130Resolution 1536p/HD+1080p/HD1536p/HD+1080p/HD1080p/HDPower Battery or wiredBattery or wiredBattery or wiredWiredBatteryNight vision Color night visionYesColor night visionYesNoObject recogniton Person and package with subscription onlyPerson and package with subscription onlyPerson and package with subscription onlyPerson and package with subscription onlyStorage options Subscription only via Ring ProtectSubscription only via Ring ProtectSubscription only via Ring ProtectSubscription only via Ring ProtectSubscription only via Ring ProtectVoice assistant Amazon AlexaAmazon AlexaAmazon AlexaAmazon AlexaAmazon AlexaReview score N/AN/AN/AN/A7.8/10
Factors to consider when choosing a Ring video doorbell
Ring's motion zones help increase accuracy, among other benefits. CNET/Tyler LacomaWhen you're looking for a video doorbell, the most important question isn't "Which one is best?" so much as "Which one is best for me?" All of Ring's video doorbells perform well -- and all of them come from the same company, with the same troubling history of facilitating video sharing with police. Not all of them will be ideal for you. Important FeaturesVideo doorbells should have key features like night vision, two-way audio and motion detection. Those are more or vital parts of this type of security camera. Then several other features are also very important for doorbell management, including object detection to spot alerts about packages, and video storage so you can keep the recorded clips rather than just relying on live views.Does it work with smart home platforms? If so, do the smart features work well together? Amazon’s Ring is an Alexa-focused brand, which is great for those who have Echos or Echo Shows that let them look through the doorbells’ live views. However, you won’t have other smart home compatibility here outside of Alexa apps or devices.LatencyLatency is particularly important for video doorbells because you want the doorbell to detect movement quickly and alert you in a timely way so you can check the door or retrieve a package ASAP. Object recognition is good, but it can often slow down reaction times for the doorbell. Speedy recording and alerts are important for overall quality of life.Quality of the live view? Doorbells are often exposed to direct sunlight, but many others are installed under porches, near shady trees and in all sorts of other settings. It's important that the camera has night vision and can handle any of these scenarios so you don't get stuck with a nonfunctioning product that can't see faces under a porch.  How we test Ring video doorbells
Have an apartment? Ring's Peephole model still allows you to protect your front door. RingTesting to determine the best of the best in video doorbells is similar to how we test any other home security camera. For this article, we went through setup, installation and performance of multiple Ring video doorbell models. That included plenty of experiments to see how motion detection and object recognition work, as well as evening tests to experiment with the night vision features. We also put features like two-way audio to the test to check on clarity, and review video clips to see how storage and retrieval work, among other factors.
Placement and installation for video doorbell cameras
Unlike other home security cameras, placement for video doorbells is very limited. You can place it where your previous doorbell was or pick a side of your door. Too far away from your door and the video doorbell loses much of its usefulness. You'll also need to follow the height direction. For most video doorbells including Ring, that means placing the doorbell about four feet from the base of the door so it gets a good view of people and packages alike.
Best Home Security Systems of 2025
See at CNET
Ring video doorbell FAQs
How long does a Ring doorbell battery last?
If your Ring doorbell isn't hardwired, the battery charge will typically last between six and 12 months, depending on the frequency of use and motion activations. You will receive an alert via the Ring app when the battery is getting low.When charging your Ring doorbell's battery, be sure to let it sit until fully charged, if possible, as doing so can help prolong the life of the battery.
Is Ring a one-time purchase?
A monthly subscription isn't required to use your Ring device, but there are three protection plans available if you'd like additional video storage and features. The lowest tier, which starts at $5 per month, adds important features like object recognition and video storage. The highest tier is designed more for whole Ring Alarm systems and won't be necessary if you're only getting a doorbell.
How are Ring doorbells powered?
Most Ring doorbells are powered by a rechargeable battery or have a battery backup, so losing power to your home shouldn't disrupt power to your device. Still, a power outage may affect your Ring device if your router loses power and the Wi-Fi connection is lost.
Does Ring offer professional home monitoring services?
Ring focuses on DIY devices and systems that don’t require any kind of monitoring to use. On their own, Ring video doorbells don't offer professional home monitoring. However, if you install a Ring Alarm system, you have the option of choosing the Ring Protect Pro plan, which includes 24/7 home monitoring as part of its services.
What is Ring Neighbors?
Neighbors is a separate Ring app that's connected to the Ring app you use to control devices like doorbells. It's more of a community-focused, social app. You can share videos with people in your community, get alerts from videos others share in return and similar activities. Some people like the extra assurance it provides since they can get notifications about residential crime or other happenings.
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Also written by
Macy Meyer Writer IIAlso written by
David Anders Former Senior Writer
Home Security Guides
Security Cameras
Best Home Security Camera
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Cheap Home Security Cameras
Best Indoor Home Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbell Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells
Best Nanny Cams
Arlo Pro 4 Review
Ring Alarm Pro Review
Security Services
Best Home Security System
Best Home Security for Renters
Best Cheap Home Security Systems
Best DIY Home Security Systems
Vivint Home Security Review
Simplisafe vs. Ring
ADT Home Security Review
ADT vs. Vivint
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.