android - Is it possible to collect code coverage for a shared library (.so) without using an executable file in LLVM? - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Is it possible to collect code coverage for a shared library (.so) without using an executable file in LLVM?
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
15 times
Part of Mobile Development Collective
0
I am working with an Android application (APK) that uses JNI and depends on a shared library. I modified the build parameters to include code coverage instrumentation. After running the APK on an Android device and pulling the .profraw files from the device, I merged them into a .profdata file using llvm-profdata merge.
However, I am unable to generate code coverage reports in HTML format because the llvm-cov tool requires an executable file as input, but my target is a shared library (.so file). Since .llvm-cov cannot take a shared library as input directly, I am looking for a way to use the .so file or some workaround to analyze coverage data.
I tried using llvm-cov with the .so file, but I encountered the error that llvm-cov expects an executable file. I also tried to link the shared library with a small executable program and run it locally, but my goal is to avoid creating an additional executable for the sole purpose of generating coverage reports.
➜
test llvm-cov show --instr-profile default.profdata libmap-render.so
warning: libmap-render.so: profile data may be out of date - object is newer
error: libmap-render.so: Failed to load coverage: No coverage data found
I was expecting a way to either:
Use the .so file directly with llvm-cov.
Find a method to link the shared library into a reportable format without the need for an additional executable file.
The solution I'm looking for should allow me to generate an HTML coverage report without needing to create a new executable from the .so file, as I already have the .profraw files from running the APK on the device.
androidclangcode-coveragetest-coverage
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 16 hours ago
叶甜心叶甜心
111 bronze badge
Add a comment
|
Related questions
9
How to filter files in llvm-cov code coverage report?
2
How to get Bazel code coverage summary for C++?
8
How to convert llvm profraw to cobertura
Related questions
9
How to filter files in llvm-cov code coverage report?
2
How to get Bazel code coverage summary for C++?
8
How to convert llvm profraw to cobertura
3
how can i get code coverage with clang++ 13.0.1 on mac?
0
Generate code coverage report using Firebase testLab. Get one report instead of multiple .ec files
10
Android instrumentation tests for library module coverage
Load 3 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
androidclangcode-coveragetest-coverage
See similar questions with these tags.
Mobile Development
Collective
See more
This question is in a collective: a subcommunity defined by tags with relevant content and experts.
The Overflow Blog
Democratizing your data access with AI agents
The history and future of software development (part 1)
Featured on Meta
Spevacus has joined us as a Community Manager
Introducing a new proactive anti-spam measure
New and improved coding challenges
New comment UI experiment graduation
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
Hot Network Questions
Stretch an elastic band around three nails so that it relaxes when any nail is removed
rkhunter Updates -- "no updates" for several months now
Do academics mind if someone outside their field critiques their work?
What qualifies to be a "family of statistical tests" for Bonferroni corrections?
Change the font for the dagger symbol in math mode
I'm having a hard time intuiting throttle position to engine rpm consistency between gears -- why do cars behave in this observed way?
List of crowdsourced math projects actively seeking participants
Does the Arostotelian species-genus concept apply to non-living things?
What is the exact method of calculating a number needed to treat (NNT) in a meta-analysis?
How can an alien symbiote coexist with the immune system long-term?
What is the Occultist class in 5e?
Can the price of a gap option be negative?
Identifying voltage regulator on induction hob (marked FF 04)
What does "transform into the character pulled into the UFO" mean?
how would you formalise in first order logic the sentence "I am a liar"?
Removing temporary LaTeX files
Does pseudo-vitae revenants produce replenish vitae in Kindred?
Regulator circuit outputs negative current
How to draw the following graph in latex?
Can Monks use their Dex modifier to determine jump distance?
Marking utensils for ownership
What is an aggravating factor and why is kinship considered one?
What is the exact meaning of olcAccess: {1}to dn.exact="" by * read
What exactly makes something a "phased-out creature"
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
default
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.25.34480