Best iPhone Deals: Preorder Offers Knock Up to $1,100 Off the iPhone 17 Series Right Now - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Article updated on Sep 12, 2025
apple event
Deals
Best iPhone Deals: Preorder Offers Knock Up to $1,100 Off the iPhone 17 Series Right Now
Preorders for the new iPhone models are now open, and these carrier deals are too good to miss.
By
Adam Oram
,
Ingrid Cruz
,
Connor Jewiss
26 phones on sale
Why You Can Trust CNET
Our expert deal-hunting staff showcases the best price drops and discounts from reputable sellers daily. If you make a purchase using our links, CNET may earn a commission.
James Martin/CNET
As expected, September 9's Awe Dropping Apple event gave us our first look at the highly anticipated iPhone 17 series, along with plenty of details about the new AirPods Pro 3 and the latest Apple Watches. These next-gen models will hit shelves on Sept. 19, and preorders are now live.Both retailers and carriers are offering substantial launch discounts, and we've rounded them all up below. For the time being, the iPhone 16 series is still the latest available, and carriers and retailers are eager to move their remaining stock to make room for the new models. That means that there are some excellent discounts you can take advantage of right now if you're looking to grab one of these soon-to-be older models.If you're on a tight budget, you can also shop previous-gen models like the iPhone 15. It's getting a little tough to find them in stock, but they're usually available for hundreds off. To help you find the right iPhone for your needs and budget, CNET shopping expert Adam Oram has rounded up the easiest ways to put one in your pocket for less. Below, you'll find the best deals on the iPhone 17, iPhone 16, iPhone 16E, iPhone 15 and iPhone 14, grouped by generation.Hey, did you know? CNET Deals texts are free, easy and save you money.iPhone 17 preorder dealsThe brand new iPhone 17 series will hit shelves and start shipping on Sept. 19, and preorders are now open. The basic iPhone starts at $799, while the iPhone 17 Pro starts at $1,099 and the 17 Pro Max jumps up to $1,199. There's also the new ultra-thin iPhone Air, which starts at $999.
Apple One of the easiest ways to save on a new iPhone is by trading in your old model. Apple offers up to $700 in trade-in credit, but that's only in exchange for one of its latest models. Older iPhones, as well as phones from Samsung, Google and other brands are also accepted, but won't be worth quite as much. You'll also get 3% cash back when you make the purchase with an Apple Card.*
Details
Save up to $700 with trade-in, cash back
See at Apple
Close
AT&T You can save big on the iPhone 17 series with an eligible trade-in at AT&T. Devices valued at just $130 or more will knock up to $830 off the basic iPhone 17 and the iPhone 17 Air, while devices valued at $180 or more will save you up to $1,100 on the iPhone 17 Pro and 17 Pro Max. That means you're getting the basic iPhone 17 or 17 Pro for free, the iPhone 17 Air for around $5 per month and the 17 Pro Max for around $3 per month. Discounts are applied as bill credits over 36 months.
Details
Save up to $1,100 with trade-in
See at AT&T
Close
Best Buy Best Buy won't be carrying any unlocked models, but does have availability for both AT&T and Verizon customers. There aren't any special offers at the moment but the tech retailer does have its own trade-in program, which can save save you up to $375 in exchange for your old phone. The latest iPhones will net you the biggest discount, but phones from Samsung, Google and many other brands are also accepted.
Details
Save up to $375 with trade-in
See at Best Buy
Close
Verizon Verizon is keeping the specifics under wraps, but its preorders should be live imminently. It's already confirmed that it will be offering trade-in discounts of up to $1,100 off the iPhone 17 lineup for those who are either upgrading or adding a new line on a qualifying unlimited plan. We'll update this page as soon as more details become available.
Details
Save up to $1,100 with trade-in and new line
See at Verizon
Close
iPhone 16 dealsThere are a lot of savings to be had on all the models in Apple's iPhone 16 lineup, including carrier deals that can nab you the device free if you have an older device to trade in.
iPhone 16 at Apple Trading in your old phone at Apple could save you up to $700 on any iPhone 16 model. Previous-gen iPhones will net the biggest discount, but Apple also accepts devices from Samsung, Google and OnePlus. You'll also get 3% cash back if you buy it with your Apple Card*. If you let Apple connect you to a carrier, you could save up to $1,000 with trade-in credit.
Details
Save up to $700 with trade-in or up to $1,000 with carrier deals
See at Apple
Close
iPhone 16 at T-Mobile T-Mobile is offering tons of discounts on the iPhone 16 series. If you're on an Experience Beyond plan, trading in an old device in any condition will save you $1,000. You can also save up to $830 if you're on an Experience More plan, or up to $300 for most other plans. T-Mobile is also offering $830 off with a new line and a trade-in, or when you switch from another carrier to an Experience Beyond plan. Plus, there are special offers for military members, first responders and folks older than 55.
Details
Save up to $1,000 with trade-in
See at T-Mobile
Close
iPhone 16 at AT&T AT&T is offering great deals on the iPhone 16 lineup. Those on an eligible unlimited plan can trade in their old phone for up to $700 off the iPhone 16 or $1,000 off the Pro or Pro Max. If you don't have an eligible trade-in, you can get the iPhone 16 Plus for just $11 per month or when you purchase on an installment plan, which will save you up to $534.Note that you must switch to an eligible unlimited plan to get these offers and the discounts will be applied as bill credits over 36 months. AT&T is also offering a special online-only offer of $200 with the activation of a new line.
Details
Save up to $1,000 with trade-in
See at AT&T
Close
iPhone 16 at Verizon Adding a line on an Unlimited Ultimate plan at Verizon will save you $830 on the basic iPhone 16, $930 on the iPhone 16 Plus, $1,000 on the iPhone 16 Pro and $1,200 on the iPhone 16 Pro Max, which scores you a free phone. Discounts are applied as bill credits over 36 months.All four models also come with a free NFL Sunday Ticket membership for new or returning subscribers.
Details
Save up to $1,200 with new line
See at Verizon
Close
iPhone 16 at Best Buy Best Buy isn't carrying any unlocked iPhone 16 models right now, but is offering some savings through AT&T or Verizon. AT&T customers can save up to $700 on the basic iPhone 16 or up to $1,000 on the 16 Pro and Pro Max models with a trade-in and qualified activation.If you're a Verizon customer, an eligible trade-in and qualified activation could save you up to $930 on the basic 16 and 16 Plus or $1,000 on the 16 Pro and Pro Max.
Details
Save up to $1,000 with carrier offers
See at Best Buy
Close
iPhone 16 at Target
Target is offering up to $830 off the basic iPhone 16 and $1,000 off the iPhone 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max with an eligible trade-in. Just note that you'll have to visit your local Target store in person and sign up with AT&T to take advantage of these offers
Details
Save up to $1,000 with trade-in
See at Target
Close
iPhone 16E dealsThe budget-friendly iPhone 16E is now available and there are plenty of iPhone 16E deals for those wanting to save on Apple's most affordable member of the family.
iPhone 16E at Apple When you trade in an eligible device, Apple offers savings on the new iPhone 16E. Trading in an old phone could save you up to $700, which can potentially score you the basic 128GB model free. However, that discount is only available if you're trading in the iPhone 15 Pro Max, which would be a bit of a downgrade. For the iPhone 14 series, the most you'll save is $470, which is still a solid deal for this affordable model. Note that the older your phone is, the less you will potentially receive for a trade-in device. Apple phones also earn more than Samsung or Pixel devices. You'll also get 3% cash back if you buy it with your Apple Card*.
Details
Up to $700 off with trade-in
See at Apple
Close
iPhone 16E at Best Buy If you order the iPhone 16E at Best Buy and sign up with a carrier, there are ways to save. A qualified activation with Verizon and a trade-in of your old or damaged phone will save you up to $600. If you're an AT&T customer, a qualified activation on an eligible unlimited installment plan can save you up to $384, which drops the starting price to just $6 per month. Discounts will be delivered via bill credits over 36 months.
Details
Up to $600 off with qualified activation and trade-in
See at Best Buy
Close
iPhone 16E at T-Mobile Customers at other carriers can save up to $630 when they switch their existing number over to T-Mobile, which makes the basic iPhone 16E free. You'll also get the phone free with a trade-in and a new line on most plans. Just a trade-in can save you up to $830 if you're on an Experience More or Experience Beyond plan, or $300 for most other plans. There are also several special offers for military members, first responders and people 55 and older.
Details
Free when you switch carriers
See at T-Mobile
Close
iPhone 16E at Verizon Adding an Unlimited Plus or Ultimate line will save you $600 on the iPhone 16E at Verizon, which means you can pick up the 128GB model free right now. The discounts will be applied as bill credits over 36 months.You'll also get a free NFL Sunday Ticket membership with the purchase if you're a new or returning subscriber.
Details
Free with new line
See at Verizon
Close
iPhone 16E at AT&T AT&T is offering up to $384 off the iPhone 16E when you purchase it on an installment plan, as long as you have (or switch to) an eligible unlimited plan. That reduces the starting price to just $6 per month with no trade-in required. You'll receive the discount via 36 monthly bill credits.
Details
Save $384 with installment plan
See at AT&T
Close
iPhone 16E at US Cellular US Cellular is offering multiple ways to save on the iPhone 16E. Activating a line or account on a qualifying line will save you up to $830, which will score you the 128GB, 256GB or 512GB model free. You can also save $350 if you choose to pay for the entire phone up front with a new prepaid line.
Details
Up to $830 off with new line
See at US Cellular
Close
iPhone 16E at Boost Mobile Order your iPhone 16E at Boost Mobile and sign up for the Unlimited Premium plan ($60 a month), and you can snag a new iPhone for as little as $100. You can also pay full price for the phone upfront, which gets you a free year of service.
Details
Up to $500 off
See at Boost Mobile
Close
iPhone 16E at Walmart You can order the iPhone 16E from Walmart for $549 or a little more than $15 per month for 36 months with an eligible activation with AT&T.
Details
Up to $100 off
See at Walmart
Close
iPhone 15 dealsThe iPhone 15 series hit shelves in September 2023. And although the phones in this lineup are now two generations old, they still have plenty to offer, with the basic model even retaining a spot on our list of the best phones. Plus, it's pretty easy to get your hands on one of these previous-gen models for less right now, which makes them a good value for Apple users on a budget. Now that the iPhone 17 lineup has been announced, you can no longer buy the iPhone 15 directly from Apple.
iPhone 15 at AT&T AT&T is offering discounts in the form of monthly bill credits when you buy a new iPhone 15 on an installment plan. People who have or switch to an eligible unlimited plan can get the basic iPhone 15 for just $8 per month, which is $442 off the usual price. This offer also knocks $544 off the price of the iPhone 15 Pro Max, which drops it to just $21 per month. At the moment, there aren't any discounts available on the iPhone 15 Plus, and the iPhone 15 Pro is sold out.
Details
Save up to $442 with installment plan
See at AT&T
Close
iPhone 15 at Verizon Adding a line on an Unlimited Welcome, Plus or Ultimate plan gets you the iPhone 15 or 15 Plus free, with no trade-in required. These discounts are applied in the form of monthly bill credits over 36 months. The iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max are currently sold out.You'll also get a free NFL Sunday Ticket membership with the purchase if you're a new or returning subscriber.
Details
Free with new line
See at Verizon
Close
iPhone 15 at T-Mobile The iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max are sold out at T-Mobile, but there are plenty of ways to score some savings on the other models. You can get either the basic iPhone 15 or the 15 Plus free with a new line and a trade-in, or save up to $830 when you switch your existing number from another carrier. Plus, trade-ins on most plans will save you up to $300. There are also special offers for military members, first responders and people older than 55.
Details
Save up to $830 with trade-in
See at T-Mobile
Close
iPhone 15 at Best Buy Best Buy is offering a $100 direct discount on the iPhone 15 right now, bringing the price down to $630. In addition, Best Buy's trade-in program lets you exchange your old phone for extra savings.Plus, all iPhone 15 purchases come with some freebies, including two free months of Apple TV Plus and three free months of Apple Fitness Plus, Apple Music and Apple Arcade -- as long as you're a new or returning subscriber.
Details
Save $100 plus more with trade-in
See at Best Buy
Close
iPhone 14 dealsThe iPhone 14 series is still a popular line of phones and comprises the iPhone 14, iPhone 14 Plus, iPhone 14 Pro and top-spec iPhone 14 Pro Max. Apple discontinued the 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max in September 2023, so finding these phones in new condition is getting tougher but they're still a solid value when you can find them in stock and on sale.
iPhone 14 at T-Mobile Only the basic iPhone 14 is still available at T-Mobile. You can snag one free with a trade-in and new line, or when you switch your existing number over to T-Mobile. Other offers include up to $315 off with the activation of a new line and up to $300 off with an eligible trade-in. T-Mobile has exclusive offers for military members, first responders and people older than 55, too.
Details
Free with trade-in and new line
See at T-Mobile
Close
iPhone 14 at AT&T AT&T isn't offering any direct discounts or special offers on the iPhone 14 right now, but you can save with an eligible trade-in. You'll also save $200 on a line when you set it up online. And you can save $50 on a pair of PowerBeats Pro 2 when you bundle them with this purchase until Oct. 16.
Details
Save with trade-in
See at AT&T
Close
iPhone 14 at Verizon Add a line on an Unlimited Welcome, Plus or Ultimate plan and you can get the iPhone 14 or 14 Plus free at Verizon. The discount comes in bill credits over 36 months and there's no trade-in required. Note that Verizon is only carrying certified refurbished models of the iPhone 14 Pro and Pro Max, although you can still pick them up at a discount with a new line. You'll also get a free NFL Sunday Ticket membership with the purchase if you're a new or returning subscriber.
Details
Free with new line
See at Verizon
Close
iPhone 14 at Best Buy Best Buy has knocked $80 off select configurations of the iPhone 14. Plus, the retailer has its own trade-in program where you can score extra savings of up to $330 in exchange for your old phone. You can also save an extra $100 if you let Best Buy help you connect your phone to a carrier.Best Buy isn't carrying any new 14 Pro or Pro Max phones, although it does have some refurbished models.
Details
Save $80, more with trade-in credit
See at Best Buy
Close
Join Our Daily Deals Text Group!
Get hand-picked deals from CNET shopping experts straight to your phone.
Sign Up
By signing up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to receive recurring marketing messages at the phone number provided. Consent is not a condition of purchase. Reply STOP to unsubscribe. Msg & data rates may apply. View our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
Sarah Tew/CNETHow we choose the best iPhone deals at CNETMany of us here at CNET have covered deals on top tech for more than five years, including cell phone deals from brands like Apple, Google, OnePlus and Samsung. In that time, we've learned how to spot the best deals from trustworthy retailers and carriers to simplify the phone-buying process. We look for direct discounts, trade-in offers and other bonuses offered for unlocked and carrier phones when choosing the best deals for you and avoid online shopping scams. Don't miss any of our unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add CNET as a preferred Google source on Chrome.*All information about the Apple Card has been collected independently by CNET and has not been reviewed by the issuer.
Impulse Buys Under $25 on Amazon That Make Surprisingly Great Gifts
+17 More
See all photos
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.