Zoning out in meetings? Google Meet's new feature can catch you up in real time | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
Zoning out in meetings? Google Meet's new feature can catch you up in real time
Google's Ask Gemini feature offers in-meeting notes, summaries, and key points. Here's who can try it and when.
Written by
Jada Jones, EditorEditor
Sept. 18, 2025 at 9:44 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysAsk Gemini is now available for some Google Meet users.It offers meeting notes, key takeaways, and live summaries. The AI assistant protects user privacy and has some limitations.Your Google Meet meetings are about to get more helpful, thanks to additional Gemini features built into the platform. According to Google, new Ask Gemini features include real-time summaries of what someone said in a meeting, catching up on the meeting's contents if you join late, and identifying key points and action items during the meeting.Also: ChatGPT just got a new personalization hub. Not everyone is happy about itCurrently, you can summon Gemini to take notes for your ongoing Google Meet meeting, but there's a minutes-long lag, and the best option is to receive Gemini's notes once a meeting ends. How the new features work Ask Gemini differs from Gemini's meeting notetaker in that it is a real-time, in-meeting tool that doesn't store meeting information once it ends. In a blog post, Google said Ask Gemini uses meeting captions, Google search, and public websites to generate answers to in-meeting questions. Ask Gemini also uses Google Workspace resources like Google Docs, Sheets, Slides, and Gmail, but users must have permission to view these resources for Gemini to access them.Also: Gemini just aced the world's most elite coding competition - what it means for AGIAccording to Google, Ask Gemini acts as a personal AI-powered assistant within a Google Meet, and users' interactions with and responses from Ask Gemini are private.Users can consult Ask Gemini about what was discussed in a meeting before they joined, but only if Gemini's Take Notes for Me is active. According to Google, Ask Gemini is only available in English, with more language support coming soon, though it's unclear exactly when. This feature is also only available on desktop, and is currently not supported in breakout meeting rooms.Google Meet meeting hosts and co-hosts can turn off Ask Gemini for all meeting participants in Host controls. If Ask Gemini is enabled for a meeting, participants will be shown a consent banner, and dial-in participants will hear an announcement that Ask Gemini is in the meeting.How to try it Ask Gemini is a Google Workspace-exclusive feature. Workspace is built for businesses and gives them access to Google's range of productivity tools for $7 per month per user to start, with bespoke pricing for larger teams. Google said Workspace admins should note that Ask Gemini in Google Meet is toggled on by default, and admins can adjust it at the domain, organizational unit, or group level in admin settings.Also: Google's new study tool personalizes your learning material - here's howAsk Gemini will be available for Google Workspace Enterprise Plus, Enterprise (Standard), Business Plus, and Business Standard plans. It's currently available for Workspace Business Plus customers, and will roll out to other Workspace plans in late 2025 or early 2026. Artificial Intelligence
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
I retested GPT-5's coding skills using OpenAI's guidance - and now I trust it even less
How to use GPT-5 in VS Code with GitHub Copilot
This is the fastest local AI I've tried, and it's not even close - how to get it
Is ChatGPT Plus still worth $20 when the free version offers so much - including GPT-5?
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
How people actually use ChatGPT vs Claude - and what the differences tell us
Gemini arrives in Chrome - here's everything it can do now
You can chat with Copilot in Firefox now - and Windows users get an extra perk
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use