4 things the game doesn't tell you in Hollow Knight: Silksong
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
4 things the game doesn't tell you in Hollow Knight: Silksong
By
Dylan Turck
Published 17 hours ago
Dylan Turck is a PC hardware, software, and gaming reporter who loves writing how-to guides and in-depth features on the latest tech products. When he's not shocking himself by pulling electronics apart or trying to get 100% achievements in a game, you can find him in a country far away, learning about new people and cultures.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Hollow Knight: Silksong builds on the formula that made Team Cherry’s first game a modern classic. Pharloom is bigger and more vertical, but it’s also full of hidden mechanics that are easy to miss. Beyond Hornet’s needle and silk powers, Silksong packs clever systems that change how you fight, explore, and even spend your hard-earned rosaries. Here are four surprising things you probably didn’t know you could do in Hollow Knight: Silksong.
You can taunt enemies to attack you
I have the high ground!
Hornet comes with a taunt ability from the moment you start the game. Press V on the PC or click the right stick (R3) on the controller, and Hornet will taunt the enemy with a flick of her sword and a shout. After this, enemies in range will aggro, rushing to your location. Most players will come across the move while learning the controls and probably won't think about it again.
However, the move can be applied in a wide range of scenarios and is particularly useful when you are just starting out. Flying enemies become much easier to deal with, shielded foes can be baited into charging you and exposing themselves, and you can even taunt multiple enemies into a corner and use an AOE (Area of Effect) attack to clear the field. Because it uses a small amount of silk, a taunt isn't something you can spam, but it can help you to land the first blow or coax the enemy into an advantageous position.
You can store money in your inventory
Turn your beads into strings and necklaces
Rosaries, the red beads Hornet collects throughout her journey, are the game's main form of currency. And while hoarding these may seem like a good idea, the downside is that you lose them if you die. You can recover lost beads by breaking your cocoon after dying. But if you die before that, those beads are lost. Luckily, there is an easy way around this that the game doesn't outright tell you. Instead of gambling your Rosary Beads on “one more run”, turn your money into Rosary Strings or Rosary Necklaces instead. These items will let you “store” beads safely in your inventory, so that you can save them. This should be done often, especially if you are planning to explore a new area, as this is where you will die the most. Crafting the Rosary String will cost you 80 Rosary Beads to make, but it will only store 60 beads, with the other 20 beads acting as a fee or tax. You can make the Rosary Strings using machines in certain camps or rest spots. The Rosary Necklace can be bought from a mid-game merchant and will cost you 140 beads, letting you store 120 beads per necklace. You can hold a maximum of 20 Rosary Strings and Rosary Necklaces in total, letting you store up to 3600 Rosary beads safely.​​
You can get a money gun
Put your money where your mouth is
While Hornet's needle and silk powers form the backbone of her combat, Silksong also lets players experiment with some quirky tools. Among the strangest is the Rosary Cannon, a device that literally turns your money into ammunition. You can find the Rosary Cannon in the High Halls. To get it, you'll need to break through two hidden walls and open a locked door with a simple key. There will be a chamber with some loot, and parts of a machine hanging from the roof. This machine is the bottom of the Rosary String Dispenser, and when you break it you will be rewarded with the Rosary Cannon. Once acquired, the Rosary Cannon allows Hornet to load up to 80 rosaries as ammunition, unleashing a Gatling gun-style attack. This attack is great for boss fights or when facing hordes of enemies. Since rosaries are crucial for buying maps, upgrades, and other tools, this isn't the most practical weapon. But if you use it sparingly, it can be a powerful addition to your arsenal of weapons and tools.
You can get a Bellhome in Bellhart
No more benches for you
Resting at benches is the main way you save your progress in Hollow Knight: Silksong. Benches are great for providing a safe place between dangerous locations, but they don't appear to offer Hornet much comfort. Luckily, towards the late game, you can unlock your very own bellhome for Hornet in Bellhart. Getting the keys to your home is easier said than done, though. You will first need to do a few quests for the people of Bellhart. To start, you will need to lift the curse on the town by defeating the Widow. After doing so, you will need to donate rosary beads to restore the town, the first costing 250 beads and the second costing 400. Then you must complete all remaining wishes on the quest board. After completing all of this, you can proceed to speak with Pavo and obtain the Bellhome Key. The Bellhome isn't just cosmetic. Inside, you'll unlock features like a desk to display relics, Gleamlights for decoration, and even a personal spa where Hornet can fully restore health and silk. Furnishing the house requires rosaries, and a lot of them if you want everything. But it's well worth it for your very own home in Pharloom.
There are hidden secrets everywhere
Hollow Knight: Silksong continues in the footsteps of its predecessor. Team Cherry has delivered us another Metroidvania masterpiece with new secrets to find under every rock and around every corner.
10/10
Hollow Knight: Silksong
10 stars
9 stars
8 stars
7 stars
6 stars
5 stars
4 stars
3 stars
2 stars
1 star
Like
Metroidvania
Action
Adventure
Soulslike
Systems
OpenCritic Reviews
Top Critic Avg:
91/100
Critics Rec:
95%
Released
September 4, 2025
ESRB
Everyone 10+ / Fantasy Violence, Mild Blood
Developer(s)
Team Cherry
Publisher(s)
Team Cherry
10 Images
Close
Where to play
Close
WHERE TO PLAY
SUBSCRIPTION
DIGITAL
As the lethal hunter Hornet, adventure through a kingdom ruled by silk and song! Captured and taken to this unfamiliar world, prepare to battle mighty foes and solve ancient mysteries as you ascend on a deadly pilgrimage to the kingdom’s peak.Hollow Knight: Silksong is the epic sequel to Hollow Knight, the award winning action-adventure. Journey to all-new lands, discover new powers, battle vast hordes of bugs and beasts and uncover secrets tied to your nature and your past.
Powered by
Expand
Collapse
Gaming
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with a Raspberry Pi instead of a mini PC
3 days ago
The Steam Deck LCD is currently 20% off on Steam, but only if you're quick
2 days ago
4 Zotero plugins that are my productivity secret weapon
2 days ago
This creepy ESP32 "soul pendant" is the perfect accessory for Halloween
More from our brands
'Broodfeast' quest walkthrough in Hollow Knight: Silksong
'Silver Bells' quest walkthrough in Hollow Knight: Silksong
It's Official, Hollow Knight: Silksong Is The 10/10 Masterpiece Fans Wanted It To Be
How to Beat Moss Mother in Hollow Knight Silksong
Silksong broke me — then it got good
Hollow Knight: Silksong - Things You Should Always Buy From Merchants
8 Hollow Knight: Silksong beginner’s tips to help you get started
Today's best deals
This niche space sandbox game with 96% positive reviews is at its lowest price ever on Steam
32 minutes ago
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
4 hours ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
7 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I migrated my self-hosted services from one Proxmox node to another, and it was shockingly easy
Your next Snapdragon device may help you locate stolen devices right out of the box
Qualcomm's Snapdragon X2 Elite reference designs go so hard this year
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.