Disney Boycott Calls Lead People to Cancel Streaming Services - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Media
'We vote with our dollars': People are boycotting Disney and canceling their streaming subscriptions
By
Henry Chandonnet
and
James Faris
A boycott Disney sign held outside of the Jimmy Kimmel Live! studio.
Mario Tama/Getty Images
2025-09-19T19:45:37Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
ABC's decision to suspend "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" has been met with calls to boycott the brand.
Many people are pledging to cancel their Disney+ and Hulu subscriptions in protest — and some are following through.
While past boycotts of Tesla and Target have shown signs of financial impact, it's not clear if the same will be true for Disney.
As people online debate cancel culture after Jimmy Kimmel's suspension, some Disney critics are hitting the literal cancel button.
Those angered by Disney-owned ABC's decision to take Kimmel off the air are turning to a new pressure point to express their anger at the House of Mouse: canceling their streaming subscriptions.Google searches for "cancel Disney Plus" and "cancel Hulu" have spiked in the days since the network's suspension of Kimmel, whose comments about Charlie Kirk's suspected shooter drew threats from FCC chair Brendan Carr.
Calls for a boycott against Disney have spread across social media — and some Disney and Hulu subscribers told Business Insider they're putting their money where their mouth is.Gary and Cheryl Anderson called from their honeymoon. The Atlanta-based realtors canceled their Disney streaming bundle on Thursday over concerns of "freedom of speech," Cheryl, 51, said."We don't even watch Jimmy Kimmel at all," Gary, 54, said. "Things that are supposed to be thought of as a given as it relates to American life, those things are being constantly trampled down."
Gary was especially dissatisfied with ESPN, which is majority owned by Disney. He watched it every morning, but when Trump was elected, it became "a negative way to start my day," he said. Kimmel was their final straw, he said.
Gary and Cheryl Anderson unsubscribed from their Disney bundle.
Cheryl Anderson
The Andersons have a long history of boycotts. Gary said that they stopped going to Publix and Papa John's over political issues. "We vote with our dollars," he said.They also said they wouldn't be resubscribing, even if ABC put Kimmel back on the air. Cheryl quoted Maya Angelou: "When someone shows you who they are, believe them."
David Axe, 47, canceled his Disney+ and Hulu subscription on Wednesday. The Columbia, South Carolina resident is not much of a Kimmel fan — "Jimmy Kimmel's not funny, but that's not the point," he told Business Insider — but was disappointed in Disney's actions."If Disney's going to cave to Trump, then Disney doesn't get my money," he said. "It's not a lot of money, but that's the power that I have over Disney, as tiny as it is."Axe thought it was bad business for Disney, too. He's a former Forbes writer who has since moved to Substack. Comedians like Kimmel didn't need Disney and could easily go independent, he said.
Axe said his friends are also canceling their Disney subscriptions. What would get him to resubscribe? "Is Disney going to un-cancel Jimmy Kimmel?" Axe asked. "Do the right thing. Let a comedian be funny."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider has reached out to Disney for comment on the streaming cancellations and boycott calls.Shae Noble, 38, a Disney superfan from Washington state, told Business Insider that she's planning to cancel her family's Disney+ and Hulu subscriptions and trips to Disney parks after ABC suspended Kimmel, whom she's a fan of. Disney also owns Hulu.
"It's just shocking to see freedom of speech be stifled in our country directly from the president," Noble said.
Shae Noble said she's considering cutting back on her trips to Disney's parks.
Shae Noble
Noble said that while she still loves Disney, she's putting her fandom on the back burner to send a message to the company. Boycotts against Target and Tesla appear to have made an impact, she said, and she's emboldened by social media posts of other Disney adults doing the same."Our politicians just aren't listening; corporations aren't listening," Noble said.
On Instagram, posts on the topic are filled with comments about how users want to "stand for something" and "boycott all Disney movies." Multiple Reddit threads about canceling Disney+ have over 1,000 comments."Remember how we sank Target? Let's show Disney and its affiliates too!" one Instagram commenter wrote.Some social media users said that Disney+'s cancellation page crashed the day after the Kimmel announcement. Others posted proof of their cancellations, using an optional text box for the reason behind the decisions as an opportunity to speak out against Disney. One X user wrote that they canceled because the company "caved to MAGA!"; another said they wrote "Jimmy Kimmel."
I wrote, "Jimmy Kimmel - Trump Sux[image or embed]— ลุง Paul (@pspdiver.bsky.social) September 18, 2025 at 4:42 PMActor Tatiana Maslany, who starred in Disney+'s "She-Hulk: Attorney at Law," urged her 512,000 followers on Instagram to "cancel your @disneyplus @hulu @espn subscriptions!"The chatter online has also translated to an increase in people Googling instructions on how to do so, even as many conservatives, including Trump, praised the decision to suspend Kimmel.Search volume for "cancel disney plus" reached hit a 12-month high at 9:00 p.m. on Thursday, according to Google Trends, and continues to be elevated. Terms like "boycott disney plus" and "boycott disney" are also listed as break-out searches on Google. Searches for "cancel hulu" also soared, per Google Trends.
Boycotts may go beyond streamingThis isn't the first time Disney has faced backlash and boycott calls.Consumers on both sides of the aisle have tried to lead boycotts of the company, often to little lasting success.Some conservatives protested the company over its reaction to Florida's Parental Rights in Education Act, often referred to as the "Don't Say Gay" law. Disney CEO Bob Iger said in an interview at the time that the company hadn't seen any impact on park attendance. Pro-Palestinian groups made calls to boycott Disney after featuring Israeli actor Gal Gadot in "Snow White."
While Disney's stock is down around 2.4% since the market closed on Wednesday, the day ABC announced Kimmel's suspension, it's not clear yet if the boycott calls will have a material impact on the business.The boycott calls could extend beyond digital subscription cancellations and into Disney's physical offerings.A protest organized by the Writers Guild of America West drew hundreds of picketers outside of Disney Studios on Thursday, leading the company to eventually close its main studio gate.
Noble's annual pass to Disney World is up for renewal. She said she was already "on the fence" about renewing it, she said, and the Kimmel suspension made her decision not to renew an easy one. She said her husband, a fellow Disney fan, is also planning on letting his lapse when it's up in May.Instead, Noble said she and her family may visit Universal's parks, Six Flags, or Greece."We might just have to start doing more grown-up trips," Noble said.
Not all Disney fans are on the boycott train.Lucas Lozano of San Antonio, 32, said he loves Kimmel, but his affinity for Disney runs deeper. He believes the company is "playing it safe" to appease the FCC, though he expects the late-night host to eventually return from his suspension after making an apology.Either way, Lozano, who said he had his honeymoon at the Disney parks, won't fall out of love with Disney.
"Not really anything would change my fandom," Lozano said.Do you work for Disney or have a story to share? Contact the reporters from a non-work email and device at hchandonnet@businessinsider.com and jfaris@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
Media
Disney
DIsney parks
More
ABC
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account