Late-Night Hosts React to Jimmy Kimmel's Suspension - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Media
Late-night hosts reacted to Jimmy Kimmel's suspension with the sharpest tools in their kit: comedy and defiance
By
Aditi Bharade
,
Kwan Wei Kevin Tan
,
Sarah Gray
, and
Lauren Edmonds
Late-night hosts responded to Jimmy Kimmel's suspension.
Greg Allen/Invision/AP, AP Photo/Chris Pizzello, Jae C. Hong/Invision/AP
2025-09-19T18:00:27Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Late-night hosts did not mince words when talking about Jimmy Kimmel's show being suspended.
Stephen Colbert, Jon Stewart, Seth Meyers, and Jimmy Fallon talked on Thursday night about the move.
Disney suspended Kimmel's show "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" indefinitely.
Late-night hosts, past and present, have responded with satire and defiance after the suspension of one of their own, Jimmy Kimmel.On Thursday night, it was the who's who of late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert, whose own show was not renewed; NBC's Jimmy Fallon and Seth Meyers, who have both received threats from President Donald Trump; and the "Daily Show" host Jon Stewart, who has consistently defended his colleagues.
Kimmel's "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" was suspended indefinitely by Disney on Wednesday under pressure from Brendan Carr, the Trump-appointed chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, and a prominent company that owns ABC affiliate stations, Nexstar.Nexstar and another ABC affiliate owner, Sinclair, pulled Kimmel's show off the air "indefinitely." Sinclair said the suspension would remain "until formal discussions are held with ABC about the network's commitment to professionalism and accountability."The suspension came after Kimmel made comments about the killing of conservative activist Charlie Kirk and mocked Trump's response to the incident. Kimmel's suspension and the political uproar that followed have raised questions over speech freedom and the First Amendment.
Sinclair also called for Kimmel to apologize to Kirk's family.
Stephen Colbert
Stephen Colbert said Kimmel's suspension was an act against freedom of speech.
Scott Kowalchyk/CBS via Getty Images
Stephen Colbert, whose namesake late-night show is set to be pulled off the air in May, defended Kimmel during his opening monologue on Thursday night.He started the show saying, "Tonight, we are all Jimmy Kimmel," calling the suspension "blatant censorship.""The Late Show" posted a clip of Colbert's comments on Kimmel on its Instagram account. The post was captioned, "The Late Show stands with Jimmy Kimmel and his staff."In his monologue, Colbert referenced a report from Rolling Stone on Wednesday about Kimmel and ABC."As one source at ABC put it, they were pissing themselves all day. On the bright side, that proves Disney is No. 1 at streaming," Colbert said.Colbert then cited an X post that the FCC's Carr wrote on Wednesday. Carr said it was important for broadcasters to oppose "programming that they determine falls short of community values.""Well, you know what my community values are, buster? Freedom of speech," Colbert said on Thursday, to loud cheers from the audience."People across the country are shocked by this blatant assault on the freedom of speech," he added.The Jimmy Kimmel fallout is ramping up. Get caught up here:Here's what Jimmy Kimmel said about Charlie Kirk on his late-night show that got him pulled off the airThere's a $6.2 billion deal looming over Jimmy Kimmel's suspensionLate-night TV is under threat from Trump and a precarious business modelThese are the demands ABC-affiliate Sinclair is making to air Jimmy Kimmel againPeter Kafka: The Trump administration forcing Jimmy Kimmel off the air is bad. Very bad.Late-night hosts reacted to Jimmy Kimmel's suspension with the sharpest tools in their kit: comedy and defianceI went to a protest at Disney over Jimmy Kimmel's suspension. It wasn't just about one comedian.
Jimmy Fallon
Jimmy Fallon said that Kimmel is a "decent, funny, and loving guy" and that he hoped the show would return.
NBC/ Getty Images
Jimmy Fallon, the host of "The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon," said in a Thursday episode that he hoped Kimmel's show would make a comeback.He started off the segment with a joke: "Well, guys, the big story is that Jimmy Kimmel was suspended by ABC after pressure from the FCC, leaving everyone thinking 'WTF.'"Joking about how he and Kimmel share the same first name, Fallon said he woke up to 100 text messages from his father expressing sorrow that his show was canceled.But then he adopted a somber tone, saying, "But to be honest with you all, I don't know what's going on, and no one does.""But I do know Jimmy Kimmel, and he's a decent, funny, and loving guy. I hope he comes back," he said, to loud cheers and applause from the audience.
Jon Stewart
Jon Stewart leaned heavily into sarcasm and satire when talking about Kimmel's suspension.
The Daily Show
In a Thursday episode of "The Daily Show," the host Jon Stewart adopted a sarcastic and satirical tone while discussing Kimmel's suspension.While Stewart typically hosts the show on Mondays, the show announced on Thursday that he would host another episode that night."I don't know who this Johnny Drimmel Live ABC character is. But the point is, our great administration has laid out very clear rules on free speech," Stewart said in his opening monologue.He didn't directly defend Kimmel in the segment, but he made a series of pointed remarks about Trump, at one point calling the president our "dear leader.""We have another fun, hilarious, administration-compliant show," he said, and pretended to quiet the audience when they laughed.
Seth Meyers
Seth Meyers said Kimmel's suspension was a "big moment in our democracy."
Lloyd Bishop/NBC via Getty Images
In a Thursday night episode of his series "A Closer Look," Seth Meyers said Kimmel's suspension has become a "big moment in our democracy."Joking about the Trump administration's crackdown on free speech, Meyers said, "Completely unrelated, I just want to say before we get started here that I've always admired and respected Mr. Trump."He added that if the audience had ever seen him say anything negative about Trump, it was most likely an AI-generated deepfake video.He got serious later in the segment when he brought up Kimmel again."And may I just say, it is a privilege and an honor to call Jimmy Kimmel my friend, in the same way that it's a privilege and honor to do this show every night," he said."This is a big moment in our democracy, and we must all stand up for the principles of free expression," he said at the end of the segment. "There's a reason free speech is in the very first amendment; it stands above all others."
Conan O'Brien
Conan O'Brien on "The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien" in 2010.
NBC/NBCUniversal via Getty Images
Conan O'Brien criticized the suspension in an X post on Friday."The suspension of @jimmykimmel and the promise to silence other Late Night hosts for criticizing the administration should disturb everyone on the Right, Left, and Center," O'Brien wrote. "It's wrong and anyone with a conscience knows it's wrong."O'Brien previously hosted "Late Night with Conan O'Brien," "The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien," and "Conan."
Recommended video
Jimmy Fallon
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account