March 2026 is looking stacked for new video games already
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
A quiet slot for the release calendar has suddenly become stacked
It's official, March 2026 has too many new video games
By
Ari Notis
Published 10 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Insomniac's Wolverine resurfaces with ridiculously violent trailer, out 2026
1 day ago
0:38
How did Sydney Chandler learn to speak Xenomorph?
14 hours ago
0:29
Hamish Linklater needs Midnight Mass showrunner to pick up the phone
2 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Graphic: Polygon | Source images: IO Interactive, Pearl Abyss, Housemarque/Sony Interactive Entertainment
For a while there, March 2026 seemed like it'd be a slow period for gaming, a chance to clear out the backlog, or tool around with the new Bond game before Grand Theft Auto 6 sucks all the air out of the room. Now, it's looking like a pretty stacked month for new game releases. At first, it looked like 007 First Light, IO Interactive's stealth-action take on a James Bond origin story, had March 2026 all to itself. Then, at Sony's Sept. 24 State of Play livestream, PlayStation announced release dates for Housemarque's Saros and Pearl Abyss' Crimson Desert. Off the back of the show, here's a quick look at the major games already in store for March 2026:
Resident Evil Requiem, Feb. 27, 2026 (I'm counting this as a March 2026 game because let's be real, we'll still be playing it in March)
Monster Hunter Stories 3: Twisted Reflection, March 13, 2026
Crimson Desert, March 19, 2026
Saros, March 20, 2026
007 First Light, March 27, 2026
It's not just March, either. During the stream, PlayStation also announced a Feb. 5, 2026, release date for a remaster of the original Deus Ex, kicking off a single week in February 2026 that'll see the releases of Dragon Quest 7 Reimagined, Nioh 3, Mario Tennis Fever, Yakuza Kiwami 3, and High on Life 2. And we're still months away. More companies could lock down March 2026 release dates as we approach. During its Sept. 25 Tokyo Game Show broadcast, Xbox Game Studios revealed Forza Horizon 6, the next entry in its flagship racing series (and one that finally fulfills the fanbase's longtime wish of bringing the series to Japan). According to an Xbox Wire blog post, developer Playground Games plans on sharing more details in "early 2026." Don't look now, but are we in for a March 2026 shadow drop? Would you bet money against that? Historically, the busiest months for new game releases were in the October to November stretch, with publishers releasing new games to capitalize on holiday sales. Around 2020, a year marred by a global pandemic and marked by the start of a new console generation, things shifted. Coming out of COVID lockdowns, February 2022 shaped up to be one of the most stacked months of the year for AAA gaming: Horizon Forbidden West, Sifu, Dying Light 2: Stay Human, Destiny 2: The Witch Queen, and Elden Ring, all back-to-back. February 2023 saw a similar release cadence (Atomic Heart, Like a Dragon: Ishin!, Wild Hearts, Octopath Traveler 2, and Hogwarts Legacy). So did March 2024 (Rise of the Ronin, Dragon's Dogma 2, Princess Peach: Showtime!, Unicorn Overlord, and The Outlast Trials, all on the heels of Final Fantasy 7 Rebirth releasing on a leap day, so, y'know, March game). And February 2025 (Avowed, Kingdom Come: Deliverance 2, Monster Hunter Wilds, Civilization 7). And March 2025 too, for that matter (Split Fiction, Assassin's Creed Shadows, Fragpunk, Atomfall, The First Berserker: Khazan). So why is the February-March window now the most popular time to release new video games? It's in part due to the pandemic, which famously upended game development cycles, resulting in notable delays across the industry. When those development cycles returned to something resembling normalcy, and once-delayed games ended up getting back on track, they got back on track with a release cadence of, well, see above. There's also a more cynical factor at play: The fiscal years for many major video game companies — including Bandai Namco, Capcom, Nintendo, PlayStation, Square Enix, and Take Two Interactive, all of whom have published or will publish games mentioned in this article — wrap up at the end of March. Sales for a new game tend to spike most upon its release. Releasing those new video games as the fiscal year winds down helps paint a picture of rising revenue. And 2026 has another shadow looming over it: Grand Theft Auto 6, Rockstar's open-world giga-game. The gaming industry is bracing for it like it's the Chicxulub meteor. As Bloomberg reported, gaming companies upended their release plans to move out of the way of its planned fall 2025 release window. Following a delay, it's now out May 26, 2026. So let's hope it doesn't get un-delayed. Call it savvy business, call it a cruel twist of fate, but I think we all know what month it'd move to, and there's no more room.
Analysis
Gaming
Opinion
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
GMaster7
GMaster7
GMaster7
#KS710215
Member since 2022-07-06
33
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
The paragraph beginning "Historically..." is insane.
It's amazing how many terrific games have come out so quickly over the past few years, whether in this early-year window or otherwise.
I'm drowning!
It's a good problem to have.
2025-09-25 14:19:48
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
1 day ago
D&D icon R.A. Salvatore might be done writing Drizzt
1 day ago
I played an hour of Pokémon Legends: Z-A and am smitten with its chaotic battles
1 day ago
This Steam best seller is the coolest thing I've played in a long time
2 days ago
Why Alien: Earth's creator isn't worried about a season 2 renewal
More from our brands
All Major Nintendo Switch 2 Games Coming Out Soon
Every Major Video Game Release Coming Soon For Xbox Series X|S And Xbox One
Every Major Video Game Release Coming Soon For PC
Every Upcoming Video Game Remake And Remaster
Video Game Release Dates 2025
Every Major Video Game Release Coming Soon For PS5 And PS4
State of Play September 2025: Live updates and everything announced for PS5
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Crunchyroll's new manga app could revolutionize the market
Hades 2 overcomplicates a perfect formula
PSA: You have 1 week to claim these free shiny Legendary Pokémon in Scarlet and Violet
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.