Complaints | USAGov
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock (
Lock
Locked padlock icon
) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Home
Close
Search
1-844-USAGOV1
Complaints
Complaints against the government
Consumer product and service complaints
Bank, credit, and securities complaints
Housing complaints
Complaints about travel
State consumer protection offices
Español
Menu
Call us at 1-844-USAGOV1
Search
All topics and services
The U.S. and its government
Government benefits
Immigration and U.S. citizenship
Money and credit
Taxes
Travel
Home
Complaints
Complaints
Most popular
File a U.S. Postal Service complaint
File a complaint about phone scams and telemarketers
File a complaint about a company's products or services
File complaints involving government agencies, telemarketers, products and services, travel, housing, and banking.
Complaints against the government
Learn how to file a complaint against the U.S. Postal Service, government agencies, and prisons.
Complaints about consumer products and services
Learn how to file complaints about products, services, online purchases, and telemarketers.
Bank, credit, and securities complaints
Learn where to file a complaint about banking and investment products, retirement plans, and the companies and professionals that offer them.
Housing complaints
Find out how to file a complaint about a landlord, mortgage company, or housing discrimination.
Complaints about travel
If you have a complaint about travel by air, land, or sea, find out where to share your complaint to get the problem resolved.
State consumer protection offices
Find your state's consumer protection office for help with business complaints, scams, and more.
Looking for something else?
Explore all topics and services
SHARE THIS PAGE:
Top
Government information
All topics and services
Directory of U.S. government agencies and departments
Branches of government
About us
About USAGov
Privacy and security policies
Accessibility policy
Report a website issue
Website usage data
For federal agencies
Partner with us
Read our blog
For media
USAGov Outreach
Feature articles
USAGov Contact Center
Ask USA.gov a question at
1-844-USAGOV1 (1-844-872-4681)
USAGov is the official guide to government information and services
An official website of the U.S. General Services Administration
GSA accessibility support
GSA privacy policy
FOIA requests