Trump's DOJ sues Maine and Oregon over states' voter data : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Trump's DOJ sues Maine and Oregon over states' voter data The Department of Justice is escalating its demands for sensitive data from voting officials, suing two Democratic-controlled states who have thus far rebuffed the department's requests.
Elections
The Justice Department sues Maine and Oregon, ratcheting up demands for voter data
Updated September 17, 20254:34 PM ET
Originally published September 17, 20252:28 PM ET
Miles Parks
Harmeet Dhillon, head of the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division, speaks during a news conference on Aug. 7.
Jose Luis Magana/AP
hide caption
toggle caption
Jose Luis Magana/AP
The Department of Justice is escalating its demands for sensitive elections data from voting officials, announcing lawsuits against two Democratic-controlled states who have thus far rebuffed the department's requests. The DOJ is suing Oregon and Maine and those states' secretaries of state in an effort to gain access to each state's voter registration list, including personal information such as partial Social Security numbers. The department has asked for sensitive voting data from numerous states; Oregon and Maine are the first to be sued. "If the President wants to use the DOJ to go after his political opponents and undermine our elections, I look forward to seeing them in court," Oregon Secretary of State Tobias Read, a Democrat, said in a statement. "I stand by my oath to the people of Oregon, and I will protect their rights and privacy."
Sponsor Message
Elections
33 million voters have been run through a Trump administration citizenship check
In the lawsuits, the Justice Department says it hasn't been given complete answers or enough supporting evidence in the form of raw data to determine if the states are following federal law when it comes to maintaining accurate registration lists. "States simply cannot pick and choose which federal laws they will comply with," Harmeet Dhillon, head of the DOJ's Civil Rights Division, said in a statement when the lawsuits were announced Tuesday. "American citizens have a right to feel confident in the integrity of our electoral process, and the refusal of certain states to protect their citizens against vote dilution will result in legal consequences." Voter list maintenance is impossible to do perfectly in real time as thousands of Americans move and die every day, and since states have constitutional authority to oversee their own elections, courts have maintained a relatively low bar for what states need to do to satisfy the "reasonable" effort legally required to keep lists up-to-date. That standard has long frustrated election integrity hawks on the right who advocate for more transparency into list-cleaning procedures and more aggressive list purging. To back the need for more stringent list maintenance, many of those groups have pushed misleading information about widespread fraud in elections.
Sponsor Message
The head of the Justice Department's Voting Section, Maureen Riordan, previously worked for a conservative law firm that has sued numerous states alleging list-maintenance violations, and Dhillon has also pushed false election fraud claims.
Elections
Trump's DOJ makes its most sweeping demand for election data yet
Elections
DHS to states: Follow our voting rules or lose out on election security money
In an interview with NPR, Maine Secretary of State Shenna Bellows said the DOJ has never asked states for voter data like it is now. "This is not normal," Bellows, a Democrat who's also running for governor, said. "What DOJ is trying to do is deeply concerning from a constitutional perspective, a privacy perspective and a political perspective, given that they're only targeting Democratic secretaries of state." She also noted that "the federal government doesn't have a great track record with keeping sensitive personal information safe." Requests from the federal government for voter data have traditionally been a nonstarter for state officials: Then-Republican Secretary of State of Mississippi Delbert Hosemann famously said the first Trump administration could "go jump in the Gulf of Mexico" in response to similar asks in 2017 (and Bellows echoed that line earlier this year). Many election officials are concerned with what the current Trump administration plans to do with voter data. NPR reported last week that the Trump administration said it has run more than 33 million voter records through a citizenship verification tool at the Department of Homeland Security, while providing next to no information about the accuracy or security of the tool. In a meeting with voting officials this summer, DHS officials tried to assuage concerns that the tool was linked to the DOJ requests states were receiving. "We don't want your data. We don't want your lists," the DHS officials said, according to one attendee. But DHS indicated in recent statements to other news outlets that it is collaborating with the DOJ to share data. When asked explicitly whether the DOJ planned to run the voter rolls it gets from states through the tool, a Justice Department spokesperson who declined to be named only said the requests were legal and that data would be "screened for ineligible voter entries."
Sponsor Message
Other states have also declined the Justice Department's requests for data or indicated they may decline. It's unclear whether the DOJ plans to sue them as well.
voting stories
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor