AT&T's new AI receptionist will answer calls for you - and block spam | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Innovation
Home
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence
AT&T's new AI receptionist will answer calls for you - and block spam
Here's how it'll decide whether a call is legit.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 7:23 a.m. PT
Reviewed by
Elyse Betters Picaro
AT&TFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysAT&T's digital receptionist will use AI to screen your calls.The goal is to determine if a call is legitimate or spam.The feature will roll out this year as a test for select AT&T customers.How often do you receive a call from an unknown number and debate whether to answer it? Spam calls continue to plague us all, often making us hesitant to answer our phones unless we know who's calling. Now AT&T is turning to AI in an attempt to protect us from the spammers and scammers who tie up our phones.Also: I unlocked hidden menus on my iPhone and Android with 14 secret codesRolling out as a test to select customers throughout 2025, the new AT&T digital receptionist will act as an automated call screener. Instead of you trying to decide whether to answer, this assistant will pick up the call itself. Using voice-to-voice and agentic AI skills, the receptionist will then ask questions to determine if the caller is human or bot, if the call is urgent, and whether it meets criteria that you establish. How call screening worksHere's how such a scenario would play out, as described by AT&T Chief Data Officer Andy Markus in a Tuesday blog post. The digital receptionist will answer an incoming call on your behalf, posing such questions as "Who may I say is calling?" or "What is this in regard to?" If the caller checks the right boxes, then the call is passed through to you. If the call concerns something that the AI is equipped to handle itself, such as taking a message or accepting a delivery, it may be able to complete the conversation on its own. Also: How to clear your Android phone cache (and the hidden problem it actually fixes)OK, but what if the caller refuses to identify themselves, it's a wrong number, or the call doesn't meet your criteria? In those cases, the receptionist will either hang up or take a message. As the initial interaction plays out, you can view a live transcript of the conversation and opt to pick up the call at any point. You can also let the call finish, view a summary when it's over, and then decide if you want to return the call. Naturally, you don't want every call screened this way, especially ones from family, friends, and other contacts. For that, you're able to add people to a "Do Not Screen" list so that their calls are automatically put through without the AI screening. Test phaseFor now, the receptionist is decidedly in the test phase, which means that AT&T is still tweaking its capabilities and adding new features. But if all goes well, the carrier envisions even more AI-powered smarts down the road. Also: How to clear your iPhone cache (and why you should do it before updating to iOS 26)As one example posed by Markus, a future AI agent could automatically connect you to a restaurant to make reservations on your behalf. To kick this off, you would tell the AI the name of the restaurant and the date and time for the reservation. The agent would not only connect you but could even book the reservation on its own. Of course, we know that today's AI bots are far from perfect. They're prone to mistakes. They can confuse or misinterpret directions. They often fail to understand the context or meaning of our words. That's why this is a test, to see if and how an AI-based receptionist can be helpful without running into too many hiccups. AI concernsTo address concerns about such an AI, Markus also explained the technology behind it. For the receptionist, AT&T is using multiple large language models (LLMs) to process the incoming speech, create the responses, and then turn those responses into speech. Programmed with fraud prevention and spam-fighting algorithms, the receptionist is designed to look for patterns of spam or fraud, prompting it to end the call if such signs are detected. The company also promises that your private information stays secure and is used only to help the receptionist determine how to handle the call. Also: In 2 years, half of all service calls will be resolved by AI - surveySpam call filters and features are already available from AT&T and other carriers, as well as from OS and app developers. Some of those have also been tapping into AI. But even with such filters, the burden is often on you to figure out whether to answer a call. If successful, AT&T's digital receptionist could be a useful next step in automatically determining how each call is handled. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
7 useful iOS 26 AI features launching alongside iPhone 17 (and these older models)
4 ways machines will automate your business - and it's no hype, says Gartner
Microsoft Copilot is taking over Teams. Here's how AI will shape your daily workflow
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use