Best Medical Alert Systems in 2025 – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
Best of
3.0
Our ratings take into account the card’s rewards, fees, rates along with the card’s category. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.
Why we picked it
Read More
SCROLL TO SITE
SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
Medical Alert Systems
We Tested The Best Medical Alert Systems–Here’s Our Top 10
Published: Sep 18, 2025, 11:46am
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Written By
Christopher Groux
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on...
See Full Bio
Staff Editor
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for For...
See Full Bio
Fact Checked
|
Staff Editor
& 1 other
Published: Sep 18, 2025, 11:46am
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
Medical alert systems can provide lifesaving assistance in an emergency event, connecting users to dispatchers who can send for help.
To identify the best medical alert systems for 2025, the Forbes Health editorial team conducted extensive user testing and market analysis, evaluating 15 popular products. We considered factors like signal range, battery life, pricing, and user experience, including fall detection capabilities and emergency response times. Are medical alert systems worth the money? Do their fall detection features actually work? The Forbes Health team ran the tests and crunched the stats—and bruised a few ribs—to bring you the 10 best medical alert devices of the year.
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about medical alert systems that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our medical alert systems methodology for the rankings below.
15 medical alert systems evaluated and tested across 13 brands
44 metrics analyzed
78 real falls conducted during testing
Note: Testing results are based on in-house testing of individual products. User results may vary.
Show More
Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Necklaces
Best Medical Alert Bracelets
Best Medical Alert Watches
Best Alternatives To Life Alert
Medical Guardian Medical Alert Review
Bay Alarm Medical Alert Review
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
Best Medical Alert Systems Of 2025: Tested And Expert Reviewed
Medical Guardian MGMini
LifeStation Sidekick Mobile
Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection
LifeFone At-Home Cellular With Fall Detection
Medical Guardian MGHome Cellular
Apple Watch Series 10
Amazon Alexa Emergency Assist
MobileHelp Micro
GetSafe Starter With Fall
Samsung Galaxy Watch7
Methodology: How We Picked The Best Medical Alert Systems of 2025
Why We Don't Recommend Life Alert Systems
How Do Medical Alert Systems Work?
Types of Medical Alert Systems
Key Features of Medical Alert Systems
How Much Do Medical Alert Systems Cost?
Does Insurance Cover Medical Alert Systems?
How to Choose the Best Medical Alert System for You
Compare the Best Medical Alert Systems of 2025
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Bay Alarm Medical SOS Mobile Alert SystemsStay connected and safe with Bay Alarm Medical's suite of SOS Mobile medical alert systems: help button, two-way speaker, GPS trackingActivate help easily with included wearable button for neck or wristPowered by 4G LTE for better coverage, faster responseCaregiver Tracking: real-time location, history, low battery alertsLong battery life, water-resistant design.	Learn More	On Bay Alarm's Website
Best Medical Alert Systems Of 2025: Tested And Expert Reviewed
Best Medical Alert System for Versatility	Medical Guardian MGMini
5.0
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: $149.95 Service fees: Starts at $39.95 per monthConnectivity: Uses cellular signal, Wi-Fi and GPSFall detection: Available for an additional $10 per monthUse case: In-home and mobileBattery life: Up to five days (120 hours)Maximum in-home coverage range: N/AResponse time: 50 seconds, according to in-house product testing	Learn More	On Medical Guardian's Website Why We Chose Medical Guardian MGMiniMedical Guardian’s MGMini offers a modern, streamlined medical alert solution. The defining feature of the MGMini is the ability to wear it in a variety of ways. Not only is this discreet device available in four different colors, but it also comes with a belt clip and lanyard, giving wearers opportunities to stay protected across a wide range of scenarios both inside and outside of the home. In fact, you can even wear the Mini in the shower thanks to its water resistance.Read our full Medical Guardian MGMini review to learn more.Our Experience Testing Medical Guardian MGMiniWhile trying out the MGMini for its base usability, our Forbes Health testers liked many of the device’s features. It has a few helpful accessibility perks, such as its magnetic breakaway lanyard and an audible charging confirmation when the pendant is placed on its charging cradle (included in equipment purchase). The large emergency button is placed front and center for usability, though we wished the information button on the side of the device was slightly more visible.We were also disappointed with the MGMini fall detection feature, as it didn’t detect any genuine falls during our testing process. Meanwhile, the device detected false positives when dropped and while plopping down onto a chair. Its build quality and base functionality are great, but our product testers don’t advise relying on the fall detection.	Pros & ConsSimple design makes accidental call button presses unlikelyPendant available in four different colorsIncluded accessories allow you to wear the pendant in a variety of waysAudible pendant charging indicator is helpful in terms of accessibilityFall detection system failed to detect genuine falls and detected false positives in our testing processButton sequence to regularly test the device may be difficult with limited dexterityReliance on virtual portal for advanced features, such as managing reminders and emergency contacts, may be confusing for some
Best Mobile Medical Alert System	LifeStation Sidekick Mobile
4.8
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: Equipment is free ($99.95 activation fee) Service fees: $55.95 per month with fall detectionConnectivity: Uses cellular signal, Wi-Fi and GPSFall detection: Included in Supreme package (this is the only package available with fall detection)Use case: In-home and mobileBattery life: Up to five daysMaximum in-home coverage range: N/AResponse time: 49 seconds, according to in-house product testing	Learn More	On Lifestation's Website Why We Chose LifeStation Sidekick MobileLifeStation has been offering personal security solutions since 1977. The brand’s Sidekick Mobile, however, is a modern device, with nearly every key accoutrement a user looking for a mobile medical alert may want. It connects through Wi-Fi and LTE and includes GPS features to help locate the pendant and wearer if necessary. This may be a more budget-friendly but comparable alternative to the Medical Guardian MGMini.Read our full LifeStation Medical Alert System review to learn more.Our Experience Testing LifeStation Sidekick MobileForbes Health product testers found the LifeStation Sidekick Mobile easy to set up and use, with simplicity an apparent guiding principle in its design. Just place the pendant on its cradle to charge, and the unit announces when it’s ready with an audible alert. One of the most underrated elements of this product is its color-contrasting design, which may help those with vision impairment easily differentiate between surfaces and buttons. Many medical alert systems have small buttons positioned flush on the side of the device, potentially making them difficult to see.That said, the fall detection feature may not be worth the price, as the product seemed far more prone to triggering false positives than actual falls, according to our testing.	Pros & ConsContrasting colors on small “test” and “silent” buttons may enhance usabilityGPS helps locate usersWater resistance for use in wet environmentsFailed to detect genuine falls and is prone to triggering when dropped, according to our testing resultsMonthly fee is expensive on top of activation feeBlinking light system may be difficult to troubleshoot
Best Rugged Medical Alert Device	Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection
4.2
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: $149 Service fees: Starts at $34.95 per monthConnectivity: Uses cellular signal, Wi-Fi and GPSFall detection: Available for an additional $10 per monthUse case: In-home and mobileBattery life: Up to 3 daysMaximum in-home coverage range: 600 feetResponse time: 31 seconds, according to in-house product testing	Learn More	On Bay Alarm Medical's Website Why We Chose Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall DetectionBay Alarm Medical has a history that stretches back nearly 80 years, establishing itself as a trusted name in the health care industry, illustrated by the company’s A+ Better Business Bureau rating and 4.8-star Trustpilot rating.This device is sturdily built, great for those looking for a system that can withstand rugged use. It features all the best amenities in connectivity, water resistance, battery life and more. And while its initial equipment cost may be steep, the monthly commitment is less expensive compared to some competing products on this ranking.Read our full Bay Alarm Medical  SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection review to learn more.Our Experience Testing Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall DetectionIn testing the SOS All-In-One 2, our Forbes Health testers found a lot to love. The super-rugged stylings of its large base pendant may not be the most discreet choice on the market, but it does appear built to last. Plus, those who prefer to wear something a little less bulky have the option to don a lighter-weight wearable button as a pendant or bracelet instead (included with the fall detection package).In our testing, the added fall detection functioned well when sliding to the ground from a chair, but it didn’t react to falls from a standing position. We also had to fully reboot the device once during testing due to an apparent connectivity issue. Potential buyers of this device may want to ensure their AT&T cellular coverage is exceptionally strong before purchasing. It’s also worth noting that users will have to memorize the meaning of green, red and blue status lights to troubleshoot the device.	Pros & ConsOn-the-go GPS tracking helps caregivers find the wearer, if necessaryRugged design features water resistance up to 1 meterFall detection performed well in testing for seated slipsAdditional battery-powered pendant included in the fall detection packageSome users may prefer a more discreet designConnection issues experienced during testingDid not detect any standing-position falls during testing
Best Home Medical Alert Device	LifeFone At-Home Cellular With Fall Detection
4.1
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: None Service fees: Starts at $30.95 per monthConnectivity: Uses cellular signalFall detection: Available for additional $5 per monthUse case: In-homeBattery life: Base station features a 32-hour backup battery (pendant battery lasts up to three years)Maximum in-home coverage range: 1,300 feetResponse time: 2 minutes and 15 seconds, according to in-house product testing 	Learn More	On LifeFone's Website Why We Chose LifeFone At-Home Cellular With Fall DetectionLifeFone has been a trusted name in the medical alert system market for over 40 years, dedicating itself to providing individuals access to care in the event of an emergency. With no equipment fee and just a $5 monthly subscription cost for fall detection, plus a generous range of 1,300 feet, this may be a solid option for people looking for an affordable, at-home personal safety device. However, during testing, the response time was extremely prolonged, which should be considered prior to purchase.Read our full LifeFone At-Home Cellular With Fall Detection review to learn more.Our Experience Testing LifeFone At-Home Cellular With Fall DetectionFrom a usability perspective, the LifeFone At-Home Cellular base unit immediately impressed Forbes Health testers with its heavy-duty design and large emergency button that features a nice color contrast for users with low vision. The included pendant also offers some nice accessibility perks, such as a magnetic breakaway lanyard that may be easy for most users to attach and detach, even in the case of limited dexterity.We found the fall detection feature to function well compared to some other devices. Standing-position falls were detected 33% of the time, though it did require about 30 seconds of immobility to trigger a response. While this may be intended to reduce false positives, an alert may not be triggered unless a fall completely incapacitates the wearer. The pendant failed to detect seated falls, so those who use a wheelchair or mobility scooter may not want to rely on the LifeFone At-Home Cellular’s fall detection specifically.	Pros & ConsNo equipment feesSimple designComparatively high coverage range for an in-home systemFeatures nearly instant setupFall detection required stillness for about 30 seconds after fallsCall quality seemed to vary greatly by agent, according to our testing experienceAdditional buttons must be purchased as accessories
Best Medical Alert System For Large Homes	Medical Guardian MGHome Cellular
4.0
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: $149.95Service fees: Starts at $38.95 per monthConnectivity: Uses cellular signal, Wi-FiFall detection: Available for additional $10 per monthUse case: In-homeBattery life: Base station 32-hour backup battery (pendant battery lasts up to five years)Maximum in-home coverage range: 1,400 feetResponse time: 32 seconds, according to in-house product testers	Learn More	On Medical Guardian's Website Why We Chose Medical Guardian MGHome CellularIn addition to testing Medical Guardian’s MGMini device, Forbes Health testers also reviewed the base-centric MGHome Cellular unit. Compared to the MGMini, this home-based system may work better for users who are stationary much of the time. Plus, the unit’s expansive range of 1,400 feet makes this product suitable even for users living in larger spaces.Read our full Medical Guardian MGHome Cellular review to learn more.Our Experience Testing Medical Guardian MGHome CellularGenerally speaking, the MGHome has the same strong industrial design offered by many of the at-home devices Forbes Health tested. It has the added benefit of raised Braille on its emergency button, which is a relatively uncommon feature among similar devices. A light surrounds the emergency button to help it stand out.Medical Guardian MGHome Cellular features somewhat effective fall detection, according to our product testing. Though the device was prone to false positives when dropped, it detected standing-position falls with a success rate of 33%. The device didn’t detect seated falls, however.During testing, the base station failed to connect to a call at one point, which required a full reset of the unit, and an agent followed up to confirm our tester’s safety once the device was operational.	Pros & ConsIncluded pendant can be worn as a lanyard or wrist strapWater resistance enhances wearer’s security in the showerFeatures the farthest range for an in-home system in this rankingSimple pendant pairing to baseTwo-way communication not available through pendantUnit had to be reset due to bugs during our testingThree-month minimum contract required
Best Medical Alert Device With No Monthly Fee	Apple Watch Series 10
4.0
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: Starting at $499 Service fees: NoneConnectivity: Cellular signal, Wi-Fi and GPSFall detection: IncludedUse case: In-home and mobileBattery life: 36 hoursMaximum in-home coverage range: N/AResponse time: N/A	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Chose Apple Watch Series 10Apple has hung its hat on leveraging the Apple Watch as a personal safety device for years, with the added benefit of not charging users a monthly fee for medical alert features. As far back as 2018, the iPhone maker has been advertising the fall detection features of its companion watch. Being such a popular wearable product that many already have access to, we were equally impressed that it doesn’t charge a monthly fee for its medical alert features, including initiating an emergency call and reaching out to emergency contacts.Read our full Apple Watch Series 10 review to learn more.Our Experience Testing Apple Watch Series 10The Apple Watch Series 10 functions well as a companion device to the iPhone. It’s sleek, has a long-lasting battery life and is water resistant, making it a great product for active individuals with an interest in Apple’s ecosystem. For those who don’t need to rely on fall detection, an Apple Watch can initiate an emergency call and reach out to emergency contacts. Just know that these actions must be performed manually and require dexterity.In spite of being an Apple Watch feature for more than five years, its potential use case as an automatic medical alert device is disappointing, according to Forbes Health product testers. In past experience, one tester reported having personally witnessed the Apple Watch falsely detect a fall when their father jumped down from a tall height. However, the fall detection feature failed to initialize at all during Forbes Health testing for false positives, standing-position falls or seated falls. In our testing experience, the fall detection feature of the Apple Watch Series 10 shouldn’t be relied upon with certainty.	Pros & ConsWi-Fi and cellular connections ensure functionality at home and on the goStores emergency contacts to function within a local support networkPress to dial 911 is easily achieved but difficult to accidentally triggerStep tracking, heart rate and respiratory rate can also be monitoredRequires iPhone and familiarity with Apple iOS platformsFall detection did not prove effective during our testingDoesn’t feature dedicated operators for emergency relief
Best Voice-Activated Medical Alert Device	Amazon Alexa Emergency Assist
3.8
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: Starts at $39.99 Service fees: $5.99 per month for Amazon Prime members ($59 annually) Connectivity: Wi-Fi Fall detection: NoneUse case: In-homeBattery life: N/AMaximum in-home coverage range: Variable Response time: 6 seconds, according to in-house product testing
Why We Chose Amazon Alexa Emergency AssistAmazon Echo, and the larger Alexa brand, are among the most recognizable names on the smart speaker market. Like the aforementioned Apple Watch, there’s a high probability one might already have an Alexa device at home. That said, many people don’t know that, for as little as $59 per year, your tiny speaker can offer some basic home security features, including Alexa Emergency Assist. Particularly for those with mobility or dexterity concerns, accessing assistance by voice is a viable alternative to wearing a pendant or watch. Our Experience Testing Amazon Alexa Emergency AssistWhile it doesn’t feature fall detection, a base station or a wearable lanyard, Alexa Emergency Assist proved to be an effective way to receive assistance. Initial setup of any Alexa device requires familiarity with smartphone apps, but those who already have one in the house can subscribe in less than 30 seconds by saying, “Alexa, subscribe to Emergency Assist” and then following a few confirmation prompts.Once subscribed, users can contact Urgent Response agents by saying “Alexa, call for help.” The subscription also offers auto-detection features for smoke or carbon monoxide alarms and breaking glass in the event voice commands aren’t possible. Additionally, users can store up to 25 emergency contacts to contact for less severe emergencies. In our testing, all of these features worked well, and an Echo Dot proved effective in hearing commands throughout a 1,020-square-foot testing space, even with a door closed. Sound detection features worked well, prompting users with a smartphone alert and an option to call Urgent Response, if necessary.Alexa Emergency Assist isn’t a perfect solution as a medical alert device, but it may function effectively inside the home if voice activation is possible. Considering its affordable price, it may be adequate for semi-independent individuals who don’t have difficulty with speech. 	Pros & ConsCost-effective subscriptionComparatively low equipment costVoice commands work quickly and easilyFunctions with devices and subscriptions individuals may already haveRequires familiarity with smartphones and appsCommands must be memorized for features to workDoesn’t function without power or a Wi-Fi connection
Best Medical Alert System With Fall Detection	MobileHelp Micro
3.4
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: None Service fees: Starts at $34.95 per monthConnectivity: Uses cellular signal and GPSFall detection: Available for additional $5.50 per monthUse case: In-home and mobileBattery life: Up to five daysMaximum in-home coverage range: N/AResponse time: 22 seconds, according to in-house product testing	Learn More	On MobileHelp's Website Why We Chose MobileHelp MicroMobileHelp has been in the medical alert business for nearly two decades, and MobileHelp Micro is the smallest and lightest member of the MobileHelp catalog. What’s more, this device proved to be the top performer when it came to fall detection during in-house testing. It’s a discreet, self-contained pendant with a battery that can last as long as five days. Meanwhile, it’s a budget-friendly option compared to other devices on this ranking, as it doesn’t charge an equipment fee and monthly service fees start at $34.95, including fall detection.Read our full MobileHelp Medical Alert System review to learn more.Our Experience Testing MobileHelp MicroForbes Health testers found that the MobileHelp Micro exudes plug-and-play simplicity in both setup and everyday use. The design is sleek and simple, though its test and power buttons could use some color differentiation to ensure they aren’t pressed accidentally. We also found it somewhat easy to accidentally cover the device’s speaker, which made incoming calls impossible to hear.If you want a device with reliable fall detection, the MobileHelp Micro may be ideal: It was the only medical alert device in our testing to get a 100% effective score across three standing-position falls and three seated falls. Of note, however, the device was prone to false positives for falls when dropped or plopping down into a chair.	Pros & ConsFeatures effective fall detection, almost too effectiveSetup is fast and easyAffordable compared to similar devicesGPS and water resistance modernize the deviceTest and power buttons are small and difficult to discernUsers should expect false positives with fall detectionPendant speaker is easy to accidentally cover
Best System With Rip Cord Activation	GetSafe Starter With Fall Detection
3.3
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: $79Service fees: Starts at $29.95 per monthConnectivity: Uses cellular signalFall detection: Available for additional $10 per monthUse case: In-home and mobileBattery life: Base station has a 32-hour backup battery (pendant battery lasts up to five years)Maximum in-home coverage range: 800 feetResponse time: 49 seconds, according to in-house product testing	Shop Now	On GetSafe's Website Why We Chose GetSafe Starter With Fall DetectionGetSafe is owned by Bay Alarm Medical, but its product offering differs substantially. While many of the products we’ve featured thus far focus on wearable pendants, GetSafe puts those options to the side unless you require fall detection or purchase an accessory. Instead, GetSafe Starter includes a base station plus an additional mountable base station that features a large emergency button and a rip cord for times when hitting the button isn’t possible, making it a solid option for those looking for a non-traditional unit.Read our full GetSafe Starter With Fall Detection review to learn more.Our Experience Testing GetSafe Starter With Fall DetectionIn testing, the core features of the GetSafe Starter, such as call response and effectiveness of buttons, were adequate. Accessing the main unit’s backup battery and threading the rip cord through the secondary unit requires some dexterity, but everything functions as planned with fast response times from emergency response agents. Forbes Health product testers appreciated the tactile Braille characters on the emergency and reset buttons on the base station.The fall detection feature of the wearable help button, however, didn’t detect any false positives or genuine falls during testing. While manually pressing the wearable button prompted a call to emergency response operators, no falls were automatically detected.	Pros & ConsBraille characters on base unit buttons may be useful to someFeatures one of the least expensive monthly rates for live monitoringWall button with pull cord offers additional options for emergency responsePairing the wearable with the base station was simpleBase station range may not be appropriate for larger homesNo wearable included in entry-level setSome dexterity may be required to set up accessories
Best Android Medical Alert Watch	Samsung Galaxy Watch7
3.2
Our ratings take into account price, range of use, connectivity options, wearability, automatic fall detection services and other attributes. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Equipment fee: $349.99 (40 millimeter), $329.99 (44 millimeter) Service fees: NoneConnectivity: Uses cellular signal, Wi-Fi and GPS (version without cellular also available)Fall detection: Included Use case: In-home and mobileBattery life: Up to 24 hoursMaximum-home coverage range: N/AResponse time: N/A	Shop Now	On Amazon Why We Chose Samsung Galaxy Watch7The Samsung Galaxy Watch7 is a product with potential to work well across the wide array of Android devices. It features GPS tracking, water resistance and other safety and health-tracking elements. While one safety feature includes fall detection, the watch didn’t recognize any genuine falls or false positives for falls during our testing.Our Experience Testing Samsung Galaxy Watch7Forbes Health testers found similarities between the Samsung Galaxy Watch7 and Apple Watch Series 10, with the former being the preferred option for Google users and the latter better for Apple users. The Galaxy Watch7 offers many tracking features for folks leading active lives, including water resistance.That said, the fall detection feature on the Samsung Galaxy Watch7 should not be trusted with any degree of certainty. In our testing, the device failed to pick up any false positive or intentional fall triggers. The watch can send SOS alerts if the user presses the Home button five times in rapid succession, and it can even reach out to programmed emergency contacts. As long as you have the dexterity to trigger or cancel an alert, this watch may still be a suitable alert device if fall detection isn’t required. 	Pros & ConsNo subscription requiredCan be used to track workouts, sleep and other advanced fitness featuresFalse positive fall detection is lowEmergency status can be customized to alert 911 or an emergency contactFall detection could not be triggered during testingRequires Android smartphone and familiarity with Android systemsManual emergency activation requires multiple presses
Methodology: How We Picked The Best Medical Alert Systems of 2025
To determine the best medical alert systems of 2025, the Forbes Health editorial team evaluated 15 products from 13 noteworthy brands, with each product’s star rating determined by evaluating a variety of metrics, including its range of use, battery life, ability to detect falls automatically and cost. Medical alert systems for home use and mobile-friendly medical alert systems were evaluated slightly differently based on their distinct use cases.
Each featured medical alert device also underwent internal testing for usability, ease of setup, emergency response speed and fall detection capability. Fall detection pendants’ tendency to detect false positives was evaluated through drops onto a hard floor and by testers plopping down with force onto a chair when worn.
Genuine fall detection was measured through intentional falls onto an exercise mat. Seated slips from a chair were also performed to simulate falls from a wheelchair or mobility scooter. The results of these tests are factored into the methodology detailed below.
Cost (including equipment cost, subscription fees, activation and free trials): 27.5%
Staff testing score (ease of setup, emergency response time, fall detection false positives, standing fall detection, seated fall detection): 20%
Features (fall detection, GPS and voice activation): 15%
User survey data (overall score, ease of setup, ease of use, fall detection reliability, cost transparency, customer service, emergency response quality): 10%
Signal range: 5%
Battery life: 5%
Extras (extra buttons and lockboxes): 5%
Multilingual support: 5%
Additional monitoring of steps and heart rate: 5%
Number of devices available: 2.5%
Read more about our medical alert systems review methodology.
Why We Don't Recommend Life Alert Systems
Life Alert is one of the most widely recognized manufacturers of medical alert systems, thanks to the iconic “Help! I’ve fallen and I can’t get up!” television commercials. However, there are several reasons this brand didn’t make our list.
Product information on its website is scarce. You must call the company directly to receive a free brochure and navigate the purchasing process. By speaking to two sales representatives, we learned Life Alert locks users into a three-year contract, has startup costs that can reach as high as $300, has one of the highest monthly subscription costs and doesn’t offer automatic fall detection in any capacity.
One sales representative also misrepresented facts, suggesting Life Alert had invented fall detection technology and that its devices were “endorsed by the American Heart and National Stroke Association.” When asked to confirm this information, representatives from the American Heart Association told Forbes Health “The American Heart Association does not endorse any companies, products or services. We strictly prohibit any implication of endorsement, recommendation or superiority of one entity over another.”
In contrast, every medical alert system manufacturer considered for our rankings was clear and upfront with product and subscription details online, making it easy for prospective users to conduct thorough research and make an informed purchasing decision.
Safety Simplified, Always Connected
Experience unmatched peace of mind with Bay Alarm's SOS All-In-One device, offering built-in help features, caregiver tracking, and customizable options for personalized safety.
Learn More
On Bay Alarm's Website
How Do Medical Alert Systems Work?
A medical alert system, also known as a personal emergency response system (PERS) or a medical emergency response system, enables a person to connect to medical help quickly in the event of a health emergency. Most systems include a transmitter device, an emergency call center and a console that uses landline telephones, cellular networks and/or GPS to connect the transmitter with the monitoring center.
Transmitter devices are used by the person in need of medical assistance and are often wearable pendants, necklaces, bracelets or smartwatches that feature an easily accessible emergency button and a speaker for quick connection to a trained medical response operator.
If you have a medical concern or emergency, press the help button on your medical alert system. The device sends a signal to your medical alert operator, connecting you with an emergency response expert at the call center. Often, the operator will connect you with the family member, caregiver or friend listed in your contact information, notifying them that you need help. In an emergency, they help dispatch an ambulance, the police or the local fire department to your home.
“Medical alert systems offer a critical lifeline, providing safety and reassurance for older adults and their loved ones by ensuring immediate access to help in emergencies,” says Jason Garbarino, a registered nurse and Forbes Health Advisory Board member. “These systems empower individuals with functional mobility concerns to remain active and age in place with confidence.”
Who Is a Medical Alert System For?
Medical alert systems are most often used by individuals who have an increased risk of falling. Older adults are the largest population of medical alert system users, especially those living alone. Over 30% of people over the age of 65 fall each year, and nearly half of this group experiences recurrent falls.
While a medical alert system cannot prevent a fall or subsequent injury, it can help the person access emergency services for much quicker assistance. In addition to a manual emergency button, many systems offer automatic fall detection, sensing when the user falls and notifying emergency services shortly thereafter.
Falls aside, medical alert systems can support safe aging in place with features like medication reminders, activity monitoring that checks in on the user every 12 hours or so and live assistance for when the user experiences any other pressing medical concerns.
Types of Medical Alert Systems
In-Home Medical Alert Systems
In-home medical alert systems typically feature two components:
A stationary base device that contains a speaker and microphone that connects the user to the company’s call center. These devices use either a landline connection or a cellular connection.
A wearable element, such as a pendant or bracelet, with a button the user can press to activate the base device in the event of an emergency. The button’s range of use, meaning the maximum distance it can be from the base device to still activate a call when pressed, varies significantly from product to product.
Mobile Medical Alert Systems
Mobile medical alert systems use cellular service and GPS technology to help the user connect with the call center both inside and outside. Most of these units are all-in-one devices of varying sizes and efficiency. Typically, the more compact the device or the more features it offers, the shorter its battery life, making frequent charging important.
Key Features of Medical Alert Systems
Activity Monitoring
Similar to automatic fall detection, this feature tracks the user’s movement. It notifies family members and friends if their loved one hasn’t shown signs of movement for an extended period.
Medication Reminders
Some medical alert systems offer medication reminders. These scheduled notifications can help keep aging adults compliant with the care plan prescribed by their health care professionals.
According to a recent Forbes Health survey of 2,000 U.S. adults conducted by OnePoll, respondents value many of the features offered by modern-day medical alert system providers. However, three in particular stand out among the rest: features like activity monitoring and medication reminders (49%), GPS or cellular connectivity for 24/7 assistance (44%) and extras like voice-activated wall buttons and lock boxes (43%).
Live 24/7 Monitoring
To get the most protective value from a medical alert system, opt for one that offers live 24/7 monitoring. That way, no matter when you have a medical concern and press your emergency button for help, you’ll always be connected with a live emergency response agent.
Automatic Fall Detection
Typically for an additional monthly fee, medical alert systems offer automatic fall detection. As its name suggests, this feature automatically notifies the call center when your wearable device senses—using technology like accelerometers and processors—that you had a fall and don’t move for a period of time after the fall. It’s designed to help in the event of a serious fall that renders the user unconscious, unable to press their help button manually or unable to communicate verbally with the emergency response expert at the call monitoring center.
Wall Buttons
Many medical alert systems allow you to purchase additional wall buttons for the higher-risk areas of your home, such as the bathroom, kitchen and stairwells. Just like a wearable pendant, when pressed they send a signal to the base station, which communicates with the call center. Wall buttons are useful for people who forget to wear or dislike wearing their devices.
Lockboxes
Some medical alert system makers encourage you to add a lockbox to your device purchase. It’s intended to hold an extra key for emergency responders so they don’t have to break down a locked door to come assist in an emergency event. The location and access of your lockbox is often noted in your profile with the medical alert system, so the call center employee can share those details with emergency responders when necessary.
Water-Resistant Wearables
If you want to be able to keep the wearable component of your medical alert system on your person or nearby while bathing or showering, it’s important for the device to hold up well to water and humidity.
GPS Tracking
Medical alert systems that offer live location tracking via GPS may be helpful for active seniors and those with memory loss. These systems are meant to alert family members directly and quickly of their loved one’s locations.
Cellular Connection
While there are many medical alert systems that still operate exclusively through landline connections inside the home, it’s no secret that landline use has decreased in recent years. Plus, landline systems only provide protection within the range of the connected base station.
Because cellular connections operate across much of the world, anyone wearing a medical alert device with a cellular connection has access to their security network from anywhere most cell phones function. Cellular connectivity is especially helpful for mobile medical alerts that have two-way communication because users can quickly speak to dedicated emergency response operators while on the go. That said, as pervasive as cellular connectivity may be, the technology may perform less well in remote or rural areas.
In-Home Range
When using an in-home medical alert device with a base station, cellular or landline alike, usability range comes into play. Home-based medical alert systems typically have an operational range between 800 to 1,400 feet away from their respective base stations.
As such, buyers working under these constraints should think about the size of their living space as well as where the base station will be placed. Those living in larger houses may want to prioritize range for maximum security.
Discreet Wearable Devices
While many bulky medical alert devices still exist, designs have evolved to be quite discreet. After all, this list includes two sleek-looking smart watches capable of blending in with any outfit in any scenario. On the other hand, the MGMini is a small pendant that can be worn around the neck or clipped to a pocket or purse. In modern times, it’s possible to stay secure without calling attention to balance concerns.
Water Resistance
For people who may be unsteady on their feet, the bathroom can be a dangerous place. That’s why it’s especially helpful that some medical alert pendants and watches have varying degrees of water resistance so they can be used while the wearer is in the shower. For example, the Apple Watch featured on this list can withstand depths up to 130 feet. That’s plenty of wiggle room to keep just about any casual wearer protected while near water.
How Much Do Medical Alert Systems Cost?
Monitoring services for a medical alert system can cost as low as $14.95 per month and as much as $61.95 per month. These prices don’t necessarily include the initial cost of the equipment itself—some medical alert companies charge a one-time upfront fee for the system devices.
In addition to upfront device fees, some medical alert system providers charge a one-time connection or installation fee required at the time of setup, and these fees can vary significantly.
Add-on features typically come with additional charges, too. Automatic fall detection often increases a monthly bill by $10, and additional wall buttons and lockboxes can come with small add-on fees as well. If a caregiver app is available as part of the system, it may be free, though some cost a small amount to download to your smartphone.
The lower end of the price spectrum typically includes the most basic medical alert system equipment and connectivity. Meanwhile, the more you spend, the more features and functionality you get, such as automatic fall detection, live location tracking, caregiver app access and more.
Unfortunately, some medical alert system providers have less-than-transparent pricing structures. For instance, they may not lock in a subscription price when you sign up, ultimately raising rates without notice after a year of service. Others might not clearly disclose connection or activation fees until you reach the final steps of purchasing a system and enrolling in a monitoring subscription service.
How To Save Money on Medical Alert Systems
If you’re concerned about the total cost of a medical alert system, consider how much you’d spend on a system when you pay annually for the monitoring service versus paying monthly.
Depending on the medical alert system you choose, the company may offer an annual subscription with a price that averages less monthly than a standard monthly subscription cost. You have to be comfortable paying the full amount up front, but the discount can be significant in the long term.
Other ways to save money on medical alert systems include:
Use Flexible Spending Accounts (FSA) and Health Savings Accounts (HSA) to pay for qualified medical expenses, including many medical alert systems, utilizing pre-tax dollars for savings.
Look for discounts on monthly fees from medical alert service providers by choosing to pay quarterly or annually.
Take advantage of sales and promotions, particularly during holidays such as Memorial Day and Christmas, for lower monthly rates and reduced equipment fees.
Connect with your local Area Agency on Aging (AAA) for resources that help older adults maintain independence at home and in the community; find your nearest office using the Eldercare Locator tool.
Does Insurance Cover Medical Alert Systems?
Only a select few private insurance providers pay for medical alert systems. But in some cases, the devices can be considered tax deductible if they’re deemed “medically necessary equipment” and prescribed by a doctor.
Does Medicare Cover Medical Alert Systems?
Typically, traditional Medicare (Medicare Part B) doesn’t cover the purchasing or monthly subscription costs of medical alert systems because they are not usually deemed “medically necessary” durable medical equipment (DME).
Meanwhile, some Medicare Advantage plans (Medicare Part C), which are offered through private insurance companies, may provide partial or full coverage of medical alert systems. If you’re insured by a Medicare Advantage plan, ask your provider about their coverage policies regarding medical alert systems.
How to Choose the Best Medical Alert System for You
The right medical alert system depends on you or your loved one’s activity levels and preferences. “I recommend sitting down and making a list of what is important to you,” says Cheryl Phillips, M.D., senior program consultant at the elder care-focused John A. Hartford Foundation and a Forbes Health Advisory Board member.
Here are some features Dr. Phillips includes on her list of most important considerations:
Water resistance. Do you need to use your alert in the shower or around moisture?
Battery life. Do you want something rechargeable, or do you prefer an internal battery that won’t need to be charged or replaced for several years?
Range. Is your residence large or small? Those who live in larger homes should prioritize a range of 1,000 feet or more.
Mobile or GPS capabilities. Many mobile medical alert systems include GPS features. This can help owners locate the device if it’s lost, or it can help caregivers locate any individual wearing the device.
Communication. Do you want the wearer to be able to communicate with emergency staff through a pendant, or are they able to walk to a base station to speak into it?
Medication reminders. Does the user have a complex medication routine? In this case, it may help to seek a product that can store medication reminders. Typically, a feature like this is accessible through a smartphone app.
The above-listed options can help get you started, but seeking input from a wider support network is essential. “Once you have made your priority list, I would then share with family, caregivers or your primary care physician or provider to get additional feedback,” adds Dr. Phillips.
Alena Hall and Jessica Lester also contributed to this piece.
Compare the Best Medical Alert Systems of 2025
Medical Guardian MGMini
5.0
Learn MoreOn Medical Guardian's Website
Best Medical Alert System for Versatility
LifeStation Sidekick Mobile
4.8
Learn MoreOn Lifestation's Website
Best Mobile Medical Alert System
Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection
4.2
Learn MoreOn Bay Alarm Medical's Website
Best Rugged Medical Alert Device
LifeFone At-Home Cellular With Fall Detection
4.1
Learn MoreOn LifeFone's Website
Best Home Medical Alert Device
Medical Guardian MGHome Cellular
4.0
Learn MoreOn Medical Guardian's Website
Best Medical Alert System For Large Homes
Apple Watch Series 10
4.0
Shop NowOn Amazon
Best Medical Alert Device With No Monthly Fee
Amazon Alexa Emergency Assist
3.8
View More
Best Voice-Activated Medical Alert Device
MobileHelp Micro
3.4
Learn MoreOn MobileHelp's Website
Best Medical Alert System With Fall Detection
GetSafe Starter With Fall Detection
3.3
Shop NowOn GetSafe's Website
Best System With Rip Cord Activation
Samsung Galaxy Watch7
3.2
Shop NowOn Amazon
Best Android Medical Alert Watch
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATINGS
BEST FOR
LEARN MORE
Medical Guardian MGMini
5.0
Best Medical Alert System for Versatility
Learn MoreOn Medical Guardian's Website
LifeStation Sidekick Mobile
4.8
Best Mobile Medical Alert System
Learn MoreOn Lifestation's Website
Bay Alarm Medical SOS All-In-One 2 With Fall Detection
4.2
Best Rugged Medical Alert Device
Learn MoreOn Bay Alarm Medical's Website
LifeFone At-Home Cellular With Fall Detection
4.1
Best Home Medical Alert Device
Learn MoreOn LifeFone's Website
Medical Guardian MGHome Cellular
4.0
Best Medical Alert System For Large Homes
Learn MoreOn Medical Guardian's Website
Apple Watch Series 10
4.0
Best Medical Alert Device With No Monthly Fee
Shop NowOn Amazon
Amazon Alexa Emergency Assist
3.8
Best Voice-Activated Medical Alert Device
View More
MobileHelp Micro
3.4
Best Medical Alert System With Fall Detection
Learn MoreOn MobileHelp's Website
GetSafe Starter With Fall Detection
3.3
Best System With Rip Cord Activation
Shop NowOn GetSafe's Website
Samsung Galaxy Watch7
3.2
Best Android Medical Alert Watch
Shop NowOn Amazon
See More See Less
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
Are medical alert systems worth it?
According to the results of a Forbes Health survey, many older adults find medical alert systems to be worth the investment. Of those who use a medical alert system for themselves or the adult they care for, 86% say the device has saved them (or the person they care for) from an incident.
Do you need Wi-Fi or a landline for medical alert systems?
Most medical alert systems require a landline connection, a Wi-Fi connection, a cellular connection or a combination thereof to maintain feedback with the company’s emergency monitoring center as the user moves through their daily life. Home-based devices can use any combination of those three connections while mobile-friendly options most frequently rely on cellular connectivity and GPS technology. As you explore your medical alert system options, review their specific connectivity requirements to make sure they’re a good fit for you and your lifestyle.
Do medical alert systems call family members?
Yes, some medical alert systems ask users to provide an emergency contact list of loved ones during initial system setup. In the event that they press their emergency call button, the representative at the monitoring center responds to the user in distress and notifies those listed on their emergency contact list that their loved one called for help. Medical Care Alert is a good example of one of these systems.
Which medical alert system does AARP recommend?
AARP (the American Association of Retired Persons) doesn’t recommend specific medical alert system products, but rather encourages people to consider their or their loved one’s specific needs and abilities in determining which one would be most suitable. With that said, AARP members can save 15% on medical alert systems from Lifeline Medical Alert Service, as well as receive free shipping and waived activation charges for their products.
Who responds to the system alerts, and how long does it take for someone to respond?
Each medical alert system connects with a call center, many of which are active 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Most companies staff these call centers with emergency response experts, who are primarily responsible for answering all incoming alert calls from these systems.
The amount of time it takes to connect with a call center employee once pressing the emergency button on your system can vary. Some systems have an average wait time of less than 30 seconds while others can take nearly three times as long.
Once you select a medical alert system, test it a few times. These calls will give you the best sense of what to expect from the system in your area.
How do non-monitored medical alert systems work?
Typically, an unmonitored medical alert system requires a landline connection as opposed to cellular service. When the wearer presses the emergency button, the system either dials 911 directly or a preset personal contact via that landline connection. When a person calls 911 from a landline, the call center can immediately see their home location, which can expedite the emergency dispatch, a clear benefit to the person using the medical alert system.
How do I know what range I need in a medical alert system?
Generally speaking, the required range needed in a medical alert system depends on two factors: the size of your house and how often the wearer might engage in outdoor activity. The median home size was 2,150 as of 2024, which makes a range of 1,000 feet or more a wise choice for the average home or cases where the wearer may be outdoors frequently. Devices with lower ranges may be suitable for particularly small houses, condos or apartments.
Sources
References
Appeadu M, Bordoni B.
Falls and Fall Prevention In The Elderly.
StatPearls Publishing. 2021.
Durable medical equipment (DME) coverage.
Medicare.gov. Accessed 6/8/2021.
Medical Alert Devices.
Consumers’ Checkbook. Accessed 6/8/2021.
Life Alert Cost Comparison and Review.
Senior Safety Reviews. Accessed 6/8/2021.
Affordability Headwinds Driving Home Buyers’ Interest in Smaller, More Personalized Homes in 2025.
National Association of Home Builders. Accessed 6/3/2025.
Does Insurance Cover Medical Alert Systems?.
National Council on Aging. Accessed 9/12/25.
Next Up In Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Watches
Best Medical Alert Necklaces
Best Medical Alert Bracelets
Best Medical Alert Systems With Fall Detection
Best Life Alert Alternatives
Life Alert Medical Alert System Review
Bay Alarm Medical Alert Review
Medical Guardian Review
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Christopher Groux
Staff Editor
Christopher Groux is an editor, writer and accessibility advocate. Before joining the Forbes Health team, he covered Accessibility at Reviewed and gaming at Inverse and Newsweek. When he’s not creating content, you can find Christopher catching up on
the latest games or watching a classic slasher film. Above all else, he’s an entertainment enthusiast with a passion
for helping the disability community in any way he can.
Meaghan Harmon
Staff Editor
Meaghan is an editor and writer who also has experience practicing holistic medicine as an acupuncturist and herbalist. She's passionate about helping individuals live full, healthy and happy lives at every age. Outside of writing and editing for Forbes Health, Meaghan loves practicing yoga, reading and spending time with her family near the ocean in her home state of Maine.
Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Necklaces
Best Medical Alert Bracelets
Best Medical Alert Watches
Best Alternatives To Life Alert
Medical Guardian Medical Alert Review
Bay Alarm Medical Alert Review
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise