Best Affordable Hearing Aids Of 2025 – Forbes Health
Subscribe To Newsletters
Subscribe To Newsletters
Trump Tracker
Billionaires
Billionaires
View All Billionaires
World's Billionaires
Forbes 400
America's Richest Self-Made Women
China's Richest
India's Richest
Indonesia's Richest
Korea's Richest
Thailand's Richest
Japan's Richest
Australia's Richest
Taiwan's Richest
Singapore's Richest
Philippines' Richest
Hong Kong's Richest
Malaysia's Richest
Money & Politics
2024 Election
Innovation
Innovation
View All Innovation
AI
Big Data
Cloud
Cloud 100
Consumer Tech
Creator Economy
Cybersecurity
Digital Transformation
Enterprise Commerce
Enterprise Security and Protection
Enterprise Tech
Enterprise Growth Strategy
Future Of Work
Gaming
greenhouse Insights: How AI Can Help You Make Your Smartest Hire Yet | Paid Program
Healthcare
Innovation Rules
Retail Industry
SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program
Science
Social Media
Sustainability & Climate
Transportation
Venture Capital
Technology
VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program
Zendesk BrandVoice | Paid Program
Leadership
Leadership
View All Leadership
Careers
CEO Network
CFO Network
CHRO Network
CIO Network
CMO Network
CxO
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Education
Forbes EQ | Paid Program
ForbesBLK
ForbesWomen
Leadership Strategy
Under 30
Working Remote
Over 50
Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program
Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program
Money
Money
View All Money
Banking & Insurance
ETFs & Mutual Funds
Fintech
Hedge Funds & Private Equity
Investing
Investor Hub
Markets
Personal Finance
Premium Investing Newsletters
Retirement
Taxes
Top Advisor | SHOOK
Wealth Management
Forbes Digital Assets
Forbes Digital Assets
View All Forbes Digital Assets
Home
Web3 Community
News
Crypto Prices
NFT Prices
Research
Learn
Crypto Basics
BTC
DeFi
Web3 Education
NFTs
Crypto Investments
Events
Crypto Portfolios
Investment Newsletters
Business
Business
View All Business
Aerospace & Defense
Energy
Food & Drink
Hollywood & Entertainment
Law
Manufacturing
Media
Policy
Retail
SportsMoney
Entertainment Digest
Small Business
Small Business
View All Small Business
Entrepreneurs
Franchises
Small Business Strategy
Lifestyle
Lifestyle
View All Lifestyle
Arts
Boats & Planes
Cars & Bikes
Dining
ForbesLife
Forbes Travel Guide
Spirits
Style & Beauty
Travel
Vices
Watches
Real Estate
Real Estate
View All Real Estate
Commercial Real Estate
Forbes Global Properties
Residential Real Estate
Vetted
Vetted
View All Vetted
Mattress & Sleep
Bed Frames
Mattresses
Mattress Toppers
Pillows
Sheets & Bedding
Sleep Products
Home
Bathroom
Cleaning & Laundry
Decor
Furniture
Heating & Cooling
Hobbies
Home Office
Kitchen & Dining
Outdoor
Pets
Storage & Organization
Tools
Wine & Bar
Fashion
Accessories
Clothing
Eyewear
Footwear
Jewelry
Handbags & Purses
Lingerie & Sleepwear
Outdoor & Fitness Apparel
Outerwear
Watches
Kids & Baby Gear
Baby Gear
Kids Clothes & Accessories
Nursery
Pregnancy & Postpartum
Toys & Books
Gear
Apparel & Accessories
Bikes
Camping & Hiking
Climbing
Fishing & Hunting
Fitness
Golf
Running
Tennis & Racket Sports
Tools & Tech
Training & Recovery
Water Sports
Wellness
Winter Sports
Beauty & Grooming
Haircare
Makeup
Nailcare
Shaving
Skincare
Personal Products
Wellness & Self Care
Tech & Electronics
Audio
Cameras
Computers, Tablets & Accessories
Gaming
Home Office
Online Tools
Smart Home Devices
Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories
Streaming
TVs
Travel
Cruises
Hotels & Lodging
Luggage
Travel Products
Gifts
Father's Day
Holiday
Mother's Day
Valentine's Day
Wedding
Deals
Black Friday
Cyber Monday
Amazon Prime Day
Beauty & Grooming
Big Sales
Fashion
Gear
Home
Tech & Electronics
Travel Deals
Mattress & Sleep
Forbes 101
Advisor
Advisor
View All Advisor
Credit Cards
Best Credit Cards
Travel Credit Cards
0% APR Credit Cards
Balance Transfer Credit Cards
Business Credit Cards
Best First Credit Card
Mortgages & Loans
Best Mortgage Lenders
Mortgage Refinance Lenders
Personal Loans
Business Loans
Bad Credit Loans
Debt Consolidation Loans
Debt Relief Companies
Student Loans Refinance
Private Student Loans
Banking
Best CD Rates
High Yield Savings Accounts
Money Market Accounts
Checking Accounts
Business Checking Accounts
Budgeting Apps
Best Online Banks
Insurance
Health Insurance Companies
Medicare
Life Insurance Companies
Best Car Insurance Companies
Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
Pet Insurance Companies
Travel Insurance Companies
Homeowners Insurance Companies
Business Services
How to Start a Business
LLC Services
Payroll Services
HR Software
HRIS Systems
PEO Services
Applicant tracking Systems
Domain Registrars
Hosting Services
Website Builders
Ecomm Platforms
Landing Page Builders
VOIP Services
Answering Services
Project Management Software
Task Management Software
Gantt Chart Software
VPNs
Anti Virus Software
Password Managers
Home Services
Moving Companies
Long Distance Moving Companies
Car Shipping Companies
Home Warranty Companies
Solar Companies
Solar Panels
Home Security Companies
Home Security Systems
Internet Providers
Cheapest Internet Providers
Fastest High Speed Internet Providers
Pest Control Companies
Education
Forbes Advisor UK
Forbes Advisor CA
Forbes Advisor AU
Health
Health
View All Health
Mental Health
Best Online Therapy
Online Therapy that Takes Insurance
Online Psychiatrists
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
CBD
CBD Gummies
CBD Oil
CBD Creams
CBD for Anxiety
CBD for Pain
Supplements
Protein Powder
Preworkout
Collagen Powders
Creatine Supplements
CoQ10 Supplements
Hearing Health
Best Hearing Aids
OTC Hearing Aids
Affordable Hearing Aids
Medical Devices
Best Medical Alert Systems
Best Medical Alert Systems with Fall Detection
Best Online Dating Sites & Apps
Best Dating Apps for Serious Relationships
Best Senior Dating Sites
Best LGBTQ Dating Sites
Diet & Weight Loss
Best Weight Loss Plans
Lists
Video
Newsletters
Newsletters
View All Newsletters
Crypto Confidential
Editorial Newsletters
Investing Digest
Premium Investing Newsletters
Forbes Games
Forbes Games
View All Forbes Games
Frase by Forbes
Pinpoint by LinkedIn
Queens by LinkedIn
Crossclimb by LinkedIn
Forbes Magazine
Forbes Magazine
View All Forbes Magazine
Forbes Asia
Free Issue of Forbes
Latest
Latest
Coronavirus Coverage
Daily Cover Stories
Dark Capital
Editors' Picks
Breaking News
Featured
Featured
American Express Insights: 5 Findings That Could Reveal Your Company's Path To Payment Innovation
The CEO's Guide To Marketing
The Forbes CIO Next List: 2024
America's Top Wealth Management Teams High Net Worth
The One Who Changed Everything Video Series
30 Under 30 2023
AI's Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It
Cognizant BrandVoice: Gen AI Leadership Conversation Video Series | Paid Program
DNA of Success
Embracing And Bracing For AI
Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance
Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey
'I Am Who I Am': Owning Your Personal And Professional Brand | Paid Program
TIAA BrandVoice | Paid Program
Forbes CXO Spotlight
Scaling AI Editorial Video Series | Paid Program
America's Top RIA Firms
5 Traits of AI Pacesetters to Help You Pull Ahead | Paid Program
State Farm BrandVoice | Paid Program
Thomson Reuters Insights Premium Post: 4 Factors To Explore When Considering Professional-Grade AI | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: The Future Of E-Commerce | Paid Program
The Birth Of Almanac: A Re-Evaluation Of What's Really Needed In Farming | Paid Program
Leadership Lessons on Financial Literacy Video Series, presented by New York Life | Paid Program
PayPal BrandVoice Premium Post: How Merchants Are Leveling Up Checkout To Drive Conversion | Paid Program
Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program
Poised To Outperform: Rev Up Your Investment Strategy With Active ETFs | Paid Program
ServiceNow BrandVoice Premium Post: Why It's Time To See Your Workforce In 4D | Paid Program
Presented by New York Life: Forbes Leadership Lessons On Financial Literacy | Paid Program
SAP BrandVoice: 4 Ways A Cloud ERP Can Unleash AI Potential | Paid Program
Advertise with Forbes
Report a Security Issue
Editorial Values and Standards
Site Feedback
Contact Us
Careers at Forbes
Tips
Corrections
Privacy
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Terms
AdChoices
Reprints & Permissions
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
Subscribe
Health
Health
Hearing Aids
Medical Alert Systems
CBD
Online Therapy
Supplements
Weight Loss
Best of
3.0
Our ratings take into account the card’s rewards, fees, rates along with the card’s category. All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.
Why we picked it
Read More
SCROLL TO SITE
SCROLL TO CURRENT LIST
We independently select all products and services. If you click through links we provide, we may earn a commission.
Learn More.
Advertiser Disclosure
The Forbes Health editorial team is independent and objective. To help support our reporting work, and to continue our ability to provide this content for free to our readers, we receive compensation from the companies that advertise on the Forbes Health site. This compensation comes from two main sources. First, we provide paid placements to advertisers to present their offers. The compensation we receive for those placements affects how and where advertisers’ offers appear on the site. This site does not include all companies or products available within the market. Second, we also include links to advertisers’ offers in some of our articles; these “affiliate links” may generate income for our site when you click on them.
The compensation we receive from advertisers does not influence the recommendations or advice our editorial team provides in our articles or otherwise impact any of the editorial content on Forbes Health. While we work hard to provide accurate and up-to-date information that we think you will find relevant, Forbes Health does not and cannot guarantee that any information provided is complete and makes no representations or warranties in connection thereto, nor to the accuracy or applicability thereof.
Health
Hearing Aids
Best Affordable Hearing Aids Of 2025, According To Experts
Published: Sep 1, 2025, 9:09am
Heidi Borst
Staff Writer
Heidi Borst is a writer, editor and certified nutrition coach who loves health and wellness. Before joining Forbes Health as a Staff Writer, her work appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, National Geographic, Business Insider, Yahoo Li...
See Full Bio
Heidi Borst
Staff Writer
Heidi Borst is a writer, editor and certified nutrition coach who loves health and wellness. Before joining Forbes Health as a Staff Writer, her work appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, National Geographic, Business Insider, Yahoo Li...
See Full Bio
Written By
Heidi Borst
Heidi Borst
Staff Writer
Heidi Borst is a writer, editor and certified nutrition coach who loves health and wellness. Before joining Forbes Health as a Staff Writer, her work appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, National Geographic, Business Insider, Yahoo Li...
See Full Bio
Heidi Borst
Staff Writer
Heidi Borst is a writer, editor and certified nutrition coach who loves health and wellness. Before joining Forbes Health as a Staff Writer, her work appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, National Geographic, Business Insider, Yahoo Li...
See Full Bio
Staff Writer
Megan Bilodeau, Au.D., CCC-A
Audiologist
Dr. Megan Bilodeau is a clinical audiologist who sees patients at Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, as well as her private practice Fiddlehead Audiology in Somerville, Massachusetts. She received her doctorate in audiology from Vanderbil...
See Full Bio
Megan Bilodeau, Au.D., CCC-A
Audiologist
Dr. Megan Bilodeau is a clinical audiologist who sees patients at Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, as well as her private practice Fiddlehead Audiology in Somerville, Massachusetts. She received her doctorate in audiology from Vanderbil...
See Full Bio
Megan Bilodeau, Au.D., CCC-A
Megan Bilodeau, Au.D., CCC-A
Audiologist
Dr. Megan Bilodeau is a clinical audiologist who sees patients at Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, as well as her private practice Fiddlehead Audiology in Somerville, Massachusetts. She received her doctorate in audiology from Vanderbil...
See Full Bio
Megan Bilodeau, Au.D., CCC-A
Audiologist
Dr. Megan Bilodeau is a clinical audiologist who sees patients at Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, as well as her private practice Fiddlehead Audiology in Somerville, Massachusetts. She received her doctorate in audiology from Vanderbil...
See Full Bio
Medically Reviewed
|
Audiologist
& 1 other
Published: Sep 1, 2025, 9:09am
Commissions we earn from partner links on this page do not affect our opinions or evaluations. Our editorial content is based on thorough research and guidance from the Forbes Health Advisory Board.
An estimated 28.8 million people in the U.S. could benefit from hearing aids, yet fewer than 20% seek help for hearing loss due to high costs, according to the National Institute on Deafness and Communication Disorders[1]Quick Statistics About Hearing, Balance, & Dizziness. National Institute on Deafness and Communication Disorders. Accessed 8/12/25. . While prescription devices can be expensive, over the counter (OTC) hearing aids may offer a more affordable option for individuals with mild to moderate hearing loss.
The Forbes Health editorial team conducted proprietary testing and consulted audiologists to identify the best affordable hearing aids of 2025, all of which are under $1,000. Our recommendations are based on a detailed methodology, including focus group feedback and key data points like price and product features. Here are our top five picks for budget-friendly hearing aids.
Note: All product prices listed are accurate as of the publication date. Forbes Health expert and medical reviewers do not endorse the brands, products and/or services listed in this article. Medical and expert reviewers corroborate the accuracy of informational content only.
Why You Can Trust Forbes Health
The Forbes Health editorial team prioritizes the accuracy and integrity of the data collected. Our ranking is based on quantitative data and is free from conflicts of interest. We carefully fact check the information featured in our ranking and are committed to producing rankings and supplemental content about hearing health that readers can trust. You can read more about our editorial guidelines and our hearing aids methodology for the rankings below.
5 hearing health experts consulted
15 hearing aid brands considered
5 focus group participants’ testing experiences utilized
13 products tested
Show More
Find The Best Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids
Best OTC Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids For Tinnitus
Best Invisible Hearing Aids
Best Bluetooth Hearing Aids
Eargo Hearing Aids Review
Lively Hearing Aids Review
Jabra Enhance Review
FEATURED PARTNER OFFER
We receive compensation from our partners for Featured Partner Offer placements. While this may influence where their products or services appear on our site, it in no way affects our ratings, which are based on thorough research, solid methodologies and expert advice. Our partners cannot pay us to guarantee favorable review of their products or services.	Jabra Enhance High-Tech Hearing Aids360-degree sound & bluetooth enabledNearly invisible with a sleek design Delivered straight to your door3 years of convenient, follow-up care from Jabra Enhance's audiology team	Shop Now	On Jabra Enhance's Website
{{ showSummarySection ? 'Hide Summary' : 'Show Summary' }}
Best Affordable Hearings Aids of 2025
Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
Sony CRE-E10 Hearing Aid
Sennheiser All Day Clear Hearing Aid
Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Affordable Hearing Aids of 2025
How Much Do Hearing Aids Cost?
Who Benefits From Affordable OTC Hearing Aids
How To Find Affordable Hearing Aids
Factors That Affect the Cost of Hearing Aids
Compare the Best Affordable Hearing Aids of 2025
Best Affordable Hearings Aids of 2025
Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
5.0
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Price: $449Type: Behind-the-ear (BTE)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 20 hours	Shop Now	On Elehear's Website Why We Chose Elehear BeyondAt $449 per pair, Elehear Beyond is the most affordable option on our list, and users appreciate the device’s functionality.During in-person focus group testing, the Elehear Beyond stood out for its ability to improve, clarify and amplify sounds across the experiences of three participants. In fact, all three testers rated the hearing aid with four out of five stars for overall sound quality of speech. Participants also appreciated the control center within the Elehear app, which provided a user-friendly experience.“Everything you would want in an OTC hearing aid…excellent sound quality, rechargeability, Bluetooth streaming for both Android and iOs, affordability as well as tinnitus masking” – Lindsey Banks, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsBudget-friendly at the lowest price point on our listOffers real-time artificial intelligence (AI) speech translation (meaning the hearing aid catches spoken language and translates it into the user’s preferred language) as well as advanced AI noise reductionHearing aid is highly customizable via the Elehear app, according to focus group feedbackManufacturer offers a 45-day risk-free trialOnly available in two colorsAdditional charge incurred if user requires a longer receiver length than standard offeringParticipant experienced odd “chorus” effect when listening to pure tones or music in focus group testingShorter battery life compared to similar products	Proprietary Testing Insights for Elehear BeyondSound Quality: Elehear Beyond scored a 73 out of 100 in sound clarity based on laboratory data.Noise Reduction Performance: Scored 4.3 out of 5 based on focus group participant responses.Customization: Offers a personalized experience via the Elehear app, which focus group participants enjoyed (particularly the “speech focus” feature)Cost and Insurance Coverage: Scored 4 out of 5 based on consumer sentiment data.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 74 out of 100 based on laboratory testing results.Comfort Score: Rated 4.3 out of 5 based on participant feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantThree individuals tested the Elehear Beyond. Steven, a first-time hearing aid user, found the device easy to set up and comfortable to wear, as well as enhancing sound volume and clarity. Two other participants, Jim (a first-time hearing aid user) and Timothy (who currently uses hearing aids), agreed the device immediately improved sound. All three reviewers said they were able to insert the hearing aids into their ears without difficulty. They also appreciated the features within the app and the level of control allotted when adjusting the hearing aid’s settings.“Better isolation features than the other OTCs I’ve tried.” – Timothy, 65, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester“[I] really like the all around or front-facing mode.” – Steven, 59, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Sony CRE-E10 Hearing Aid
4.8
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Price: $899.99 per pairType: In-the-ear (ITE)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS onlyBattery life: Up to 26 hours, with disposable and rechargeable battery options	Shop Now	On Sony's Website Why We Chose Sony CRE-E10With its reasonable price point, this model stands out as a cost-effective option in the OTC hearing aid market. Our focus group participant found the Sony CRE-E10 easy to set up and insert into their ear, as well as fairly comfortable. Users can adjust volume control, sound balance and directionality of this self-fitting, OTC hearing aid—all from its accompanying app. Its features include wind noise reduction (which improves outdoor listening), advanced acoustic processing, which provides for ease of listening, impact sound smoothing technology for sudden loud noises and more.	Pros & ConsFairly comfortable and stays in place, according to our focus group participantUp to a 26-hour battery lifeEasy to setup and insert, per our focus group participantFree one-on-one virtual consult with an expert availableOur focus group participant experienced minor connection difficultiesUsers may experience a “flanging” or “chorus” effect when listening to pure tones or music, per our focus group participantOnly accessible to iOS usersMay not be helpful for tinnitus, based on our focus group participant’s experience	Proprietary Testing Insights for Sony CRE-E10Sound Quality: Sony CRE-E10 scored a 73 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction Performance: Scored 2 out of 5 based on focus group data.Customization: Our focus group participant felt there was adequate “headroom” for additional amplification and found the “tone” setting to be usefulCost and Insurance Coverage: Scored 4 out of 5 based on consumer sentiment data.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 76 out of 100 based on laboratory testing data.Comfort Score: Rated 3 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantOur reviewer of the Sony CRE-E10 hearing aids, Timothy, noticed an immediate improvement in speech and sound intelligibility and found the device setup to be simple. While he experienced a strange “flanging” or “chorus” effect while listening to music and pure tones, he found the hearing aid to be fairly comfortable and stayed in place well. In comparison to other hearing aids he’s used, the Sony CRE-E10 was more noticeable than his behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aids, but the experience was overall similar. Timothy added that while sounds were quite loud, and frequencies may have been amplified that shouldn’t have been, the hearing aid had the ability provide additional amplification, if necessary. Though he experienced minor connection difficulties initially, he found the tone setting to be useful and said all voices seemed to be amplified in a crowded room.“Quite easy to insert. I like the shape of the dome/eartip. They seem to stay in place fairly well.” – Timothy, 65, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Enjoy 5% Off 	Using code ForbesChoice	Sennheiser All Day Clear Hearing Aid
4.8
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Price: $999.95 per pairType: Receiver-in-canal (RIC) Hearing loss: Mild or moderate Bluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android Battery life: Up to 16 hours 	Shop Now	On Sennheiser's Website Why We Chose Sennheiser All-Day ClearPriced moderately, this device stands out for its self-fitting capability, meaning an audiologist may not need to adjust the aid for comfort and performance. Instead, users can set up and fit the device on their own time with the help of the Sennheiser Smart Control app.“An affordable OTC hearing aid with excellent sound quality from a well-known brand. It is rechargeable and has Bluetooth streaming capabilities for both Androids and iPhones.” – Lindsey Banks, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsUsers can create their own sound profileAffordable compared to other OTC hearing aids availableAutomatically detects and optimizes sound based on your environmentCompany offers an optional premium service, which includes additional support from a licensed hearing care professionalUnable to connect to app or Bluetooth during focus group testingShort battery life compared to other products on this listDoesn’t feature tinnitus management controlsUser reviews on the product page note charging port may be outdated	Proprietary Testing Insights for Sennheiser All-Day ClearSound Quality: The Sennheiser All-Day Clear scored an 80 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction Performance: Not scored due to Bluetooth connectivity malfunction during focus group.Cost and Insurance Coverage: Rated 4 out of 5 based on consumer sentiment data.Customization: Unable to confirm customization features or capacity during focus group testing.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 78 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 3 out of 5, based on focus group participant feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantWhile our focus group participant, Steven, was unable to achieve a Bluetooth connection between the Sennheiser All-Day Clear and its accompanying app, he rated the hearing aid 3 out of 5 for comfort, 4 out of 5 for ease of set up, 4 out of 5 for appearance and 3 out of 5 for speech quality.
Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
4.6
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Price: $649.99 per pair Type: Receiver-in-canal (RIC) Hearing loss: Mild or moderate Bluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devices Battery life: Up to 16 hours
Why We Chose Lucid EngageIn our focus group testing, our participant appreciated the music quality and app pairing abilities of the Lucid Engage. We chose this hearing aid due to its unique speaker-in-the-ear format, which gives the wearer high-definition natural sound with greater clarity, and it comes at a price point that won’t break the bank. This product also comes with a one-year warranty.“RIC style (most preferred style) hearing aid with good sound performance test results.” – Abram Bailey, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsEasy to set up in focus group testingIncludes a free pair of hearing protection earplugs at checkoutMoisture-resistantAvailable in three colorsOne of the shortest battery life options on this listTips and overall feel may be uncomfortable, per our product testerMay not be ideal for those with longer hair, per our product testerAdjustment and customization settings in app may be limited or difficult to navigate, per our product tester	Proprietary Testing Insights for Lucid EngageSound Quality: Lucid Engage scored a 73 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction Performance: Scored a 1 out of 5 based on focus group data.Cost and Insurance Coverage: Rated 3.8 out of 5 based on consumer sentiment data.Customization: Our focus group participant appreciated being able to customize the amplification profile and was able to accurately toggle between streaming and ambiance.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored 76 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 2 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantOur tester for the Lucid Engage hearing aid, Margaret, was satisfied with how easy it was to insert the device. However, she found issues with the technicalities of the device and the feeling of the tips in the ears to be uncomfortable, saying her ear felt “full.” While she was comfortable using the accompanying app, she felt there weren’t enough ways to make adjustments and found customizing her amplification profile and toggling between streaming and ambience settings difficult. She also found the hearing aid did not isolate voices well in a crowded or noisy room.“I don’t love them and probably wouldn’t spend much money on them. The gain I get in speech in multitalker babble is not worth the background noise. Music quality and app pairing was good. Lack of individualization to [the] hearing profile. [I] like that they are rechargeable, but I would want a battery option as well.” – Maggie, 38, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
4.5
All ratings are determined solely by our editorial team.Price: $999 per pairType: Receiver-in-canal (RIC)Hearing loss: Mild or moderateBluetooth connectivity: Compatible with iOS and Android devicesBattery life: Up to 18 hours	Shop Now	On Lexie Hearing's Website Why We Chose Lexie B2 PlusOut of all of the hearing aids our focus group tested, the two participants who tried the Lexie B2 Plus were extremely satisfied with the sounds, noise reduction and overall feel of this hearing aid. Both testers felt it was their favorite or the best model they had tried. Plus, it scored well in sound quality and affordability, making this a well-rounded option.“Has good sound quality, rechargeability, [Bluetooth] call streaming and an easy-to-use app with a self-fitting function.” – Lindsey Banks, Au.D., audiologist and Forbes Health Advisory Board member	Pros & ConsIdeal for individuals looking for a receiver-in-canal (RIC) style hearing aid, which Dr. Bailey claims is the most preferredOne-year warranty availableScored well in comfort, according to our focus group testers45-day trial periodOnly available in one colorWebsite features limited information on device featuresMusic and media streaming weren’t optimal, according to focus group feedbackMay not be compatible with some Android devices	Proprietary Testing Insights for Lexie B2 PlusSound Quality: Lexie B2 Plus scored an 83 out of 100 in sound clarity, according to laboratory testing.Noise Reduction: Scored 4 out of 5 based on focus group data.Cost and Insurance Coverage: Rated 3.4 out of 5 based on consumer sentiment data.Customization: One of our focus group participants felt there were not enough options for adjustment in the app.Speech Clarity in Loud Environments: Scored a 70 out of 100 based on laboratory data.Comfort Score: Rated 4 out of 5, based on user feedback specific to this model.From Our Focus Group ParticipantsTwo of our focus group participants, Maggie and Steven, tested the Lexie B2 Plus hearing aids. Both individuals found the hearing aid comfortable; however, Maggie stated that the thin tips are not her personal preference. Both also claimed the Lexie was the best out of the hearing aids they had tried in spite of connectivity issues, either with Bluetooth syncing or connecting to an Apple device.Maggie was comfortable using the app, but she felt it didn’t have enough options for adjustment. She explained that she was unable to localize sound as well as she was able to with other hearing aids and couldn’t get the settings quite right for conversation in a noisy environment.“Of the three I tried, these are my favorite. [They] just feel natural.” – Steven, 59, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester“I don’t like the tips but otherwise [these are] comfortable (I haven’t liked any of the thin tips with BTE so these aren’t standing out, I think this is just personal preference).” – Maggie, 38, Bellingham, Washington, Product Tester
Methodology: How We Picked the Best Affordable Hearing Aids of 2025
To determine the best hearing aids, the Forbes Health editorial team consulted several audiologists on the Forbes Health Advisory Board for specific product recommendations based on their years of experience fitting various hearing aid models for a wide array of individuals. Each expert was careful to consider the newest technology available in the hearing aid space when providing their recommendations, as well as newer brands and the roles they’re playing in this constantly evolving industry.
We also partnered with Western Washington University (WWU)’s audiology hearing department to conduct extensive laboratory testing, including sound quality, speech clarity and intelligibility (including smoothness, internal noise and bandwidth) and feedback resistance. Plus, two Forbes Health editors conducted an in-person focus group with five participants at WWU to explore OTC device comfort and functionality.
Star ratings were solely determined by the editorial team, based on detailed methodology points, including:
Ziphearing starting price for a pair/brand, starting price for a pair (OTC) and Hearing Tracker price for prescription: 20%
Speech intelligibility, sound quality, output and safety and responsiveness scores: 20%
Number of board members who recommend this hearing aid: 10%
If it has tinnitus management specific features: 10%
Whether it performs well for background noise reduction: 10%
If it performs well for music: 10%
If it has a disposable and rechargeable battery option and maximum battery life on a single charge (rechargeable only; in hours): 7.5%
Whether it is Bluetooth compatible and if it connects well with iOS and Android devices: 7.5%
Whether it has an app for customization, remote management, etc.: 5%
Our list features OTC hearing aids, which tend to be significantly more affordable compared to prescription devices. However, they’re only appropriate for people with perceived mild to moderate hearing loss who are comfortable setting up the devices themselves. Prescription hearing aids, which are available via audiologists and other hearing health specialists following a hearing test, can be suitable for people with mild to profound hearing loss and tend to have much more customizable fitting options, as well as additional technology and features managed by a professional.
Read more about our hearing aids review methodology.
How Much Do Hearing Aids Cost?
Prescription hearing aids can range from $2,000 to $7,000 per pair. However, OTC hearing aids offer an affordable alternative—the devices listed in this guide range from $449 to $1000 per pair.
“OTC hearing aids are more affordable and accessible without a prescription, making them a good option for adults with perceived mild to moderate hearing loss,” notes Leslie Peterson Soiles, Au.D., chief audiologist at Hearing Life, a national hearing health care company. However, they’re one-size-fits-all and not customized, which can limit their effectiveness for more complex hearing needs, she says.
The following are the top-ranking affordable hearing aids on our list, as well as starting prices for a pair:
PRODUCT
STARTING PRICE PER PAIR
Elehear Beyond
$449
Sony CRE-E10
$899.99
Sennheiser All Day Clear
$999.95
Lucid Engage
$649.99
Lexie B2 Plus
$999
See More See Less
Advanced Hearing Aids for a Premium Sound
Designed for mild to severe hearing loss, horizontal hearing aids feature dual sound processors to enhance speech and reduce background noise, making them perfect for noisy or busy environment
Shop Now
On Hear.com's Website
How to Save Money on Hearing Aids
Even though OTC hearing aids are usually more affordable than prescription options, they can still be a big expense. Here are ways to save:
Compare brands and models to find similar features at lower prices.
Check for promotions, such as holiday sales events, clearance events and retailer discounts.
Try an online store, which often offer lower prices than brick-and-mortar locations.
Use manufacturer rebates and special offers to help lower the cost.
Enroll in a financing plan to pay for the cost of your hearing aids over time.
Consult an audiologist to ensure you’re choosing the best device for your hearing needs.
Who Benefits From Affordable OTC Hearing Aids
OTC hearing aids are FDA-approved for adults with mild to moderate hearing loss. These devices can provide hearing loss treatment to individuals who may not have the resources or budget for prescription hearing aids, such as those on fixed incomes. However, individuals with more severe hearing loss should consult an audiologist to determine the best hearing aid options.
How To Find Affordable Hearing Aids
“Most private insurance plans and traditional Medicare do not cover hearing aids, often because they’re still considered elective devices,” says Dr. Soiles. Medicare Advantage (Part C) plans offered by private insurance companies typically offer some hearing benefits, but it’s important to check with your specific plan.
If insurance doesn’t cover the devices, try exploring local pharmacies, big-box retailers, and online platforms to find the best deal. You can also check for direct-to-consumer sales offered by manufacturers, which often offer competitive pricing. Financing plans and monthly payment options can also help make hearing aids more affordable, advises Dr. Soiles.
To locate organizations that may provide financial assistance visit The Hearing Industries Association of America’s website.
Factors That Affect the Cost of Hearing Aids
Several factors influence price variations among hearing aids, including:
Technology: Advanced features such as Bluetooth connectivity, noise cancellation, tinnitus masking and customizable settings often mean a higher price.
Brand reputation: Well-established manufacturers typically command higher prices due to their reliability and customer service.
Type of hearing aid: BTE, ITE or CIC models can vary in cost based on design and functionality.
Compare the Best Affordable Hearing Aids of 2025
Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
5.0
Shop NowOn Elehear's Website
Sony CRE-E10 Hearing Aid
4.8
Shop NowOn Sony's Website
Sennheiser All Day Clear Hearing Aid
4.8
Shop NowOn Sennheiser's Website
Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
4.6
View More
Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
4.5
Shop NowOn Lexie Hearing's Website
PRODUCT
FORBES HEALTH RATINGS
LEARN MORE
Elehear Beyond Hearing Aid
5.0
Shop NowOn Elehear's Website
Sony CRE-E10 Hearing Aid
4.8
Shop NowOn Sony's Website
Sennheiser All Day Clear Hearing Aid
4.8
Shop NowOn Sennheiser's Website
Lucid Engage Hearing Aid
4.6
View More
Lexie B2 Plus Hearing Aid
4.5
Shop NowOn Lexie Hearing's Website
See More See Less
Sources
Footnotes
Quick Statistics About Hearing, Balance, & Dizziness. National Institute on Deafness and Communication Disorders. Accessed 8/12/25.
References
OTC Hearing Aids: What You Should Know.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Accessed 8/12/25.
Hearing Aid Prices.
HearingLife. Accessed 8/12/25.
OTC Hearing Aid Prices.
Lexie. Accessed 8/12/25.
Insurance and Hearing Aids.
American Speech-Language-Hearing Association. Accessed 8/12/25.
Hearing Aids.
Medicare.gov. Accessed 8/12/25.
Next Up In
Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids Of 2025
Best Invisible Hearing Aids Of 2025
Best Over-the-Counter (OTC) Hearing Aids
Best Bluetooth Hearing Aids
Jabra Enhance Hearing Aids Review
Phonak Hearing Aids Review
Oticon Hearing Aids Review
How To Get Free Hearing Aids For Seniors
Information provided on Forbes Health is for educational purposes only. Your health and wellness is unique to you, and the products and services we review may not be right for your circumstances. We do not offer individual medical advice, diagnosis or treatment plans. For personal advice, please consult with a medical professional.
Forbes Health adheres to strict editorial integrity standards. To the best of our knowledge, all content is accurate as of the date posted, though offers contained herein may no longer be available. The opinions expressed are the author’s alone and have not been provided, approved or otherwise endorsed by our advertisers.
Heidi Borst
Staff Writer
Heidi Borst is a writer, editor and certified nutrition coach who loves health and wellness. Before joining Forbes Health as a Staff Writer, her work appeared in The New York Times, The Washington Post, National Geographic, Business Insider, Yahoo Life and more. When she's not writing, she enjoys being active outdoors or in the gym and spending time with friends and family.
Megan Bilodeau, Au.D., CCC-A
Audiologist
Dr. Megan Bilodeau is a clinical audiologist who sees patients at Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, as well as her private practice Fiddlehead Audiology in Somerville, Massachusetts. She received her doctorate in audiology from Vanderbilt University after completing a year-long clinical externship at Mass Eye and Ear. Dr. Bilodeau is a nationally certified and state-licensed audiologist with professional associations including the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA). She works with patients of all ages, ranging from infancy to adulthood, and aims to give each patient the personalized care and counseling they need to understand their hearing loss and improve their quality of life. Her clinical interests include pediatric audiology, traditional hearing aids, bone-anchored hearing aids and cochlear implants.
Find The Best Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids
Best OTC Hearing Aids
Best Hearing Aids For Tinnitus
Best Invisible Hearing Aids
Best Bluetooth Hearing Aids
Eargo Hearing Aids Review
Lively Hearing Aids Review
Jabra Enhance Review
© 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved.
AdChoices
AdChoices
Privacy Statement
Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information
Privacy Preferences
Digital Terms of Sale
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Send Us Feedback
Report a Security Issue
Jobs At Forbes
Reprints & Permissions
Forbes Press Room
Advertise