AT&T Internet Air Review: Does AT&T’s 5G Internet Offering Live Up to the Hype? - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Internet Broadband
AT&T Internet Air Review: Does AT&T’s 5G Internet Offering Live Up to the Hype?
AT&T Fiber is one of the fastest internet options around -- here's what we think of AT&T's 5G internet option.
Article updated on July 3, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
David Anders
CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review the products and services we cover. If you buy through our links, we may get paid.
Reviews ethics statement
David Anders Former Senior Writer David covered broadband providers, smart home devices and security products. Expertise Broadband providers | Home internet | Security cameras
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
34353637383940+ Reviews 344345346347348349350400+ Cities/States
Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
Our expert staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and evaluates our top picks. The order in which our top picks are presented may be impacted by partnerships, and we may get a commission if you buy through our links.
Unavailable in
Provider unavailable in 90001 Edit ...
See at AT&T
Or call:
Or call to learn more:
(855) 378-3205
AT&T Internet Air rating How we calculated our rating
6.9/10
CNET Score
We score internet providers for speed, value and customer care. Our data sources include the FCC, J.D. Power, The American Customer Satisfaction Index and extensive in-house research.
Read more
6.9 / 10
SCORE
Speed
6.5/10
Value
7/10
Customer Care
7/10
Pros
Decent speeds for a rural connection
Free equipment, simple setup
No contracts, overage fees or price increase at 12 months
Cons
Possible speed throttling
Limited availability
See more pros and cons
Table of Contents
AT&T Internet Air Review: Does AT&T’s 5G Internet Offering Live Up to the Hype?
AT&T Internet Air review
What is AT&T Internet Air exactly?
AT&T Internet Air plan and pricing
Where can you sign up for AT&T Internet Air?
AT&T Internet Air service terms
How does AT&T Internet Air compare?
AT&T Internet Air customer satisfaction
Is AT&T Internet Air worth it?
AT&T Internet Air FAQs
AT&T Internet Air reviewIt's no secret that AT&T Fiber is a home internet crowd-pleaser. We voted it the best internet provider in the country for 2025 (tied with Verizon Fios), and it was rated the fastest ISP for 2025 by Ookla Speedtest data -- as well as the most consistent and the top-rated ISP. (Disclosure: Ookla is owned by the same parent company as CNET, Ziff Davis.) But, where do those glowing reviews leave AT&T Internet Air, the telecom company's latest internet service offering? On paper, there's a lot to be excited about: AT&T Internet Air relies on a 5G network to get users online and features an all-in-one plan with download speeds ranging from 90 to 300 megabits per second, a vast improvement from the speeds offered by AT&T's DSL service. Plus, your equipment is included for free, and there are no term agreements.5G home internet offers faster speeds and fewer delays compared to 4G LTE, and has become an increasingly popular option for home internet overall. As fiber networks remain challenging to expand in new markets, it's no surprise that providers like AT&T are turning to fixed wireless internet options like 5G home internet to reach more houses. This technology provides a long-overdue upgrade for broadband in rural areas relying on the slow speeds of DSL internet and is often an amicable alternative to wired internet service providers in the city. Locating local internet providers
AT&T has an existing sprawling mobile network and offers a traditional, 4G LTE fixed wireless internet option, but it has held back on its 5G home internet service until now. T-Mobile Home Internet and Verizon 5G Home Internet have long dominated the 5G home internet space since 2021, but now AT&T is stepping up to the plate. AT&T Internet Air was first introduced only to existing DSL customers as a service upgrade, but is now available to all new customers (along with upgrade-eligible DSL customers) in nearly 100 markets across 48 states. Whether it’s available to you as an upgrade or an entirely new service, you’re probably wondering whether AT&T Internet Air is worth signing up for. Here’s everything you need to know. Locating local internet providers
AT&T's Internet Air aims to turn 5G into home broadband.  Screenshot by Eli Blumenthal/CNETWhat is AT&T Internet Air exactly?AT&T Internet Air is a new home internet service delivered over AT&T's 5G wireless network. The enhanced wireless network supports faster speeds than AT&T's traditional fixed wireless service (which typically tops out at a mere 10Mbps) and eliminates the need for a mounted receiver with a direct line of sight to a nearby tower.
Take our quiz
Get Started
Progress
Step 1 of 4
How many members of your household use the internet?
1-2 people 3-5 people 6-9 people 10+ people
Next
Compared with the other 5G home internet providers, specifically T-Mobile Home Internet and Verizon 5G Home Internet, AT&T Internet Air has some definite catching up to do regarding coverage area and availability. But pricing and service terms should be on par with the competition. Here's what to expect.AT&T Internet Air plan and pricing
PlanMonthly priceMax speedsFees and service details
AT&T Internet Air Read full review $60 ($47 with an eligible AT&T wireless plan)90-300Mbps down, 8-30Mbps upNo equipment fees, data caps or contracts
Show more (0 item)
Shop providers at my address
Source: CNET analysis of provider data.AT&T Internet Air offers just one plan, for $60 a month. Service includes the fastest speeds available, typically between 90 and 300Mbps down and 8 to 30Mbps up, according to AT&T. If you bundle with a qualifying mobile plan from AT&T, you lower that monthly rate to $47. As with every fixed wireless provider, actual speeds to the home depend on network congestion and your home's proximity to a tower. Some people may see faster speeds, at least until more customers join the local network, while others may experience slower speeds. The Federal Communications Commission defines broadband as at least 100Mbps in download speed and 20Mbps in upload speed, so if your AT&T Internet Air speeds fall on the lower end, it may technically not qualify as a broadband connection. That said, AT&T Internet Air should still offer enough speed for basic internet usage; if you have a lot of streamers, gamers or remote workers using your service, it may not be the plan for you.CNET's Joe Supan tried out AT&T Internet Air and found the speeds sorely lacking compared with his cable internet service -- barely topping out at 10Mbps. But again, your experience might differ based on your location, so it's worth trying at your address to see what speeds you can get.T-Mobile 5G Home Internet is ahead of the game as far as speeds go for 5G internet: Thanks to equipment upgrades, T-Mobile can now offer up to 415Mbps for 5G internet customers. AT&T Internet Air definitely has some catching up to do.Watch out for possible fluctuating speeds and throttlingA wired connection like cable, fiber or even DSL, can generally offer more consistent speeds to the home, but speeds over a wireless service, even one as advanced as 5G, can vary considerably at any time for a number of reasons. For one, inclement weather can affect your connection, but network congestion is the most likely cause of slower 5G home internet speeds. To counter the potential problem, AT&T says it will “greatly reduce your speed for a minimum of 30 minutes” if your usage is deemed to be significantly contributing to network congestion. What isn't clear is how AT&T determines when and how you're contributing to network congestion. I'd recommend being somewhat aware of your internet use -- how many devices are connected, what tasks they're performing, and at what time of day -- for the first few months of service. Take note of any speed throttling instances to understand what may cross the congestion contribution threshold.Where can you sign up for AT&T Internet Air?
The FCC's broadband map shows AT&T Internet Air available to 14.8% of US addresses. FCCWireless delivery is a big advantage to 5G home internet as it can reach many homes in an area without the need for cable infrastructure. AT&T Internet Air does not yet boast nearly the same availability as T-Mobile Home Internet or Verizon 5G Home Internet, but we can expect it to grow -- especially as a viable rural internet option.AT&T Internet Air is currently available across 47 states in the US. That sounds like a lot, and it is, but many markets are also serviceable for AT&T Fiber. If your address is eligible for AT&T Fiber, don't hesitate to switch to fiber: Even the slowest AT&T Fiber plan is cheaper, faster and comes with truly unlimited data compared with AT&T Internet Air.AT&T Internet Air is still growing, but here are some the major cities that can sign up for service.
Austin, Texas Corpus Christi, TexasLittle Rock. ArkansasRichmond, VirginiaBaltimore, Maryland Dallas, TexasLos Angeles, CaliforniaSan Antonio, TexasBeaumont, Texas Dayton, OhioMcAllen, TexasSan Diego, CaliforniaBoise, Idaho Durham, North CarolinaNaples, FloridaSan Francisco, CaliforniaBoston, Massachusetts Fort Myers, FloridaNew Orleans, LouisanaSanta Barbara, CaliforniaBrownsville, Texas Fort Worth, TexasOklahoma City, OklahomaSavannah, Georgia Buffalo, New York Harlingen, TexasOrlando, FloridaSyracuse, New YorkCasper, Wyoming Indianapolis, IndianaPhiladelphia, PennsylvaniaTallahassee, FloridaCharlotte, North Carolina Iowa City, IowaPort Arthur, TexasTulsa, OklahomaChicago, Illinois Jacksonville, FloridaPortland, OregonVictoria, TexasColumbus, Ohio Laredo, TexasRaleigh, North CarolinaWest Palm Beach, FloridaCharleston, South Carolina Laredo, TexasRochester, New YorkWashington, DCCasper, Wyoming Little Rock. ArkansasRockford, IllinoisWest Palm Beach, Florida
Show more (8 items)
Shop providers at my address
Residents might also find coverage in Fort Pierce, Florida; Weslaco, Texas; San Luis Obispo, California; Pine Bluff, Arkansas; Panama City, Florida; Thomasville, Georgia; Sherman, Texas; Ada, Oklahoma, Victoria, Texas and more. Check out the list of markets that is serviceable for AT&T Internet Air. When I ran serviceability checks, using dozens of addresses in various AT&T Internet Air markets, results mostly included AT&T Fiber plans or AT&T Internet -- the DSL service that AT&T Internet Air is replacing. Very few addresses gave me the option of AT&T Internet Air, despite checking availability in and around roughly 15 cities.Plug in your your address here to see if you are eligible for service. If you are an AT&T Internet (DSL) customer, AT&T will likely contact you when Internet Air becomes available as an upgrade to your home internet service.AT&T Internet Air service terms
AT&TThe network congestion policy is a bit vague, but everything else that can affect your service or your bill is more straightforward. Equipment is included at no extra cost, there are no overage fees, no contracts and no set price increases at the 12-month mark.Free equipment
AT&TAT&T’s sleek-looking AT&T All-Fi is included with the monthly cost, replacing a modem and router. The self-setup process (no professional installation required) involves little more than plugging in the router and setting up your Wi-Fi network. You may want to try placing the router in different locations throughout your home to determine which location gives you the best coverage and connection quality. AT&T also offers ActiveArmor, a security plan with built-in defenses. The AT&T Smart Home Manager app will likely recommend a place for the gateway device (in Supan's case, it recommended placing it near a window and facing west). If your connection is lacking in certain areas of your home, AT&T offers whole-home mesh Wi-Fi with up to five extenders for an additional $10 monthly.No overage feesThis language from AT&T for Internet Air is new to me. AT&T Fiber has no data caps or unlimited data. AT&T Internet, the DSL service, and AT&T Fixed Wireless have set data caps and fees for going over.AT&T Internet Air does not mention specific data caps, only that there are no overage fees, which implies that you can use as much data as you want, seemingly “unlimited.” However, AT&T reserves the right to throttle your speeds during high usage periods. So, while your data use may result in throttled speeds for a period, you won’t have to worry about adding anything to your bill.No contracts or set price increase at 12 monthsThere are no contracts with AT&T Internet Air, so you can try the service risk-free without fear of early termination fees if you decide the service isn’t for you. If AT&T Internet Air does end up meeting your needs, you won’t be hit with a set price increase after a year of service. That’s not to say the price will never go up, but there isn’t a definite, and potentially steep, price increase at the 12-month mark like you get with many internet providers.How does AT&T Internet Air compare?AT&T Internet Air is still a relatively new service, so it’s tough to say how it holds up to other internet providers when it comes to performance and overall value. On paper, AT&T Internet Air is comparable to 5G home internet from T-Mobile, though it lacks the same breadth of coverage. T-Mobile 5G Home Internet is faster at 87 to 415Mbps versus AT&T Internet Air's 90 to 300Mbps range. Verizon 5G Home Internet has a higher speed range than both (50 to 300Mbps or 85 to 1,000Mbps) and a lower starting price than AT&T Internet Air at $50 monthly or less for qualifying mobile customers.Considering the mobile bundle discount, choosing AT&T, Verizon or T-Mobile for 5G home internet may depend on your wireless carrier. As for other connection types, AT&T Internet Air will likely be a significant improvement over DSL, but I wouldn’t count on it replacing your cable or fiber service just yet. Depending on the available providers in your area, cable and fiber internet will offer more, and faster, speed options and better connection quality, even if the price is a bit more per month. AT&T Internet Air customer satisfactionWhile AT&T's fiber internet service consistently performs well, according to the American Customer Satisfaction Index and J.D. Power, AT&T's non-fiber services trail behind.
AT&T fell just short of the top 5 non-fiber internet providers, per the latest American Customer Satisfaction Index. ACSIAT&T Fiber claimed the ACSI’s top spot for customer satisfaction among fiber providers, scoring 78 out of 100 for 2025. For non-fiber, AT&T Internet fared less well, gravitating toward the middle of the pack with a 70/100 among non-fiber providers, a 1% decrease from the previous year. T-Mobile's 5G Home Internet scored the highest, with a 78, followed by Verizon 5G at 77.While AT&T's non-fiber rankings are lacking, keep in mind that ACSI lumps all of AT&T's non-fiber services into that category: It likely lags behind due to low scores from its DSL and fixed wireless services.Notably, since J.D. Power has begun using different categories for "wired" and "non-wired" internet connection types, fixed wireless internet has proven increasingly popular among customers. AT&T's wireless internet options (assumedly AT&T Internet Air and its slower fixed wireless option) ranked last overall.
J.D. Power's results for the 2024 Residential Internet Service Provider Satisfaction Study proved that wireless internet providers are becoming an increasingly popular alternative to wired internet from cable or fiber providers. J.D. PowerMoreover, I turned to Reddit for more insight into how well the service has been received thus far. Reddit was, as it often is, a mixed bag of positive and negative comments. Some praised the speeds and connection quality while others said they would rather keep their DSL service and referred to Internet Air’s cellular internet service as “a glorified hotspot for your home.”Is AT&T Internet Air worth it?It’s still early, but given the popularity, convenience and apparent value of 5G home internet service, I would say AT&T Internet Air is at least worth considering, especially for those in rural areas where options are often limited.Ultimately, there is no contract with AT&T Internet Air, so there is no risk to testing it out to see what kind of speeds and latency you can get at your address.AT&T Internet Air FAQs
What kind of internet is AT&T Internet Air?
AT&T Internet Air is a fixed wireless internet service using a 5G connection, similar to T-Mobile Home Internet and Verizon 5G Home Internet. No direct cables or line of sight to a nearby tower are required for service.
How fast is AT&T Internet Air?
AT&T Internet Air advertises a speed range of 90 to 300Mbps down and 8 to 30Mbps up. It may not be the fastest, but it's a slight improvement from the speeds it previously offered, 72-225Mbps down and 10 to 30Mbps up. Actual home speeds will vary by address. In addition, your connection may be impacted by network congestion. According to AT&T's website, "during periods of congestion, these customers may experience reduced data speeds and increased latency as compared to other customers using the same cell site."
Is AT&T Internet Air good for gaming?
AT&T Internet Air speeds (90 to 300Mbps) and latency (30 to 65ms) should comfortably support online gaming. Fixed wireless service is susceptible to speed and connection quality fluctuations, especially during peak usage times and instances of heavy network congestion. Additionally, AT&T may throttle speeds for a short period if your activity significantly contributes to network congestion, which may interfere with your ability to game online.In short, AT&T Internet Air can support online gaming, but lag and insufficient speeds may periodically present a problem.
Can I take AT&T Internet Air on the go?
No, AT&T Internet Air is a fixed home internet service. You may move your router around your home to improve connection quality, but taking your router with you to another location away from your address is not permitted.
Home Internet Guides
Internet Providers by City
Best Internet Providers in Los Angeles
Best Internet Providers in New York City
Best Internet Providers in Chicago
Best Internet Providers in San Francisco
Best Internet Providers in Seattle
Best Internet Providers in Houston
Best Internet Providers in San Diego
Best Internet Providers in Denver
Best Internet Providers in Charlotte NC
Internet Providers and Services
Google Fiber Internet Review
Xfinity vs Verizon Fios
Verizon 5G vs. T-Mobile Home Internet
Verizon Internet Review
Xfinity Internet Review
Best Rural Internet
Best Cheap Internet and TV Bundles
Best Speed Tests
AT&T Home Internet Review
Best Satellite Internet
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile Home Internet Review
Best Internet Providers
Frontier Internet Review
Internet Routers
Best Mesh Wi-Fi Routers
Eero 6 Plus Review
TP-Link Review
Nest Wi-Fi vs. Google Wi-Fi
Best Wi-Fi Extender
Best Wi-Fi 6 Routers
Best Wi-Fi Routers
Helpful Internet Resources
What is 5G Home Internet?
Home Internet Cheat Sheet
Your ISP May Be Throttling Your Internet Speed
How to Switch ISPs
Internet Connection Types
Internet for Apartments
Top 10 Tips for Wi-Fi Security
How to Save Money on Your Monthly Internet Bill
How Much Internet Speed Do You Need?
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Tell us your address to view what’s available
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home
Enter your address
Why do we ask for your address?
Sometimes a provider is available in your Zip code, but not at your exact address See what exact plans are available at your home Privacy Policy
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Continue
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call (866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Enter your address to view what's available near you
Why do we ask for your address?
We ask for your address to help pinpoint which providers and plans are available in your area.
Continue
Privacy Policy
Prefer to speak with an expert live? Call
(866) 671-3650 for availability in your area.
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.