Health : Targetskip to main contentskip to footerTarget Circle™Target Circle™ CardTarget Circle 360™Registry & Wish ListWeekly AdFind StoresCategoriesDealsNew & featuredPickup & deliverysearchHealthTargetHealthHealth DealsNutritionVitamins & SupplementsHealth & WellnessKids’ Health & WellbeingMedicines & TreatmentsShow all 24Self-care stock-up for collegeBestsellers for your college routines.Drive Up is fast, easy & always free—now featuring Starbucks & free returns* Learn moreNew & featuredNew ArrivalsBest SellersTravel SizesSelf-care for CollegeGet back to routines with great dealsBOGO25BOGO 25% off
select Goli Nutrition gummies with BOGO25BOGO 25% off
select vitamins & nutrition items with BOGO25BOGO 25% off
Premier Protein powders & nutritional shakes with BOGO25BOGO 25% off
OLLY products with Reset your fall routineFind all the essentials for mind & body wellness.Protein SnacksFuel your goals & satisfy your cravings.Power up your routineProtein picks across bars, shakes & powders that fit your lifestyle.Vitamins & SupplementsYour go-tos for daily wellness, from A to Zinc.New arrivals to watch out forshopNutrition just leveled upExplore the latest arrivals from top brands.The latest in menopause careMeet Bonafide: clinically tested, hormone-free care for women’s changing needs.Now in orbit: Space Camp lip care Don’t fall for allergiesAllergy relief to help you enjoy the fall season.Play it cool for cold & flu seasonThe right picks to keep you prepared for the sniffles.  Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...Loading...SponsoredBrands we loveup&up™Olly Nature MadeHoney PotAlwaysQuest NutritionTarget OpticalSchedule an eye exam, get contacts or find a new pair of eye-catching frames.Warby Parker at TargetWarby Parker shop-in-shops are now open in select Target stores.PharmacyPrescriptions online & on-the-go. Shop Target for your pharmacy & medical needs at great prices.ClinicGet all the care you need without making a clinic appointment. Open 7 days a week at your local Target.Trending Searchesstool softenertylenol pmoil of oregano with black seed oilcough syrupfetal dopplerathlete's foot creammethylfolatetylenol arthritisolly sleep gummiescough syrupShow all 150 HealthLooking after your overall health and well-being is essential. Whether it’s getting your nutrition or finding a solution to a particular health issue, living a healthier life is all about finding the right balance. At Target, we have all the resources you need to keep you and your family safe and healthy. From pepper sprays to massagers and heartburn relief medicines, you will find everything you need. Be sure to check out our range of resources available in stores and online, including target clinic, target optical, hsa stores and target pharmacy. In today’s world, eating a healthy, balanced diet can be a challenge. Find a range of dietary supplements, including vitamin E, vitamin b6, vitamin B vital proteins collagen water, metamucil fiber, hair vitamins, nopaline, vitamins for hair growth, ferrous sulfate, vitamins for skin,
rae vitamins vital proteins,  collagen gummies, collagen peptides,  multi collagen protein, gummy iron supplements, gummy vitamins with iron, iron gummies, mane choice hair vitamins, neuriva, multivitamin for women, Zarbee’s products like Zarbee’s immune support and Zarbee’s melatonin gummies. A daily multivitamin is part of an overall healthy lifestyle and can help adults get the recommended amount of key vitamins and minerals. Boost immunity, muscle function and energy with a variety of centrum silver chewables, magnesium, calm magnesium powder, magnesium gummies, emergen c immune plus and more. These gummies and powders make the perfect alternative for people who have difficulty swallowing tablets and can be taken without water. Also look through airborne gummies, biotin gummies, apple cider vinegar gummies, slimming gummies and vitamin d gummies, all from brands like Vitafusion, Nature Made, up & up, Olly and bedoyecta, will give you the minerals and nutrients your body needs. We also have the best probiotics for women and men like garden of life probiotics, olly probiotic, nordic naturals omega 3, rainbow light men’s one multivitamin as well as magnesium supplements from trusted brands like Garden of Life and Nature’s Bounty that will support your busy lifestyle. De-stress and get a good night’s sleep with doxylamine succinate, olly sleep, stress ball gummies, vitafusion melatonin and excedrin tension headache. The unique blend of active ingredients work together to calm your mind and promote restful sleep so you wake up feeling refreshed. Also find
pure zzzs, calm gummies, nature’s bounty sleep and liquid iv. Look through a range of women-specific products that will give you the right nutrition to keep you healthy. Choose from olly women’s multivitamin, rae wellness, rainbow light women’s one, fertility tea and citrucel powder. These help the ladies stay active and healthy. Also find products like
estroven, postnatal vitamins, diuretic, rephresh pro b and pamprin . Keep your weight loss and fitness goals on track with nutrisystem products, alli starter pack weight loss aids, hydroxycut, weight watchers scale, nuun hydration sports drink tabs, metabolife weight-loss supplements, aloha protein powder, tone it up protein powder, vega protein, greens drink mix, and protein bars from zone perfect, balance bar, oatmega, one bar, rx bars, luna protein, orgain protein powder, think thin bars and thinkthin. Switch to cleaner eating alternatives like power crunch bars, quest chips, pbfit, atkins bars and metamucil wafers.
Perfect for when you need an energizing push for your workout, find a collection of, alani nu pre workout, c4 pre workout, bcaa powder, and muscle milk. Great for an everyday snack, protein boost, or post-workout recovery look through a range of protein powders. Choose from premier protein pumpkin spice, garden of life protein, quest protein powder, isopure protein and kos protein powder. Looking for the perfect protein powder that you will love? Look through a range of flavored protein powders like chocolate protein powder, premier protein shakes, ,
vega sport protein powder,
vanilla protein powder, premier protein powder and more. Stir, mix, blend, or shake this powder into smoothies, coffee, milk, or water to enjoy! Whether you are on the go, need a snack halfway up the trail, or crave a pick-me-up before your workout, all you need is a yummy protein bar. Browse through a collection of think protein bars,
pure protein bars, protein one bars, quest hero bars and fit crunch bars that are super delicious. Want to be prepared for taking care of your little ones when they’re sick? Our range of Pedialyte, cough syrups, dramamine n eustachi nausea relief, vicks vaposteam cough suppressant and a variety of cold medicines and calendula first-aid cream will ensure that your kids’ health is looked after. Build their immunity with zinc for kids and vitamin c for kids. Treat allergies from dust, pet dander, mold and tree pollen with our range of allergy medicines by brands from Allegra to Zyrtec. Searching for a cleanser that helps kill bacteria and germs on open wounds? Look through our range of antiseptic creams, antibacterial hand wipes and foams that will protect you and your family wherever you are. Keep basic first-aid and pain-relief handy with bandaids, tegaderm, gauze, biofreeze, tiger balm, bengay, qunol turmeric, flanax, biofreeze roll on. Preventing infection in minor cuts, scrapes and burns is super important. Look through a range of products that are a dependable medicine cabinet staple. Choose from saline wound wash, polysporin, isopropyl alcohol, kt tape, isopropyl alcohol 70, alcohol swabs and more. Ensure your infant is in good health with allergy medicine for infants. Keep allergies away and kids at play with  baby allergy medicine, baby d drops, ddrops, gas drops for baby and more. Keep you baby happy with a range of
baby scale, baby shusher, hatch sound machine, infant stool softener,  baby melatonin, little remedies, nosefrida baby nose aspirator, little remedies gas drops, poly vi sol, nuby teething tablets and cough baby, and boost your breast milk supply with motherlove and upspring milkflow breastfeeding supplements. Keep your kids in good health as they get older with zarbee’s elderberry kids, kids melatonin gummies, fiber gummies for kids, kids disposable face mask, and kids theraflu. Concerned you or your child are running a temperature or catching a cold? Be sure to have a braun ear thermometer, mucinex for kids, nose frida and an exergen temporal artery thermometer on hand. Get relief from cold and flu symptoms and bring wellness to your entire family with a range of products like cold sore treatment,
crane humidifier, navage, cold eeze and dolo neurobion. Prevent dryness caused by allergies or help prevent nasal irritation with neilmed sinus rinse, mucinex sinus max, tylenol cold and flu, tylenol extra strength or dayquil. If you’re looking to start a family, we have everything you need to get started, like clearblue fertility monitor, early pregnancy test, premama fertility supplements, nature made prenatal tablets, olly prenatal, vitafusion prenatal, preseed personal lube, flavored lube, replens, ky jelly, clearblue ovulation test and the stork otc conception kit. Control morning sickness with preggie pops or bonine, and prepare for your little one with rainbow light prenatal one prenatal vitamins, smarty pants prenatal vitamins and prenatal vitamins. Take control of your sexual health with our selection of contraception, birth control products and other sexual health items like plan b target, ky duration, plus one toys, ky intense, trojan hot spot, lelo sona cruise 2, trojan nirvana, trojan pulse, trojan ring, trojan tandem, take action pill, magic wand rechargeable vibrator. Find a range of products made from high quality, super soft and body safe silicone. They are ultra-hygienic and easy to clean. Choose from a collection of plusone items like the plus one vibrator, personal massager, Trojan vibrating ring, lelo sona, lelo sona cruise, trojan condoms, trojan enz, nirvana condoms and promescent sexual performance enhancer. Feel confident and healthy with odor eliminating rephresh pH-balancing gel, honey pot boric acid, summer’s eve cleansing wash and feminine hygiene products including cora pads, cora tampons, always infinity, l organic pads, l organic tampons, l pads, l tampons, ziggy cup, organic pads, organic panty liners and organic tampons. Keep pace with your busy lifestyle without missing a beat with our collection of heart rate monitors and omron blood pressure monitor. They’re the perfect accessory to keep track of your health. Treat pain in legs and backs with our selection ankle braces, back braces, rollator walker, bathroom bench and copper fit energy socks to provide gentle support and help relieve pain. For when you’re on the go, use the go girl female urination device. And if you ever need uti medicines, check our range for azo uti and more. Where to buy scrubs? We have navy blue scrubs, nrg scrubs and more. Keeping skin healthy is an important part of holistic health and well-being. Keep your skin healthy and soft with calamine lotion,  amope pedi electronic foot file, and soothe dry eyes with refresh eye drops, ocusoft, refresh mega 3 lubricant eye drops and stye eye drops. Help you hair grow faster and better with hairfinity. Soothe and relieve dry, rough skin with medicated aquaphor spray, treat chafing with body glide balm,  monistat chafing gel, and relieve itchiness with hibiclens and benadryl cream. Reduce the appearance of scars with cicatricure, scar away, mederma and witch hazel. Use goicoechea calming lotion to soothe tired legs, nourish skin and reduce the appearance of varicose veins. We also have first check home drug test kit, at home drug test, everlywell tests, 23 and me ancestry and health genetic test. Browse through our broad selection of health products to find the right products for you.Show moreSponsoredGet top deals, latest trends, and more.Email addressSign upPrivacy policyFooter