Crisis in the Middle East
Latest
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
U.S.
Epstein's Cellmate
Macron Interview
World
Politics
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Entertainment
Crime
Sports
Watch CBS News
Crisis in the Middle East
U.K, Australia and Canada recognize Palestinian state despite U.S. opposition
In response, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told Western countries they were giving Hamas a "reward" for recognizing a Palestinian state.
11H ago
Macron: Recognition of Palestinian state necessary to combat Hamas
Secretary of State Marco Rubio criticized France's decision to recognize a Palestinian state, calling it "reckless" — French President Emmanuel Macron told CBS News the response was "excessive."
Sep 19
U.N. commission concludes Israel is committing genocide in Gaza
Experts commissioned by the U.N. Human Rights Council say Israeli forces are "continuing to commit" genocide in Gaza. Israel calls the report Hamas lies.
Sep 16
Israel's military says Gaza City ground offensive is underway
Israel's military says troops have "begun pushing into the heart of Gaza City," renewing its call for thousands of war-weary civilians to evacuate.
Sep 16
Rubio meets Netanyahu in Israel as U.S. ally Qatar gathers Arab neighbors
As Trump urges Israel to be "very careful" after a strike in U.S.-allied Qatar, Netanyahu calls Rubio's visit "a clear message that America stands with Israel."
Sep 15
U.N. assembly votes for two-state solution to Israel-Palestinian conflict
The United States, Israel's closest ally, reiterated its opposition to the New York Declaration and the General Assembly resolution endorsing implementation of a two-state solution.
Sep 13
Netanyahu appears to shirk Trump's warning about new strikes in Qatar
Trump says he assured Qatar's leader that Israeli strikes against Hamas in Doha wouldn't be repeated. Netanyahu has threatened to do just that.
Sep 12
Second Gaza flotilla aid boat attacked by drone, activist group says
An activist group says two of its boats taking part in a flotilla trying to reach war-torn Gaza were attacked by drones in two days.
Sep 11
Qatar condemns "cowardly Israeli strike" targeting Hamas leaders in Doha
U.S. ally Qatar condemns Israel for strikes targeting Hamas leaders in its capital city Doha, calling them "a blatant violation of all international laws and norms."
Sep 9
Activists says Gaza aid boat attacked by drone in Tunisia
A group sending aid boats to Gaza in defiance of Israel's blockade says a drone "dropped a bomb" on one of its vessels in Tunisia.
Sep 9
Pig heads found in front of several Paris area mosques
French police launched an investigation after pig heads were found outside several mosques in the Paris region, the city's police chief said, adding more could be discovered.
Sep 9
Palestinian gunmen kill 6 people in attack on Jerusalem bus stop
Israeli officials say two gunmen opened fire on a Jerusalem bus stop. The shooting killed six people and leaving seven others in serious condition.
Sep 8
Israel's southern airport hit by drone fired by Yemen's Houthis
At least one of the drones slipped through Israel's defense system and crashed into the passenger terminal at the Ramon International Airport.
Sep 7
Almost 300 people reported killed in Gaza since experts declared genocide
Health officials say Israel's growing offensive has killed at least 287 Gazans since international scholars, including Holocaust experts, called the war genocidal.
Sep 3
U.K. embassy in Cairo closed amid spat over pro-Palestinian protests
Egypt's government has removed security barriers around the U.K. Embassy in Cairo amid a dispute over protest action directed at Egyptian diplomatic facilities in Europe.
Sep 3
Israel says it killed Hamas spokesperson as offensive ramps up in Gaza City
Abu Obeida, the longtime spokesperson for Hamas' Qassam Brigades, was killed by an Israeli airstrike in Gaza over the weekend, Israel's defense minister claims.
Aug 31
Gaza aid flotilla with Greta Thunberg, others turns around due to bad weather
The Global Sumud Flotilla will try to break the Israeli blockade of the Palestinian territory and bring humanitarian aid, food, water and medicine to Gaza as Israel steps up its offensive in Gaza City.
Sep 1
Palestinian president's visa to the U.S. revoked ahead of key U.N. meetings
The move is the latest in a series of steps the Trump administration has taken to target Palestinians with visa restrictions.
Aug 30
Israel will soon slow or halt aid into parts of northern Gaza
Israel's military said that it had launched the "initial stages" of the planned offensive to seize Gaza City, declaring the Palestinian territory's biggest population center a "dangerous combat zone."
Aug 30
Israel says 2 hostages' bodies returned as Gaza City offensive begins
Israel's military says the "initial stages" of a controversial offensive to seize control of Gaza's biggest city have begun.
Aug 29
U.K. bars Israeli officials from defense trade show, citing Gaza war
British government calls Israel's "decision to further escalate" the Gaza war wrong, and Israeli government officials from attending a defense trade show.
Aug 29
Israel says strike that killed journalists targeted a camera used by Hamas
Israel's military says a strike that killed 20 people at a hospital, including 5 journalists, targeted a camera purportedly used by Hamas to observe troops.
Aug 26
5 journalists among those killed in Israeli strike on Gaza hospital
Health officials in Gaza say an Israeli strike on Nasser Hospital has killed at least 20 people, including 5 journalists.
Aug 25
Israeli forces kill 4 aid seekers near Gaza City, hospital and witnesses say
A U.N.-backed initiative on Friday declared a famine in Gaza City.
Aug 24
Israeli strikes in Gaza kill at least 33; famine announcement raises pressure
Hospital officials say Palestinians sheltering in tents or seeking scarce food aid were among at least 33 people killed by Israeli strikes in Gaza.
Aug 23
Show More
World
Sarah Ferguson dropped by U.K. charities over reported Epstein email
Newspapers in the U.K. published an email that Prince Andrew's ex-wife Sarah Ferguson reportedly wrote to the late convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.
6H ago
Egyptian president pardons prominent activist after he spent years behind bars
The United Nations had repeatedly called for Alaa Abdel-Fattah's immediate release and called his detention arbitrary.
8H ago
14 killed in prison clashes in Ecuador as some inmates escape
Ecuador has seen violence spiral in recent years as enemy gangs with ties to Mexican and Colombian cartels vie for control.
7H ago
Zelenskyy seeks "robust action" at U.N. as Putin's war tests NATO borders
Ukraine's leader to push for "robust action" against Russia at U.N. gathering, as America's NATO partners accuse Putin of dangerous incursions, and lies.
12H ago
Man charged with murder in killing of teen TikTok star
A man accused of shooting dead a 17-year-old TikTok star at her home in Pakistan after she had repeatedly rejected his advances was formally indicted.
13H ago
Tourist mistaken for wanted fugitive spends nearly a month in prison
The tourist found out he shares a name with a wanted criminal, previously sentenced to two years in prison in Italy for aggravated theft.
14H ago
Boat destroyed by U.S. held 1,000 kilos of cocaine, Dominican Republic says
Authorities in the Dominican Republic said they have confiscated cocaine transported by a speedboat that was destroyed recently by the U.S. Navy.
13H ago
Taliban rejects Trump's bid to take over Afghan air base once controlled by U.S.
President Trump is renewing his call to reestablish a U.S. presence at Bagram, even saying "we're talking now to Afghanistan" about the matter.
Sep 21
Brazilians protest bill that could lead to pardon for Bolsonaro, allies
The bill that would make it harder to arrest or launch criminal proceedings against lawmakers passed the lower house on Tuesday, prompting Brazilians to protest.
Sep 21
More in World
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
Trump Announcement Today
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
X
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
More from CBS News
Newsletters
Podcasts
Download Our App
Brand Studio
Sitemap
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue