The best Bluetooth trackers of 2025: Expert tested | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Updated on: September 16, 2025 at 9:30 AM PDT
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
Updated on: September 16, 2025 at 9:30 AM PDT
The best Bluetooth trackers you can buy: Expert recommended
From backpacks to keychains, the best Bluetooth trackers make it easy to keep tabs on your essentials at work, home, and school.
Written by
Kerry Wan, Managing Editor, ReviewsManaging Editor, Reviews
and
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Reviewed by
Kayla Solino
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Apple AirTag | Best Bluetooth tracker overall
Best Bluetooth tracker overall
Apple AirTag
View now View at Amazon Chipolo One Point | Best tracker for Android users
Best tracker for Android users
Chipolo One Point
View now View at Amazon SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card | Best Bluetooth tracker for wallets
Best Bluetooth tracker for wallets
SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card
View now View at SwitchBot
Tile Pro | Best Bluetooth tracker for long-distance tracking
Best Bluetooth tracker for long-distance tracking
Tile Pro
View now View at Amazon Samsung Galaxy SmartTag2 | Best Bluetooth tracker for Samsung users
Best Bluetooth tracker for Samsung users
Samsung Galaxy SmartTag2
View now View at Amazon Chipolo Bluetooth tracker for iOS and Android | Best water-resistant alternative
Best water-resistant alternative
Chipolo Bluetooth tracker for iOS and Android
View now View at Amazon Tile Mate | Best budget alternative
Best budget alternative
Tile Mate
View now View at Amazon Tile Slim | Best wallet alternative
Best wallet alternative
Tile Slim
View now View at Amazon Pebblebee Clip Tracker | Best alternative to AirTag and Android trackers
Best alternative to AirTag and Android trackers
Pebblebee Clip Tracker
View now View at Amazon
Show more (6 items)
Traveling between home, school, friends' homes, and the grocery store means ample opportunities to lose your stuff. Bluetooth trackers erase this worry by attaching to almost anything -- especially the most misplaced items like keys, wallets, and phones. These devices make it quick and easy to get a location on your belongings.We tested the top models on iOS and Android to find the most reliable trackers with the strongest signals and longest battery life at reasonable prices.Get more in-depth ZDNET tech coverage: Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome and Chromium browsers.What is the best Bluetooth tracker right now?Our pick for the best Bluetooth tracker overall is the Apple AirTag with its UWB-powered precision tracking, replaceable battery, and access to Apple's widely supported Find My network. If you're not an Apple user, Chipolo One Point is our top tracker pick for Android users. The device offers real-time tracking, a replaceable battery, and Google's Find My Device compatibility. Also: How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you
Sort by
All
The best Bluetooth trackers of 2025 Show less
View now at AmazonView now at AppleView now at Best Buy The Apple AirTag is designed to work seamlessly with Apple devices like iPhones, iPads, and MacBooks. This coin-sized tracker uses a built-in U1 ultra-wideband chip for Precision Finding and Apple's extensive Find My network to find your missing items. Review: Apple AirTag The device-software combo makes it easy to locate anything attached to an AirTag. If you open the Find My app on any Apple device and select the appropriate tag, the selected AirTag will beep, helping you to find a missing item if it's nearby. Though it's slim enough to fit in pockets and bags, the AirTag lacks a built-in loop. This means you'll have to buy a separate accessory to attach it to your bag or a pet's collar. This potential extra purchase is a common complaint among buyers. However, the holders come in many stylish shapes for a myriad of uses and tastes. I've bought wristbands for my kids to wear their AirTags at the park and keychain holders for my car keys.Also: The best AirTag accessories you can buy The AirTag's battery is rated to last one year and can be replaced with another CR2032 unit afterward. One
sells for $29, and a  is typically priced at $99. Keep in mind that the four-pack is often discounted as part of limited-time deals. Apple AirTag Features: Price: $29 Battery life: Over a year | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Free | Connectivity: Bluetooth, UWB, NFC, Find My Network
Pros
Precision tracking
Find My network is dependable
Replaceable battery
Cons
No Android compatibility
Accessory required to attach to certain items
Easily scratched
Apple AirTag Best Bluetooth tracker overall
The Apple AirTag is designed to work seamlessly with Apple devices like iPhones, iPads, and MacBooks. This coin-sized tracker uses a built-in U1 ultra-wideband chip for Precision Finding and Apple's extensive Find My network to find your missing items. Review: Apple AirTag The device-software combo makes it easy to locate anything attached to an AirTag. If you open the Find My app on any Apple device and select the appropriate tag, the selected AirTag will beep, helping you to find a missing item if it's nearby. Though it's slim enough to fit in pockets and bags, the AirTag lacks a built-in loop. This means you'll have to buy a separate accessory to attach it to your bag or a pet's collar. This potential extra purchase is a common complaint among buyers. However, the holders come in many stylish shapes for a myriad of uses and tastes. I've bought wristbands for my kids to wear their AirTags at the park and keychain holders for my car keys.Also: The best AirTag accessories you can buy The AirTag's battery is rated to last one year and can be replaced with another CR2032 unit afterward. One
sells for $29, and a  is typically priced at $99. Keep in mind that the four-pack is often discounted as part of limited-time deals. Apple AirTag Features: Price: $29 Battery life: Over a year | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Free | Connectivity: Bluetooth, UWB, NFC, Find My Network
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon The Chipolo One Point is hands-down the best Android version of an AirTag money can buy. This $24 tracker is a keyfob-sized device similar to a Tile and features a replaceable CR2032 battery that can last up to one year. Review: Chipolo One PointZDNET's Adrian Kingsley-Hughes tested and raved in his review of the Chipolo One Point."If you're an Android user who's been jealous of iPhone users having AirTags, this is your chance to bring that feeling to an end," Kingsley-Hughes said. "I've tested the finding capability of these Chipolo finders, and they are super accurate, with the ability to locate the tags when at a distance -- such as hidden in a plant pot on a street or when stuffed down the back of a couch."Chipolo One Point Features: Price: $24 | Battery life: Up to one year | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: None | Connectivity: Bluetooth, Google Find My Device
Pros
Real-time location tracking
Replaceable battery
Highly reliable
Cons
Only works with Android
Chipolo One Point Best tracker for Android users
The Chipolo One Point is hands-down the best Android version of an AirTag money can buy. This $24 tracker is a keyfob-sized device similar to a Tile and features a replaceable CR2032 battery that can last up to one year. Review: Chipolo One PointZDNET's Adrian Kingsley-Hughes tested and raved in his review of the Chipolo One Point."If you're an Android user who's been jealous of iPhone users having AirTags, this is your chance to bring that feeling to an end," Kingsley-Hughes said. "I've tested the finding capability of these Chipolo finders, and they are super accurate, with the ability to locate the tags when at a distance -- such as hidden in a plant pot on a street or when stuffed down the back of a couch."Chipolo One Point Features: Price: $24 | Battery life: Up to one year | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: None | Connectivity: Bluetooth, Google Find My Device
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at SwitchBot The SwitchBot Wallet Tracker is a card-shaped Bluetooth tracker that works exclusively with the Apple Find My network. It's the best wallet tracker I've tested yet, and costs about $25. The device works like an AirTag, but has a slim, flat shape that allows it to fit in more places and is perfect for wallets. The battery lasts up to three years opposed to an AirTag's one year. In addition, it sports an IP67 waterproof rating and a loud customizable alarm, so you can change how it sounds from the SwitchBot app on your phone.Review: SwitchBot Wallet TrackerLike an AirTag, the SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card lets you know when you've left it behind to prevent permanent loss. You can use the Find My app on your iPhone to quickly search for it in your surroundings or see a map for its location. You can also use the Tracker Card to ring your iPhone when you can't find it, even if it's on silent mode. SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card Features: Price: $25 | Battery life: Up to three years | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Free | Connectivity: Bluetooth, Apple Find My network
Pros
Slim design ideal for wallets
Alarm feature
Apple Find My integration
Cons
No ultra wideband tracking
Battery isn't replaceable
Not compatible with Android
SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card Best Bluetooth tracker for wallets
The SwitchBot Wallet Tracker is a card-shaped Bluetooth tracker that works exclusively with the Apple Find My network. It's the best wallet tracker I've tested yet, and costs about $25. The device works like an AirTag, but has a slim, flat shape that allows it to fit in more places and is perfect for wallets. The battery lasts up to three years opposed to an AirTag's one year. In addition, it sports an IP67 waterproof rating and a loud customizable alarm, so you can change how it sounds from the SwitchBot app on your phone.Review: SwitchBot Wallet TrackerLike an AirTag, the SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card lets you know when you've left it behind to prevent permanent loss. You can use the Find My app on your iPhone to quickly search for it in your surroundings or see a map for its location. You can also use the Tracker Card to ring your iPhone when you can't find it, even if it's on silent mode. SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card Features: Price: $25 | Battery life: Up to three years | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Free | Connectivity: Bluetooth, Apple Find My network
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Walmart The Tile Pro's tracking range extends to 500 feet, double the range of Apple's AirTag and the Samsung SmartTag. It also outreaches its sibling, the Tile Mate. Its elongated form houses a larger-than-average speaker for a more discernible alarm, which is particularly convenient for its tracking range. The device also has an IP67 to protect it from dust and rain, as well as a replaceable CR2032 battery. It also has a hole at the top of the tile, so you can easily attach the tag to your keychain. A Tile Pro tag costs $25, which is well worth the money if you want the most extended tracking range. That said, unreliable charging remains one of Tile Pro users' biggest complaints. The Tile Pro works with the Tile app, Amazon Alexa, and Google Home.Tile Pro Features: Price: $25 | Battery life: Up to one year | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Premium subscription available | Connectivity: Bluetooth
Pros
500-foot range
High waterproof rating
Compatible with iOS and Android devices
Cons
No ultra wideband precision tracking
Slightly larger than other tags
Tile Pro Best Bluetooth tracker for long-distance tracking
The Tile Pro's tracking range extends to 500 feet, double the range of Apple's AirTag and the Samsung SmartTag. It also outreaches its sibling, the Tile Mate. Its elongated form houses a larger-than-average speaker for a more discernible alarm, which is particularly convenient for its tracking range. The device also has an IP67 to protect it from dust and rain, as well as a replaceable CR2032 battery. It also has a hole at the top of the tile, so you can easily attach the tag to your keychain. A Tile Pro tag costs $25, which is well worth the money if you want the most extended tracking range. That said, unreliable charging remains one of Tile Pro users' biggest complaints. The Tile Pro works with the Tile app, Amazon Alexa, and Google Home.Tile Pro Features: Price: $25 | Battery life: Up to one year | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Premium subscription available | Connectivity: Bluetooth
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Samsung The Samsung SmartTag2 is at its best when paired with a Samsung Galaxy smartphone. The Galaxy SmartTag2 is a formidable Bluetooth tracker with a loud speaker, a replaceable battery, and a rugged build. Also: The best Samsung phones The SmartTag2 Bluetooth tracker is thinner than its predecessor, with a bigger keyring and a metal insert inside that provides greater durability. Beyond its new design, the SmartTag 2 increases its battery life to 500 days. It also has features like the Power Saving Mode, Lost Mode, and an improved Compass View over its prior iteration. Customer reviews are mixed on battery life, but the SmartTag has a replaceable CR2032 battery.Unlike the picks above, the SmartTag2 can also trigger smart home automation. Press the tag to turn on lights, kickstart air conditioning, or even open the garage door. However, it's only compatible with appliances in the SmartThings ecosystem. This is more limited than the Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple Home Kit ecosystems.Samsung Galaxy SmartTag2 features: Price: $20 | Battery life: Up to two years | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Free | Connectivity: Bluetooth, GPS
Pros
Doubles as smart home button
Integrated speaker
Rugged design
Cons
Only compatible with Galaxy phones
Bulky design
Samsung Galaxy SmartTag2 Best Bluetooth tracker for Samsung users
The Samsung SmartTag2 is at its best when paired with a Samsung Galaxy smartphone. The Galaxy SmartTag2 is a formidable Bluetooth tracker with a loud speaker, a replaceable battery, and a rugged build. Also: The best Samsung phones The SmartTag2 Bluetooth tracker is thinner than its predecessor, with a bigger keyring and a metal insert inside that provides greater durability. Beyond its new design, the SmartTag 2 increases its battery life to 500 days. It also has features like the Power Saving Mode, Lost Mode, and an improved Compass View over its prior iteration. Customer reviews are mixed on battery life, but the SmartTag has a replaceable CR2032 battery.Unlike the picks above, the SmartTag2 can also trigger smart home automation. Press the tag to turn on lights, kickstart air conditioning, or even open the garage door. However, it's only compatible with appliances in the SmartThings ecosystem. This is more limited than the Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple Home Kit ecosystems.Samsung Galaxy SmartTag2 features: Price: $20 | Battery life: Up to two years | Real-time tracking: Yes | Monthly cost: Free | Connectivity: Bluetooth, GPS
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less What is the best Bluetooth tracker?
The Apple AirTag is the best Bluetooth tracker for its Precision Finding tech, long battery life, and access to Apple's dependable Find My Network. We also reviewed other great options to fit a variety of needs. The Tile Pro's 500-foot range is fantastic if you want a long-distance tracker, while the Chipolo One is perfect if you're an Android user looking for a reliable tracker. This table can help you compare the best Bluetooth trackers based on pricing and special features:Bluetooth trackersZDNET's takePriceSpecial featuresApple AirTagBest overall$29Precision Finding, one-year battery lifeChipolo One PointBest for Android users$24Google Find My Device, splashproofSwitchBot Wallet Tracker CardBest for wallets$25Compact size fits in most wallets, up to three-year batteryTile ProBest for long-distance tracking$25Always-on connectivity, 400-foot rangeSamsung Galaxy SmartTag2Best for Samsung users$20Compatible with smart home devices, scratch-resistant design*Price at time of writing. Please note that prices vary based on retailer and available promotions, sales, or discounts.
Show more
Which Bluetooth tracker is right for you?
The main factor to consider when shopping for a Bluetooth tracker is compatibility, as the AirTag and SwitchBot Wallet Tracker Card only function with Apple devices. For more versatility, we'd recommend looking into Tile's Bluetooth offerings.It also helps to know what you're tracking. Coin-shaped trackers will work for keys and smaller items, but we recommend card-shaped options for belongings like wallets and passports.Choose this Bluetooth tracker...If you want…Apple AirTagBest overall for precise location tracking and a battery that'll last a year.Chipolo One PointThe perfect tracker for Android devices with a replaceable battery.SwitchBot Wallet Tracker CardA thin Apple-integrated tracker for your wallet.Tile ProLong-distance tracking with a range of 500 feet and a loud alarm.Samsung Galaxy SmartTag2A Samsung-compatible tracker that can double as a smart home button.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing a Bluetooth tracker
Our best picks tick all four boxes and then some, but all are distinguished by unique selling points that make each ideal for specific uses. If you want a Bluetooth tracker on your pet's collar or need one that works with your Samsung ecosystem, look for models that best support these features. When selecting the best Bluetooth trackers, we considered the following key factors. Precision: How accurate and consistent the device is at finding our items, from close and far distances.Battery life: What's the point in investing in a Bluetooth tracker when it can die on you when you most need it? Within the list, we considered battery life and noted each device's durability so you can confidently make your pick.  Speaker volume: Nothing is worse than knowing an object is nearby, but you can't locate it. This is where the speaker volume comes in: If a tracker's volume is too low, you won't be able to find your device. If a tracker has a loud volume, you can at least hear it beeping so you can follow the sound. Tracking range: Bluetooth devices like these trackers rely on signal strength (RSSI) to estimate the device's locations or items. We considered the range to determine how reliable these devices can be in a time of need.
Show more
How we test Bluetooth trackers
At ZDNET, we follow a comprehensive testing method to evaluate Bluetooth trackers and provide insights into their performance and reliability to help buyers choose the best one for their circumstances.We test Bluetooth trackers by noting the entire experience, from unboxing and setup to features and performance. This involves evaluating whether the location tracking for a Bluetooth tracker is accurate when compared to its actual location, monitoring signal strength when trying to find a tracker, and assessing how reliably it connects and reconnects to your main device, which is commonly a smartphone.During testing, we also evaluate the maximum signal range, the app experience, and the effectiveness of proximity alerts, measure the battery life, perform drop tests, and test how each Bluetooth tracker performs in areas with a lot of Bluetooth interference.
Show more
Latest news on Bluetooth trackersAlthough the anticipated AirTag 2 didn't make an appearance at Apple's September event, we could still see the next iteration of the original Bluetooth tracker this year. Pebblebee's Clip just got a safety boost with a new Alert Live tool that lets you share your real-time location in an emergency. Read more about the upgrade here.FAQs on Bluetooth trackers
What if my Bluetooth tracker runs out of battery?
Most Bluetooth trackers have replaceable or rechargeable batteries. If a tracker lacks a replaceable battery, its manufacturer often incentivizes trade-ins with discounts. Many batteries last between one and two years. Your manufacturer will provide this information in the owner's manual and on its website so you can plan when to replace it.
Show more
How do Bluetooth trackers work?
A Bluetooth tracker either attaches to a personal item like a backpack, or it can reside inside an item like a wallet. Next, you enable location tracking by connecting the tracker via the manufacturer's app. This way you can have a visual of your item's location. Bluetooth trackers have a limited range, with an average of 200 to 300 feet. This means you must be within the signal range to receive accurate information. Some items, such as Wi-Fi speakers, might interfere with the signal, so use the devices in an area with less potential interference so you can receive the strongest signal.
Show more
What Bluetooth tracker has the longest range?
Both the Tile Pro and the Samsung Galaxy SmartTag 2 claim a maximum range of around 400 feet.
Show more
Latest updatesSeptember 2025: Performed minor editorial changes, verified product availability and prices, and added the latest Bluetooth tracker news.August 2025: Refreshed retail links and product pricing and edited to align with ZDNET's latest style guide.Other Bluetooth trackers to consider Show less
View now at Amazon The water-resistant Chipolo Bluetooth tracker alerts you to missing items through its app, emitting a 120-decibel sound. The device also digitally nudges you if you leave something behind, so you find your stuff before you lose it. If your Chipolo is out of range, you can check the app's map for its last known location. You can also set up voice commands for Google Assistant, Amazon Alexa, and Apple's Siri. The tracker is compatible with both Apple and Google phones. Chipolo has a two-year replacement coin battery and a 200-foot connection range.
Chipolo Bluetooth tracker for iOS and Android Best water-resistant alternative
The water-resistant Chipolo Bluetooth tracker alerts you to missing items through its app, emitting a 120-decibel sound. The device also digitally nudges you if you leave something behind, so you find your stuff before you lose it. If your Chipolo is out of range, you can check the app's map for its last known location. You can also set up voice commands for Google Assistant, Amazon Alexa, and Apple's Siri. The tracker is compatible with both Apple and Google phones. Chipolo has a two-year replacement coin battery and a 200-foot connection range.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at WalmartView now at B&H Photo-Video The Tile Mate attaches to your items and can be easily activated through the app. You can also use the device to make your phone ring, even if it's on silent. In addition, the Tile Mate sports an SOS alert, but you must have the Life360 app installed and a registered account. This tracker is compatible with iOS and Android. It has an impressive 350-foot range and an IP68 water-resistance rating. Unfortunately, the three-year battery isn't replaceable.
Tile Mate Best budget alternative
The Tile Mate attaches to your items and can be easily activated through the app. You can also use the device to make your phone ring, even if it's on silent. In addition, the Tile Mate sports an SOS alert, but you must have the Life360 app installed and a registered account. This tracker is compatible with iOS and Android. It has an impressive 350-foot range and an IP68 water-resistance rating. Unfortunately, the three-year battery isn't replaceable.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at B&H Photo-VideoView now at Target The Tile Slim's credit card-style design is perfect to slide in your wallet. There's no keyring hole like its sibling, the Tile Mate. If you want to attach it to anything, you could plausibly use a separate ID card holder keychain.  Like the Tile Mate, the Tile Slim helps you find your missing things through the app, can ring your silenced phone, and trigger an SOS feature through the Life360 app. The tracker has an IP68 water resistance rating, a 350-foot Bluetooth range, 104-decibel volume, and three-year non-replaceable battery.
Tile Slim Best wallet alternative
The Tile Slim's credit card-style design is perfect to slide in your wallet. There's no keyring hole like its sibling, the Tile Mate. If you want to attach it to anything, you could plausibly use a separate ID card holder keychain.  Like the Tile Mate, the Tile Slim helps you find your missing things through the app, can ring your silenced phone, and trigger an SOS feature through the Life360 app. The tracker has an IP68 water resistance rating, a 350-foot Bluetooth range, 104-decibel volume, and three-year non-replaceable battery.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon The Pebblebee Clip Tracker works with both Google's Find My Device and Apple's Find My network. You can get card, clip, or tag version of the tracker individually for $35 on Amazon.In addition to emitting a sound to help you find your items, the tracker has an LED light to make your search even easier. Pebblebee says the USB-C compatible rechargeable battery lasts for 12 months on a single charge. The water-resistant tracker also has a 500-foot range.
Pebblebee Clip Tracker Best alternative to AirTag and Android trackers
The Pebblebee Clip Tracker works with both Google's Find My Device and Apple's Find My network. You can get card, clip, or tag version of the tracker individually for $35 on Amazon.In addition to emitting a sound to help you find your items, the tracker has an LED light to make your search even easier. Pebblebee says the USB-C compatible rechargeable battery lasts for 12 months on a single charge. The water-resistant tracker also has a 500-foot range.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less For more, check out how to find out if an AirTag is tracking you, and why this ZDNET writer prefers Pebblebee over AirTags.
Further ZDNET Tech Coverage
Smartphones
Best Android phone
Best smartphone
Best Samsung phone
Best iPhone
Best rugged Phones
Best Google phone
Best foldable phone
Best flip phone
Best 5G phone
Best cheap phone
Best stylus phone
Best Motorola phone
Smartwatches
Best smartwatch
Best blood pressure watch
Best Garmin Watch
Best Apple watch
Best Android smartwatch
Best Apple Watch Ultra strap
Best waterproof smartwatch
Best kids smartwatch
Best cheap smartwatch
Best sports watch
Tablets
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Laptops
Best laptop overall
Best Linux laptop
Best laptop for graphic design
Best lightweight laptops
Best Lenovo laptop
Best budget gaming laptop
Best 15-inch laptop
Best laptop under $1000
Best Windows laptop
Best laptop for video editing
TVs
Best TV overall
Best 85-inch TV
Best 50-inch TV
Best Samsung TV
Best Sony TV
Best Roku TV
Best 40-inch TV
Best 75-inch TV
Best 32-inch TV
Best TV for PS5
Best OLED TV
Best Hisense TV
Other Tech Resources
Is Temu legit? Everything to know before placing an order
How to download YouTube videos for free
How to screen record in Windows 10 or 11
How to create a drop down list in excel
How to use Microsoft Designer’s Image Creator
How to upgrade your incompatible Windows 10 PC to Windows 11
How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you
How to screen mirror Android to TV
How to turn on private DNS mode on Android
What is ChatGPT?
How to record a call on iPhone
How to record a call on your Android phone
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use