Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University job with International Institute for Intelligent Nanorobots & Nanosystems, Fudan University | 12832741
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Employer
International Institute for Intelligent Nanorobots & Nanosystems, Fudan University
Location
Shanghai, China
Salary
Commensurate with experience
Closing date
8 Jan 2026
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Applied Science,
Biomedicine,
Chemistry,
Engineering,
Environmental Science,
Health Science,
Life Science,
Mathematics,
Physics
Job Type
Faculty Member,
Postdoctoral,
Principal Investigator,
Professor,
Researcher
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Fudan University is globally recognized for its excellence in teaching and research, consistently ranked among the world’s top universities (QS: 39, THE: 36).
The International Institute for Intelligent Nanorobots and Nanosystems (IIINN) is an independent research institute at Fudan University, jointly guided by esteemed academicians from the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the German Academy of Science and Engineering.
Located at Fudan University's Jiangwan campus and Yiwu Research Institute, IIINN aspires to be a world-class research institute dedicated to advancing both fundamental and applied research in micro-/nano-fabrication, micromanipulation, micro-/nano-robots, and intelligent micro-/nano-systems. Our mission is to foster groundbreaking innovations and accelerate the commercialization of cutting-edge research by uniting the frontiers of materials science, electronic engineering, and biomedical engineering. The institute’s first phase will span over 5,000 m² and house a team of over 100 researchers.
Research areas including but not limited to:
1) Functional and Intelligent Materials: Magnetic materials, shape-memory materials, photoelectric materials, intelligent sensing materials, hydrogel materials, catalytic materials, 2D materials, energy materials, and more.
2) Micro-/Nano-Devices and Integration: Micro-/nano-engines, actuators, multifunctional sensors, energy storage/conversion devices, advanced communication devices, advanced manufacturing, microfluidics, and more.
3) Intelligent and Bionic Systems: Molecular machines, adaptive micro-/nano-robots, bio-inspired systems, wearable electronics, flexible electronics, skin-like sensors, epidermal electronics, integrated systems for sensing, execution, and communication, intelligent drug delivery systems, and more.
Positions Available:
We are recruiting exceptional talents at all career stages.
1. Full Professor / Chair Professor
Internationally recognized research achievements and leadership.
Outstanding contributions in relevant fields with an interdisciplinary vision.
Ability to lead significant projects and establish dynamic research groups.
Adhering to academic ethics, possessing collaborative spirit.
2. Assistant / Associate Professor
Candidates under 40 with excellent achievements in relevant fields.
Proven ability to conduct independent research.
Demonstration of strong potential for academic excellence.
Publications in high-impact journals.
For those who are eligible for the Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars Program (National Natural Science Foundation of China), offering: Generous Settling-in allowance from government and Fudan University; and extra Start-up funding.
3. Postdoctoral Researchers
A doctoral degree with academic training in Science, Technology, and Engineering.
Demonstrated potential to carry out an independent research projects.
For exceptional candidates, IIINN offers a career-advancing fellowship to support his/her individual-driven research, with potential promotion to assistant professor immediately after the postdoctoral phase.
Why Join IIINN?
A state-of-the-art research environment with ample funding and advanced facilities.
Internationally competitive salary and benefits, including: Generous housing subsidies and access to Fudan-affiliated apartments; Comprehensive support for national and municipal-level talent programs; Education support for children at Fudan University-affiliated schools; Access to high-end medical care and a robust retirement pension.
Interested candidates are encouraged to submit their CV to Prof. Yongfeng Mei (yfm@fudan.edu.cn).
Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis. We look forward to welcoming you to our dynamic and collaborative research community!
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Recruitment of Overseas Outstanding Young Scholars
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China
Global Talent Recruitment of Shanghai University in 2025
Shanghai (CN)
Linyi University 2025 Staff Recruitment Announcement (Long-Term Positions)
Linyi, Shandong (CN)
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software