Best DIY Home Security Systems of 2025: Installed and Tested - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Security Security Services
Best DIY Home Security Systems of 2025: Installed and Tested
Keep burglars away with the best DIY home security systems. These expert-tested systems will give you professional-grade protection without the hassle of a professional installation.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Written by
Macy Meyer
Written by
David Anders
Article updated on February 13, 2025 at 9:00 AM PST
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
Macy Meyer Writer II Macy is a writer on the AI Team. She covers how AI is changing daily life and how to make the most of it. This includes writing about consumer AI products and their real-world impact, from breakthrough tools reshaping daily life to the intimate ways people interact with AI technology day-to-day. Macy is a North Carolina native who graduated from UNC-Chapel Hill with a BA in English and a second BA in Journalism. You can reach her at mmeyer@cnet.com. Expertise Macy covers consumer AI products and their real-world impact Credentials Macy has been working for CNET for coming on 2 years. Prior to CNET, Macy received a North Carolina College Media Association award in sports writing.
See full bio
David Anders Former Senior Writer David covered broadband providers, smart home devices and security products. Expertise Broadband providers | Home internet | Security cameras
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Equipment and installation
More robust systems can be pricey and harder to set up.
Smart home compatibility
If you plan to use Google Assistant or Alexa, be sure to buy a compatible system.
Costs, upfront and ongoing
Security system costs often include monthly fees.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Installing a security system can deter burglars from sneaking in to steal your stuff while you're on vacation this summer. According to Consumer Affairs, over 60% of burglars would avoid a home with a visible on-site alarm system. DIY security systems let you build a customized solution tailored specifically to your household -- from basic motion sensors to advanced outdoor cameras and full alarm networks. Plus, installing a security system yourself can help you save big compared to professionally installed systems, even with established brands like ADT. We've tested dozens of options to help you find the best DIY security system for your home. Our Picks
Best overall DIY home security system Ring Alarm Kit (2nd-gen)
Jump to details
$250 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best DIY home security system with router Ring Alarm Pro
Jump to details
$300 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best basic DIY home security system SimpliSafe Home Security
Jump to details
$211 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best apartment-friendly DIY home security system Arlo Home Security
Jump to details
$150 at Arlo
Jump to details
Best DIY home security system for existing smart homes Abode Smart Security Kit
Jump to details
$150 at Abode
Jump to details
HOME SECURITY DEALS OF THE WEEK
Ring Alarm 5-Piece Kit With Plug-In Outdoor Cam Plus:  $250 (save $50)
Ring Alarm 8-Piece Kit With Outdoor Cam Plus and Doorbell:  $400 (save $50)
Ring Alarm Pro 13-Piece Kit With Eero Wi-Fi 6 Router:  $400 (save $100)
Eufy Security 5-Piece Home Alarm Kit:  $94 (save $66) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best DIY Home Security Systems of 2025: Installed and Tested
What is the best overall DIY home security system?
Best DIY home security systems of 2025
Best overall DIY home security system
Best DIY home security system with router
Best basic DIY home security system
Best apartment-friendly DIY home security system
Best DIY home security system for existing smart homes
DIY home security systems compared
Factors to consider when choosing a DIY home security system
How we test home security systems
Other DIY home security systems we tested
How do I choose the best DIY home security system?
DIY home security system FAQs
What is the best overall DIY home security system?
Ring/CNETThe CNET team has years of hands-on testing, with hundreds of hours of experience and plenty of insights to share. With all that expertise in mind, our pick for the top DIY home security system is the reliable, expandable, eight-piece, second-gen Ring Alarm Kit.Read more: How to Turn Your Old iPhone or Android Into a Home Security Camera for FreeWe also offer options for those who already use various smart home technologies, along with tips to consider while shopping for security solutions. If you want to start a little smaller, check out our lists of the best indoor security cameras and outdoor security cameras, as well as our rundown on the cheapest home cameras. Before you continue: In this context, DIY means you choose and install products yourself. This means you’ll be taking care of the hardware and getting it set up with an app, without calling in a professional to do it for you. That means no contracts and no hidden fees. Read on to discover the best DIY home security systems for you.Best DIY home security systems of 2025
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best overall DIY home security system
Ring Alarm Kit (2nd-gen)
Pros
Reasonable pricing
Handy app
Good extras
Included range extender
Easy to expand
Cons
Not everyone needs a range extender
Limited smart home integration
This eight-piece Ring Alarm system offers an excellent kit for smaller homes at a reasonable price, with a reliable platform that can easily connect to any Amazon Echo or Alexa devices you may have (if you choose a subscription). The kit includes a base station, a keypad for arming/disarming, four contact sensors for guarding various entry points, a motion detector and a range extender if your Wi-Fi network doesn’t quite reach the outskirts of your home where you’d like to place sensors.Ring’s app offers a simple setup process that first-timers shouldn’t have much difficulty with. If you’d like to add other devices over time, Ring products like a Ring video doorbell or a Ring security camera will happily work with your app and may connect to the hub as well. Other smart home devices may not be as compatible -- parent company Amazon prefers to keep Ring within its own ecosystem of products, so integrations with platforms like Google Assistant aren’t possible.Finally, the Ring Protect plan offers a few extras at its lowest tier, but things get much more interesting at the $20 per month Pro plan, which adds home monitoring -- making your DIY one a professionally monitored system -- that can be a valuable add-on for those who want professional responses during emergencies.  ... Show more
Get it now
$250 at Amazon
$250 at Best Buy
$250 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Amazon Alexa (some Alexa features require a Ring subscription)Sensors
Contact sensors for doors or windows, motion sensorAdditional fees
Ring Protect plans from $5 to $20 per month
Add to compare
Hobie Crase/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Hobie Crase/CNET
Best DIY home security system with router
Ring Alarm Pro
Pros
Good price for the kit
Wi-Fi 6 router
Strong security performance
Great Alexa integration
Cons
Router is required for system use
Few integration options
The Ring Alarm Pro is similar to our top Ring Alarm pick but with a few key differences. It’s more expensive, and the primary reason is its included Eero Wi-Fi 6 router. For some people, that’s great: Wi-Fi 6 is the latest router standard that many people still haven’t upgraded to, and you don’t have to worry about choosing a new router separately. For others who have a preferred router brand or already have a Wi-Fi 6 router, the Pro package presents a problem, because some features won’t work without this particular router.Otherwise, the Ring Alarm Pro system includes a keypad, four contact sensors and a motion sensor as well as an alarm range extender (although the kit doesn’t include alarm sensors so you’ll need to buy these separately). Again, it’s a great package for Alexa users and those who are interested in adding more Ring or Amazon products down the road.  ... Show more
Get it now
$300 at Amazon
$300 at Best Buy
$299 at Crutchfield
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Amazon Alexa (some Alexa features require Ring subscription)Sensors
Contact sensors for doors or windows, motion sensor, Wi-Fi routerAdditional fees
Ring Protect plans from $5 to $20 per month
Learn more
Ring Alarm Pro review
Add to compare
Chris Monroe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Chris Monroe/CNET
Best basic DIY home security system
SimpliSafe Home Security
Pros
Easy to install and operate
Great customizability
Professional monitoring options
Cons
Limited smart home integrations
SimpliSafe was one of the first DIY home security systems to hit the market and is a reasonable alternative to ADT and other professional alarm company firms. That's due in large part to its affordable cost and wide variety of accessories in comparison to most security systems. SimpliSafe makes a variety of different starter kits that usually start at around $320, and you can often get them for less through discounts. SimpliSafe's impressive array of accessories such as indoor and outdoor security cameras, key fob, additional motion sensors, smoke detectors, glass break sensors and siren, and its solid performance for the price makes it an easy choice. A subscription plan is necessary to get all features, and those start at around $10 per month for self-monitoring.  ... Show more
Get it now
$211 at Amazon
$241 at SimpliSafe
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/AssistantSensors
Entry sensors for doors or windows, glass break sensor, motion sensorAdditional fees
Optional self or professional monitoring starts at $10 per month
Learn more
SimpliSafe Home Security review
Add to compare
Karen Freeman/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Karen Freeman/CNET
Best apartment-friendly DIY home security system
Arlo Home Security
8.3
/10
SCORE
Pros
System is agile and responsive
Modular system can be customized to your needs
Each sensor performs eight different functions
Cons
Gets fairly expensive once you add accessories and professional monitoring
No integration with Apple HomeKit, Amazon Alexa or Google Assistant
Battery and cellular backup costs an extra $80
Arlo, the maker of one of our favorite outdoor security cameras, introduced its home security system in 2022 and it immediately stood out for its All-in-One sensors. While most home security sensors serve a single purpose such as motion or sound detection, the Arlo All-in-One sensors are capable of eight different detection functions. The sensors can detect motion and sounds such as smoke or CO alarms, plus changes in ambient light or temperature. That's great if you have a small place like an apartment, dorm or bedroom and want quick sensor placement that can do a little of everything, anywhere.If you want to go bigger, it's easy to customize the system by adding Arlo cams or doorbells that will also work with the hub. You don't need an Arlo Secure plan for basic features, but if you branch out we suggest it to get extras like video storage.
... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Arlo
$150 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, some Apple Home compatibilitySensors
2 sensors with 8 sensing functions, including motion, open/close, leak and freezeAdditional fees
Optional Arlo Secure plans from $8 to $25 per month Score Breakdown
Performance
8
Usability
10
Features
8
Design
7
Learn more
Arlo Home Security review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best DIY home security system for existing smart homes
Abode Smart Security Kit
Pros
Great smart home integration
Apple support
Mini sensor can fit in tight places
Cons
Only a couple of sensors for the price
The Abode Smart Security kit is slightly smaller than our other picks, providing a hub, one mini door/window sensor, a motion sensor and a key fob. You can easily purchase separate sensor packs to expand it, and even its slimmed-down kit offers serious advantages. Notably, it’s one of the few DIY systems that works well with Apple’s Home app and Siri. That’s only the beginning of Abode’s smart home integration, which also supports numerous products from Sonos, Bose, Yale, Schlage, Philips Hue, Ecobee and many more. That makes it the perfect fit for someone who already has a family of (random) smart devices to link up.Abode’s standard subscription plan includes video storage and enables much of that smart home integration, so we highly suggest considering it. The much more expensive Pro plan gives you professional home monitoring but not many other notable additions.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Abode
Specs & Configurations
Smart home support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Apple Home/Siri, Sonos, Bose, etc.Sensors
Mini sensor for doors or windows, motion sensorAdditional fees
Optional subscription plans from $7 to $25 per month
Add to compareDIY home security systems compared
Best DIY home security systemsRing Alarm (2nd-gen)Ring Alarm ProSimpliSafe (8-piece set)Arlo Home SecurityAbode Smart System price $250$299$211$150$150Monitoring price $20/month$20/month$32/month$25$229 (annual plan only) or $19/monthStarter equipment Door/window sensors, motion detectors, a keypad, a siren and optional professional monitoring subscriptionsEero Wi-Fi 6 mesh router, door/window sensors, motion detectors, a keypad, a siren and optional professional monitoring subscriptions1 base station, 1 keypad, 1 motion sensor, 3 entry sensors1 keypad control panel, 2 All-in-One sensors1 base station, two mini door/window sensors, 1 glass break sensor, 1 motion sensor, 1 key fobContract required? NoNoNoNoNoExtra features Cellular-powered backup Wi-Fi, network security monitoring, local processing, storage for all of your Ring devicesCellular-powered backup Wi-Fi, network security monitoring, local processing, storage for all of your Ring devicesCustomizable system, built-in Wi-Fi and cellular, integration with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant24/7 emergency response, smart interactive notifications, cellular and battery backup, integration with Amazon Alexa and Google Assistant24/7 emergency response, smart detect notifications, cellular and battery backup, integration with Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant and Apple Siri, broad smart home compatibilityReview score N/A98.5N/A7.9
Factors to consider when choosing a DIY home security system
When selecting a home security system, the first decision to consider is usually whether you want a DIY or a pro system. Since you're here, you've probably already decided to go the DIY route, so here are some more parameters to consider when shopping around for home security systems.Equipment and installation Do you just need to keep watch over your entryways? A good video doorbell for your front door and an outdoor camera covering the back may be all you need; easy to install and monitor yourself. If you want to keep closer tabs on your home inside and out with 24/7 monitoring and quick access to emergency response services, you'll want a more robust system. Most DIY (and professional brands too) offer home security bundles with most, if not all, of the equipment you'd need to get started and the ability to add single devices as needed.Smart home compatibilityMost home security devices are compatible with Alexa and Google Home smart hubs, but if you prefer Apple HomeKit or another smart home ecosystem, you may have to do a bit more shopping and comparing to find a system compatible with your existing smart home devices. Don't fret over compatibility too much, as Matter will make it easier to connect previously incompatible devices.Costs, upfront and ongoing We listed "cost" last here for a reason. A complete home security system will likely cost you at least a couple of hundred bucks, so be prepared for that. There's the potential to spend lots more on equipment, or a lot less; you can find cameras for under $30.Find your budget range and compare systems in that range across brands. For a home security kit, most starter bundles fall in the same range. If you're comfortable with self-monitoring, DIY systems may not come with any ongoing costs. Monthly subscriptions (without a contract) for cloud storage, enhanced features and possibly even professional monitoring are typically an option with DIY systems, often for lower monthly fees than professional services. How we test home security systems
Hands-on testing is core to our evaluations of any home security products. In short, when it comes to home security systems, we pay special attention to the user experience, the promised features, reliability and overall value, along with a few other elements. We do the testing in a real home environment over at least a full week. Our testing process includes checking the reliability of the product by gauging the response time. A system which doesn't send notifications on time isn't of much value to customers who might need immediate assistance. All our testing is done in a real home environment for at least a week which guarantees that we are able to come across any gotcha's, or practical problems with the security system. Finally, we ascertain the systems a value score based on the feature set, our experience with the product, and, just as important, the price. If you want to read more about our review process, check out our in-depth article on how we test home security systems and services. Other DIY home security systems we tested
The above systems weren't the only DIY options we explored. Here are other competitive security systems we took a look at, and why they didn't quite make our list.Cove: Cove’s standard lineup is fine, but its generic quality struggled to compete with our picks. If you can’t really find what you’re looking for on our list, stop by Cove to check how its kits fit.Lorex: Lorex is an excellent home security option for those who prefer sticking with local storage. It is a bit expensive compared to other DIY systems and may require working with its somewhat clunky recorder.Frontpoint: Frontpoint has a strong array of kits, but like ADT, its massive home monitoring fees (starting at $50) are too difficult to recommend.Kangaroo: Kangaroo has budget-friendly systems but struggles with design quality. If you want to save as much money as possible, you may want to give it a try.Wyze: Wyze offers a great starter home kit, but its current security flaws keep it off our list for now. How do I choose the best DIY home security system?
When choosing the right DIY home security system, there are a few key factors to keep in mind. Cost is one of the biggest considerations -- both in terms of upfront equipment pricing and ongoing subscription fees for things like monitoring or cloud storage. Entry-level systems can start at around $100, especially if you catch a sale. However, prices can easily climb to $200 or $300 or more as you add sensors, cameras, or alarms. It’s also worth noting that many of these systems go on sale throughout the year, which can help keep costs in check.Beyond cost, think about how many entry points like doors and windows you want to secure. Some starter kits come with just a base and one or two sensors, while more robust options like the Ring Alarm Pro offer multiple sensors, motion detectors, and even range extenders. More expensive systems tend to offer better smart home integration and extra features, so it’s important to weigh functionality against your budget. Also consider whether you want local or subscription-based storage and monitoring -- some systems offer DIY, no-cost options, while others require a monthly fee for full access. DIY home security system FAQs
Is it better to have professional home security service over a DIY version?
A DIY home security system certainly has its advantages, like lower pricing and simple self-installation, but professional security has its perks. DIY systems are typically easy to install and set up. You won't have to worry about setup if your system is installed by an experienced technician. Professional systems are generally more expensive than DIY but may come with lower upfront costs. You can get free or discounted equipment and free installation with a professional system, but you may also have to sign a one- or two-year contract.Signing a contract is unfortunate, but the level of monitoring, support and warranties may be worth it. While DIY systems often come with warranties, monitoring options and technical support on their own, professional services are likely going to deliver a more hassle-free experience if you're willing to pay for it.
Show more
How much do DIY home security systems cost?
A DIY security system can cost $60 to $400 or more depending on the brand and model you buy and where you buy it. SimpliSafe's 10-piece DIY home security system lists for $730 on its website. Those prices can go much higher if you opt for all the bells and whistles the service offers.Like with any addition or upgrade to your home, you'll want to evaluate the costs, and what you get for the money when choosing a DIY security system. It's easy for the cost of a DIY system to add up, but keep in mind that choosing a cheaper system that doesn't meet your needs may not be worth your while either.
Show more
Do security systems need to be hard wired?
No, wireless security systems don't need to be hard-wired as they run on batteries that can last several months at a time.
Show more
Do you need Wi-Fi for a DIY home security system?
Most easy-to-install DIY home security systems depend on Wi-Fi to connect to the various components and relay notifications to your mobile phone.
Show more
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Also written by
Macy Meyer Writer IIAlso written by
David Anders Former Senior Writer
Home Security Guides
Security Cameras
Best Home Security Camera
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Cheap Home Security Cameras
Best Indoor Home Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbell Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells
Best Nanny Cams
Arlo Pro 4 Review
Ring Alarm Pro Review
Security Services
Best Home Security System
Best Home Security for Renters
Best Cheap Home Security Systems
Best DIY Home Security Systems
Vivint Home Security Review
Simplisafe vs. Ring
ADT Home Security Review
ADT vs. Vivint
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.