Matthew McConaughey Says Downsizing the Bed Was Good for His Marriage - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Health
Matthew McConaughey says one furniture swap in the bedroom strengthened his marriage
By
Amanda Goh
Matthew McConaughey says swapping his king-size bed for a queen-size one has been good for his marriage to Camila Alves.
Tibrina Hobson/Getty Images
2025-09-23T05:05:55Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Matthew McConaughey says a small furniture swap in the bedroom has been good for his marriage.
He and his wife, Camila Alves, have downsized to a queen-size bed from a king-size bed, he said.
He added that how he and Alves treat each other sets the tone for how their kids will learn love.
Matthew McConaughey says making a small adjustment to his bedroom furniture has been good for his marriage to Camila Alves.
In an interview with Fox News Digital published on Saturday, the actor said couples who sleep on king-size beds should consider downsizing.McConaughey told the outlet that when he visits a friend's house, all of the friend's kids pile into a massive double king-size bed.
"The wife's on one side with her side table, and the husband's on the other side, and it's great when you've got all three kids, but all of a sudden the kids get too big. They're out of the bed," he said.When it's just the two of them, a big bed can feel like too much distance, McConaughey said."I wake up one morning. I'm looking over there, and Camilla's like a football field away, man. Then you go to bed at night, like you want to snuggle up, and you're like: 'Well, we've got to cover up. You come about 12 feet and I'll come 12 feet,'" McConaughey said.
That's when they decided to downsize their sleeping space."So we got a queen-size where we're shoulder to shoulder. I'm telling you, it's good for your marriage," he said.McConaughey and Alves have been married since 2012 and share three kids: Levi, 17, Vida, 15, and Livingston, 12.
No matter how busy life gets, McConaughey makes sure to carve out time for his wife, he said.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
"You've got kids, so you're spending as much time being a good mother and father to them, but you also got to make sure — and I can do a better job of this — of going, 'No, this is our time,'" he said.He believes the way he and Alves treat each other sets an example for how their kids will one day understand love.
"You got to make sure to remember that one of the best examples you can give the kids of how to treat a woman or a man, or how to treat someone they end up falling in love with down the line, is how you treat their mother and how the mother treats the father," he said.A representative for McConaughey didn't immediately respond to a request for comment sent by Business Insider outside regular hours.Other celebrities have also revealed the ways they make their relationships last, including bedtime habits and date-night rules.
In a July 2024 interview, Bette Midler said sleeping in separate bedrooms was the secret to her decadeslong marriage to Martin von Haselberg.The "Hocus Pocus" star added that they'd been sleeping separately since the start of their relationship, but "it's been a fabulous ride."Gordon Ramsay's wife, Tana Ramsay, said in a September 2024 interview that she and her husband often got dressed up to go out on dates without their kids.
"In our relationship, having little kids again, our present to each other on our last anniversary was, we have to go to the theater once a month, and we have to go out three times a month, and we're not allowed to wear trainers," she said.
Recommended video
Relationships
Marriage
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account