Best Live TV Streaming Services of 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Services of 2025
Hulu's live TV service, YouTube TV and Sling help you cut the cord, but what do they offer?
Our Experts
Written by
Ty Pendlebury
Written by
David Katzmaier
Article updated on September 8, 2025 at 11:00 AM PDT
Ty Pendlebury Editor TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made. Expertise Ty has worked for radio, print, and online publications, and has been writing about home entertainment since 2004. He is an avid record collector and streaming music enthusiast. Credentials Ty was nominated for Best New Journalist at the Australian IT Journalism awards, but he has only ever won one thing. As a youth, he was awarded a free session for the photography studio at a local supermarket.
See full bio
David Katzmaier Editorial Director -- Personal Tech David reviews TVs and leads the Personal Tech team at CNET, covering mobile, software, computing, streaming and home entertainment. We provide helpful, expert reviews, advice and videos on what gadget or service to buy and how to get the most out of it. Expertise A 25-year CNET veteran, David has been reviewing TVs since the days of CRT, rear-projection and plasma. He created CNET's methodology for testing TVs, streaming services and AI tools. Prior to CNET he wrote for Sound & Vision magazine and eTown.com. Credentials Although still awaiting his Oscar for Best Picture Reviewer, David does hold certifications from the Imaging Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Standards and Technology on display calibration and evaluation.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Channel lineup
Live TV streaming services may offer different packages and add-ons for viewers, but you want to ensure you can watch your local channels along with cable networks and on-demand videos. Not every service provides access to local programming (like PBS, ABC or NBC), sports or channels you'd typically find on cable and satellite TV. Compare channel lineups before choosing.
Price
You can choose a streaming service subscription that aligns with your budget, and there are multiple services available. Prices range from $25 to over $100 per month, depending on what you want. When considering costs, review the channel selection, cloud DVR abilities, price of premium add-ons and how many devices you can stream on simultaneously.
Simultaneous streams
Take note of how many screens you can watch at a time. For example, YouTube TV allows you to stream on three devices at once, while Hulu grants you two, with the option to pay extra for more screens. Look for platform offerings that fit your household's needs.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
Thinking about alternatives to cable? Live TV streaming services provide an easy way to watch cable channels without needing a contract. These cable replacements are streamed over the internet, but unlike on-demand services such as Netflix, they let you channel surf among the most popular live channels. For a flat monthly fee, subscribers to these services can watch sports, news broadcasts and primetime TV shows, and we have compared all of the apps on mobile devices, streaming sticks and smart TVs. Plus, as many of these services offer unlimited recordings, you can record all of your shows and watch them later. Our Picks
Best for on-demand Hulu Plus Live TV
Jump to details
$83 at Hulu
Jump to details
Best cable alternative YouTube TV
Jump to details
$83 at YouTube TV
Jump to details
Best streaming service for the money Sling TV Blue
Jump to details
$46 at Sling TV
Jump to details
Best streaming service for sports DirecTV
Jump to details
$87 at DirecTV
Jump to details
Table of Contents
Best Live TV Streaming Services of 2025
What's the best live TV streaming service overall?
Best live TV streaming services of 2025
Best for on-demand
Best cable alternative
Best streaming service for the money
Best streaming service for sports
How we test live TV streaming services
Live TV streaming services we also tested
Best live TV streaming services
Factors to consider for cord-cutting live TV services
Reasons not to choose streaming TV services
Live TV streaming service FAQs
While the live TV streaming is more sophisticated than ever, some services cost the same as the cable they are designed to replace. Indeed, pricing and channel availability are in a constant state of flux. After recent increases YouTube TV is now $83, DirecTV bumped its price up to $87, Fubo's basic package now costs $85 and Hulu Plus Live TV is now $83. Meanwhile, Fubo and Hulu have announced they would merge -- pending regulatory approval. But change is all part of the brave new world of live TV streaming. Here's what you need to know.Want to save even more money? See the Best Free TV Streaming Services: Plex, Pluto TV and more.What's the best live TV streaming service overall?We've tested all of the popular paid live TV streaming services including Sling TV, Hulu Plus Live TV, DirecTV, Philo and Fubo. Among this competition, our top choices in this category are Hulu Plus Live TV and the budget-friendly Sling TV. At the affordable end of the spectrum, Sling's Blue package carries many basic channels for $46 a month, while Hulu's live offerings include a Disney streaming bundle for $83. Each service provides a user-friendly layout and a blend of live channels with unlimited DVRs and on-demand content. Beyond those two, all of the cancel-anytime live TV bundles we've evaluated on this list allow you to watch local and national news and live sports and events. You can stream live channels such as CNN, NBC, ESPN and Fox on a host of different devices. You can compare the services' channel lineups here.Best live TV streaming services of 2025
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best for on-demand
Hulu Plus Live TV
8.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Unlimited DVR
Inclusion of Disney Plus and Hulu on-demand content
Solid channel roster
Cons
Price hike
YouTube TV's channel selection is better
For people who want the best mix of live streaming and on-demand, Hulu Plus Live TV is the best service. Its channel selection may not be as robust as YouTube TV, but it's almost there -- especially with the addition of PBS and Magnolia. Yet, it's Hulu's significant catalog of on-demand content that helps set it apart. Hulu's exclusive titles include Shogun and Only Murders in the Building, plus it has a massive catalog of broadcast programming, which grant it a content advantage no other service can match. The $83 service includes an unlimited DVR plus the ad-supported version of the Disney Bundle (Hulu Basic, Disney Plus and ESPN Plus), and if you want the ad-free bundle, the price is $96.In terms of usability, the interface is friendly with plenty of options for content discovery, and all of the sections are clearly marked. Like most of its competition it has an unlimited DVR so there's plenty of space for any program you feel like bingeing on. The only annoyance is that if you want to record a show while you're watching it live, you need to exit to the guide to press the record button.In January, Hulu announced it was merging with Fubo in a deal which would end the litigation between the two companies over the Venu Sports streaming service. The merger is subject to regulatory approval and no official date has been set.Given that Hulu Plus Live TV offers you more with its live channels, namely a whole bunch of on-demand content, it's currently the service to choose for live TV streaming. Top channels not available on Hulu Plus Live TV: AMC, BBC America and NBA TV.  ... Show more
Get it now
$83 at Hulu
Specs & Configurations
Price
$83Simultaneous streams
2, but you can pay extra for unlimitedChannels
Over 95
Learn more
Hulu Plus Live TV review
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best cable alternative
YouTube TV
8.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
More channels than competitors
Excellent on-screen interface and handy search bar
Great cloud DVR
Cons
$20 upgrade doesn't include much 4K content
On the pricier side
YouTube TV has more top channels than any competitor at this price, and it was the first service to include local PBS stations -- Hulu and DirecTV Stream followed suit later. Despite a $10 price hike in January 2025, YouTube TV service has an excellent cloud DVR, including both unlimited storage and a generous nine months to watch recordings (most rivals offer 30 days). The user interface is no-nonsense, though it has had a little spruce-up of late, and is now easier to use than ever. The service it offers most of the features a cable service can give you include time shifting and it is also the only one to offer surround sound on live broadcasts.YouTube TV is the exclusive home of NFL Sunday Ticket through the 2029-2030 season, with monthly payment plans available. In addition, the video streaming service has a $20 monthly upgrade that lets you watch a limited number of 4K livestreams, download DVR recordings to your devices and watch an unlimited number of simultaneous streams (up from three).While Hulu throws in Disney for the same money,
and Sling TV is even cheaper, YouTube TV is still worth subscribing to if you want a tightly integrated search and a great channel selection. Top channels not available on YouTube TV: A&E, History, Lifetime and MLBRead our YouTube TV review.  ... Show more
Get it now
$83 at YouTube TV
Specs & Configurations
Price
$83Simultaneous streams
3Channels
Over 100
Learn more
YouTube TV review
Add to compare
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Ty Pendlebury/CNET
Best streaming service for the money
Sling TV Blue
8.4
/10
SCORE
Pros
Excellent value with decent channel selection
Numerous choices and add-ons
Optional AirTV 2 tuner for local channels
Cons
No local channels beyond ABC, NBC and Fox in a few cities
Limited DVR
AirTV channels don't work on browsers or Apple TV
If you're looking for the cheapest live TV streaming service, and one that is still able to offer a usable amount of channels, then it's without a doubt Sling TV Blue. Yet, things are a little more complicated than they are for Sling's competitors. You see, Sling tenders two $45-ish-per-month live TV streaming channel packages, Sling Orange and Sling Blue. While a number of live TV channels are common to both, Orange is essentially the ESPN/Disney package, while Blue is the Fox/Discovery package. Meanwhile, Orange & Blue combines the two offerings for $61.In 2023, Sling added ABC to eight markets and you now pay $46 a month regardless of whether you receive one local channel or three. As a result, Sling TV costs up to $20 more than Philo, yet it still has better channels, more options and a comparatively better live TV streaming interface. Sling is also cheaper than most other streaming services, let alone cable, but it is a little hampered by its 50 hour DVR cap while most competitors have unlimited recordings. You can add Unlimited DVR to Sling for an extra $5 a month.While Sling doesn't have a free trial, though it is currently offering half price for the first month, but it does offer a cut-down version called Freestream with a number of included channels.Top channels not available on Sling Blue: CBS, Animal Planet, Disney Channel, ESPN and Nickelodeon. ABC, Fox and NBC are available in select markets.Top channels not available on Sling Orange: ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC, Animal Planet, Bravo, CNBC, Discovery Channel, Bravo, Fox News, Fox Sports 1, FX, MSNBC and USA Network.  ... Show more
Get it now
$46 at Sling TV
Specs & Configurations
Price
$46Simultaneous streams
3Channels
Over 40
Learn more
Sling TV Blue review
Add to compare
Sarah Tew/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Sarah Tew/CNET
Best streaming service for sports
DirecTV
7.4
/10
SCORE
Pros
Good for channel surfers
Offers most regional sports networks on higher tier
Cons
Expensive
Not as many non-sports channels as competitors
DirecTV, formerly known as DirecTV Stream, is the most expensive service at $87, but it does have some pluses, including the flipper-friendly ability to swipe left and right to change channels. The service also offers unlimited DVR capability to new users, while existing subscribers need to pay an extra $10 a month. DirecTV recently announced its Genre Packs, starting at $35, which slim down channel offerings into compact packages. These are MySports for $70 a month, MyEntertainment (which includes more than 40 channels, such as Food and FX), MyNews and MiEspañol. Subscribers can add Mini Packs to these, which include sports and movies.For cord-cutters who want to follow their local NBA or MLB team, DirecTV's $130 Choice package is a competitive live TV sports pick, because it has access to more regional sports networks than the competition. Additionally, DirecTV includes channels some other services can't, including almost 250 local PBS stations. Top channels not available in base package: MLB Network, NFL Network and Travel Channel.  ... Show more
Get it now
$87 at DirecTV
Specs & Configurations
Price
$87Simultaneous streams
2, but you can pay extra for unlimitedChannels
Over 90
Learn more
DirecTV review
Add to compareHow we test live TV streaming services
Sling TVWe have ordered these services based on the score each streaming service received in their individual review, and based on a number of criteria including the number of platforms, ease of use, features, cost and channels. We test each service's apps on multiple platforms including Android, iOS, Apple TV, Google TV and internet browsers, and note whenever features aren't available on some of them. Design: We take into account the design of the service including its ease of use, and the layout of the program guide -- for example, how easy it it to find the content you want, or to record a show? Content: A live TV streaming service is only as good as the channels it offers, and we take into account the number of popular channels it supports. We also note any sports offerings, add-on packages, plus the quality of originals and back catalog content.Value: In terms of price, there are three tiers of live TV streaming services: free, budget and premium. While we cover free services here, the budget tier includes services like Philo and Sling TV, while the premium services like YouTube TV cost from $80 and up. We try to balance the other factors such as content and features, and how much they correlate to your "bang for buck."Features: We pay special attention to features like 4K HDR, DVR and number of multiple streams, as well as unique features such as DirecTV's "channel flipping" mechanic which helps the service feel more cable like.
Live TV streaming services we also tested
Philo: This $28 live TV streaming service offers a variety of channels, but it lacks sports channels, local stations and big-name news networks -- although Cheddar and BBC news are available. Philo offers bread-and-butter cable staples like AMC, Comedy Channel, Nickelodeon and Magnolia Network (formerly DIY), and specializes in lifestyle and reality programming. It now includes an unlimited cloud DVR and optional add-ons from Epix and Starz. We think most people are better off paying extra for Sling TV's superior service, but if Philo has every channel you want, it's a decent deal. Read our Philo review.Fubo: There's a lot to like about Fubo -- it offers a wide selection of channels, and its sports focus makes it especially attractive to football fans of all kinds. For NFL in particular, it's one of three services, alongside YouTube TV and Hulu, with NFL Network and optional RedZone. In addition, it's also suited to NBA, NHL and MLB fans who live in an area served by one of Fubo's RSNs. The biggest hole in Fubo's lineup is the lack of Turner networks, including CNN, TNT and TBS -- especially since the latter two carry a lot of sports content. Those missing channels and the 2024 price bump that increased plans by $5 (plus additional RSN fees) make it less attractive than YouTube TV or Hulu for most viewers. Read our Fubo review here, and catch up on Fubo's merger with Hulu here.While you are most likely familiar with the services on this list, it's not fully reflective of every live TV platform available. If you're looking for free TV there are a number of services, while OTA (over the air) is also available if you hang an antenna.
Best live TV streaming services
Factors to consider for cord-cutting live TV services
David Katzmaier/CNETIf you want a cable-like experience at home and for on-the-go devices, without the dead weight that a cable subscription brings, a streaming service is worth a look. There's no contract to sign, and if you don't like the service you're on, you can easily switch. Whether you're looking for a basic package such as Sling TV or want to pay more for a deluxe experience from the likes of Hulu Plus Live TV, there should be a live TV streaming service to suit you. Here's some questions to help you get started:Does the service offer your "must-have" channels? See CNET's comparison of the top 100 channels here.Does it offer local channels in your area? How good is the cloud DVR?Does the interface make it easy to browse for shows?Are there enough simultaneous streams for you and your family?Is your internet connection up to snuff? See CNET's guide to improving streaming quality here.Channels: Each of the TV streaming services above offers a different mix of channels, so your first step should be choosing one that carries your "can't miss" cable channels and shows. Some of the most important live channels are local, namely ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC. Not every service offers all of them in every area, but the best streaming service for you will include the majority of what you love to watch, so it's worth shopping around. The live TV streaming service lineups are in constant flux as networks scramble to secure access to popular channels (ones with highly watched original shows and regional sports networks are especially in demand). There's also the chance that a certain cable channel could disappear from a certain service after a network contract expires, which is what happened in 2020 with the regional sports networks. These negotiations lead to other changes, too. Over the past few years, YouTube TV, Sling TV, Hulu (multiple times), Philo and DirecTV have all raised their prices. Google and Roku resolved a contract dispute that prevented their users from downloading the YouTube TV app, but they lost Disney channels for two days due to a different dispute. Adding to this volatility is the fact that sometimes less popular services are simply phased out -- AT&T TV Watch TV, TVision and PlayStation Vue are just three examples. Price: Broadly, each of these streaming services can be broken down into two main groups: budget, with prices ranging between $25 and $50 and few or no local channels; and premium, with prices from $80 and up, and local channels and supercharged cloud DVRs.That's right, all of the services allow you to record and playback shows, just like a traditional cable or satellite DVR, but they often come with restrictions.
Number of simultaneous users: If you want to watch more than one program at the same time -- for example, on your living room TV and on a bedroom TV, or the main TV and a tablet or other devices -- you'll want to make sure the video streaming service you're watching has enough simultaneous streams. Sling Orange only allows one stream at a time, and if you try to watch a second, it's blocked. Other services have higher simultaneous stream limits.
Keep in mind that, especially if you do have more than one person watching at once on supported devices, you need to make sure you havefast, reliable broadband internet. A 100Mbps download service will cost around $50 to $60 a month, and sadly that's where the savings of cutting cable can get swallowed up.  Reasons not to choose streaming TV services
Streaming TV services are great, but there are some things they can't do compared with a traditional cable box. First, it's worth looking at the channels that you can't get with any of these live TV streaming services. For example, only three of the services are currently offer PBS: YouTube TV and DirecTV and Hulu Plus Live TV.With sports, fans want to make sure they can find the sports channels to follow their teams. Most services carry ESPN and local channels for NFL football, but if you follow a professional baseball or basketball team, you might need its specific channel -- called a regional sports network or RSN -- to watch regular season games. RSN coverage varies widely for each service. Sometimes, even if you live in the right area, you may be mistakenly blacked out due to an IP address error. If this is the case, you can fix this by signing up for a sports-friendly VPN.
Live TV services can be streamed wherever you are with apps for every major device. Sarah Tew/CNETEvery live TV service's video streaming is a few seconds to a minute or more behind the "live" stream you'll get from your local cable TV or satellite provider. That means you could get a preview of scores or big plays from Twitter, phone alerts or calls from friends slightly before you see the action on screen.
If you're used to 5.1-channel surround offered by cable or even OTA, then you may be disappointed that YouTube is the only service to offer surround sound on live broadcasts. The other services include stereo sound only on live channels, though 5.1 audio is available on some on-demand material.
Live TV streaming service FAQs
Are there any free live streaming services?
If you're trying to save money, there are a number of free TV streaming services that offer some of the perks associated with traditional services. These include a large selection of linear channels -- including popular options such as CBS News, BBC Food, AMC and Hallmark -- and they come with a program guide so you can roam between channels. Most also offer a selection of on-demand content, such as movies and TV shows, which include non-skippable ad breaks.
Show more
What if I prefer to skip live services? What are my alternatives?
In 2025, streaming fans have more choices than ever, including NBC/Comcast's Peacock, AT&T's HBO Max, Apple TV Plus and Disney Plus. While Peacock differs slightly in that it has live news the other services lack traditional live channels -- focusing instead on back catalogs and new original programming -- but they can still eat into your entertainment budget.Netflix: Netflix is so popular that it's become a generic term for streaming in the same way as "Magic Marker" or
"Coke" in the South has. Ad-supported plans now start at $8 a month, and the service offers thousands of TV shows and movies, including original TV series like Black Mirror and Stranger Things (be aware you may need to trade up to the $18 plan to watch some content). Then there are Netflix original movies including Oscar winners Roma and The Power of the Dog. Prime Video: The "other" major streaming service, which is included as part of a $139 annual Prime Membership, or on its own for $9 a month. The interface isn't as user-friendly as Netflix, but the service also offers shows not on its rival, including original content like The Rings of Power, The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel and The Expanse. Amazon Prime also has the ability to add premium channels (HBO and Showtime and more), making it a potential one-stop shop.Disney Plus: One of the biggest streaming services to launch in some time, Disney has gathered a mix of movies, TV shows and exclusive content, including Loki, Andor and She-Hulk, starting at $10 a month. Read our Disney Plus review here.Peacock: Peacock is NBC's answer to Paramount Plus. Its main claim to fame is that its basic tier, with 7,500 hours of content, is free. Peacock Premium unlocks more content for $8 a month -- including exclusive shows such as Poker Face and Mrs. Davis -- while an ad-lite version called Peacock Premium Plus is $14 monthly.Paramount Plus: Paramount Plus costs $8 a month or $13 monthly for ad-free streaming. The service offers live TV for Premium subscribers, sports and on-demand content from CBS, MTV, BET, Nickelodeon and Paramount Network, plus its Paramount Pictures movie studio. Paramount Plus also offers exclusive originals such as Yellowjackets, 1923 and Picard.Vudu and Movies Anywhere: Digital libraries (or lockers) that incorporate legacy UltraViolet content and streaming movies and TV that are only available for purchase, such as new releases.It's also worth investigating free, ad-supported services such as Roku Channel, Amazon Freevee, Tubi, Pluto and Crackle, which offer a wealth of content. Read CNET's roundup of free TV services here.
Show more
Is an outdoor antenna a viable option?
If you have a TV in your house -- that is, a screen which has a tuner and not a monitor -- you're part way to cutting the cord already. An affordable indoor antenna hooked up to your TV will let you watch free TV over the air from any channel you receive in your local broadcast area. Quality antennas cost as little as $20. See our comparison of indoor antennas here.You can also add a hardware DVR such as the TiVo Edge for Antenna if you want. Then you can record those live TV antenna channels, play them back and skip commercials, just like on a standard cable TV DVR. Here's CNET's roundup of the best OTA DVRs for cord-cutters.A solid, lower-cost alternative to live TV streaming services is the combination of an antenna for live local channels and an on-demand service such as Netflix or Hulu. That way you'll still be able to watch live programming and also have a choice of on-demand content.
Show more
Which is a cheaper option, cable or streaming?
Streaming live TV services are still in flux. Since launching, every service has increased its prices by at least $10 a month, TV channel selections are changing all the time and some services have even closed. While live TV streaming is here to stay, and cable is increasingly left in the past, it will be some time before both prices and the services offered settle in. For instance, most services cost upwards of $40, while the premium ones start at $80, and this is before you add the price of internet.Read more: Streaming vs. Cable: Which One Saves You More Money?
Show more
About the Author
Ty Pendlebury Editor Ty Pendlebury Editor
TV and home video editor Ty Pendlebury joined CNET Australia in 2006, and moved to New York City to be a part of CNET in 2011. He tests, reviews and writes about the latest TVs and audio equipment. When he's not playing Call of Duty he's eating whatever cuisine he can get his hands on. He has a cat named after one of the best TVs ever made.
Read full bio
Also written by
David Katzmaier Editorial Director -- Personal Tech
Services and Software Guides
VPN
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Firestick
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Cybersecurity
Best Password Manager
Best Antivirus
Best Identity Theft Protection
Best LastPass Alternative
Streaming Services
Best Live TV Streaming Service
Best Streaming Service
Best Free TV Streaming Service
Best Music Streaming Services
Web Hosting & Websites
Best Web Hosting
Best Minecraft Server Hosting
Best Website Builder
Other Services & Software
Best Dating Sites
Best Language Learning Apps
Best Weather App
Best Stargazing Apps
Best Cloud Storage
Best Resume Writing Services
New Coverage on Operating Systems
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.