I replaced my iPhone 16 Pro Max with a 360-degree camera for underwater videos - it was so worth it | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Mobile Accessories
I replaced my iPhone 16 Pro Max with a 360-degree camera for underwater videos - it was so worth it
Insta360's recently released update enhances underwater video content and adds another sports watch to the arsenal of diving stats.
Written by
Matthew Miller, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 3:50 a.m. PT
Insta360 X5 waterproof action camera
ZDNET's key takeaways The Insta360 is the premier camera for shooting underwater footage, for $549 on Amazon.Diving accessories such as the Invisible Dive Case and Floating Hand Grip ensure your X5 stays safe in the water.I had some pairing issues while on a dive. View now at Amazon I recently spent a week in Hawaii for my daughter's wedding, and captured some fantastic underwater video with the Insta360 X5. I went snorkeling with manta rays, explored the shoreline full of tropical fish, and swam alongside sea turtles with the action cam, then shared these amazing experiences with family and friends back home viewing my content from the safety of their couch. ZDNET's Ant Pruitt reviewed the Insta360 X5 a couple of months ago, and he praised its performance, so I had to try one out for myself. Although it had been several years since I used an Insta360 X series camera, I was thrilled to get the opportunity to test it out in the clear waters of Hawaii and couldn't have timed it better with the release of an update that provided new underwater capture features.Also: Why I recommend this 8K pocket camera over traditional shooters - especially at this priceWhat's new now is Insta360's diving update, bringing AquaVision 3.0 support to the Insta360 smartphone app and desktop Studio program. In addition, a diving stats dashboard is now available for Suunto watches, including the Suunto Race 2 that I recently reviewed.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Insta360 X5 action cam The Insta360 X5 action cam comes with a waterproof case and hand grip for easy shooting underwater.
details
View at Amazon The Insta360 X5 connects to either your smartphone with the Insta360 app or your computer via Wi-Fi or a direct or USB-C connection. You can also subscribe to Insta360 Plus and have all of your content synced to the cloud and then accessible from the Insta360 app on all of your devices. With the captured content now available in the Insta360 app, swing over to the right side to access the Media Processing options and you should see the AquaVision 3.0 toggle in the Color Restoration section of the app.With the invisible dive case and a floating hand grip, the camera stayed dry while snorkeling around the big island of Hawaii, but it did get warm while I was swimming in the sun. Regardless, I was able to capture awesome footage of manta rays, sea turtles, and a large variety of fish whose Hawaiian names I cannot pronounce.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETFamily and friends were blown away by the footage I showed them on my Z Fold 7. The AquaVision 3.0 menu option offers four color profiles that work with the AquaVision feature, and the Insta360 AI algorithm does the rest. The waters of Hawaii are already clear, but the AquaVision profiles definitely enhanced the footage while also letting you choose the image's temperature and saturation levels.Also: One of the most underrated smartwatches I've tested just set a 55-hour battery life recordI highly recommend the evening snorkeling adventure with manta rays off the coast of Kona. We had 15 large rays swimming and feeding on plankton below our light boards, and thanks to the Insta360 X5 I was able to share this experience with people who were unable to make the trip out with us. We even had a Galapagos shark show up, and without the footage captured by the X5 I don't think people would have believed the eight-foot predator was swimming just below us.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETInsta360 also supports syncing metrics from a large variety of data sources, including Garmin, Strava, Coros, and more. My Suunto Race 2 smartwatch has a snorkeling mode and diving mode, and recently added support for the Insta360, giving me the perfect opportunity to test it out. One morning, I took the Insta360 X5 out with me, launched snorkeling mode on my Suunto Race 2 smartwatch, and was able to record two separate sessions -- but it wasn't until I returned home that I saw it never acquired the GPS signal. The video was fine, but it just didn't capture all the health metrics to sync with the video. I encourage you to test out the smartwatch pairing in advance if you want those metrics to appear on your video clips.Also: I took this 360-degree camera around the world - why it's still the most versatile gear I ownWhen you do have a reliable GPS signal, metrics for depth, duration, heart rate, and water temperature are available to overlay on your video. I even dove down to the bottom a few times and the Race 2 captured these dives, but for some reason I was unable to get the stats to show up on the video and think it may have something to do with the time zone change that may not have matched between the camera and the smartwatch. I guess I'll have to take another trip to Hawaii to test out this functionality.
Matthew Miller/ZDNETIn addition to the amazing underwater video and photos I shot with the Insta360 X5, I captured guest speeches at the rehearsal dinner, the sunset meet and greet cruise on a catamaran, and greetings from guests so I now have memories that will be enjoyed for decades thanks to Insta360. The video output is outstanding and the camera even picked up audio with background music playing.Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
I thought my iPhone 17 Pro Max camera couldn't get better - then I found this accessory
This versatile Insta360 8K, 360-degree action camera just hit an all-time-low price
A week later with iPhone Air, I'm both captivated and eagerly waiting for what's next
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use