You can stay on Windows 10 for another year for completely free, if you meet this condition
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
You can stay on Windows 10 for another year for completely free, if you meet this condition
By
Mahnoor Faisal
Published 8 hours ago
Mahnoor is a News Writer at XDA who has been in the professional writing game since her sophomore year of high school. While pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, she also has bylines esteemed publications like XDA's sister site, MakeUseOf, SlashGear, Laptop Mag, and Android Police.
Whether she's spending hours debugging code or staying up all night to watch a tech event, Mahnoor’s passion for technology is undeniable. She loves writing about all things tech, with a particular focus on iOS and macOS.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
The day many Windows users have been dreading is inching closer: Windows 10’s end-of-life. In case you’ve managed to tune out Microsoft’s gazillion reminders (like stripping away features you love), support for the operating system ends this October. What this means is that Windows 10 will stop receiving software updates starting October 14, 2025. Though Microsoft’s been doing everything it can to nudge people to upgrade to Windows 11, it’s also been loosening up every now and then and giving Windows 10 users a reason to stay put a little longer. For instance, in May, Microsoft decided to extend support for Microsoft 365 apps on Windows 10 for three more years. Then, in June, the Redmond-based giant added three completely free ways to enroll in the Extended Security Updates (ESU) program (instead of paying a $30 fee). But the free ways weren’t exactly free and came with strings attached (which I’ll explain below). Well, it looks like users can now stay on Windows 10 for another year and enroll in the Extended Security Updates program, but only if they meet one condition.
Users in Europe can stay on Windows 10 for free until 2026
As reported in a statement to Windows Latest, Microsoft has confirmed that it’ll allow regions in the European Economic Area (EEA) to continue receiving Windows 10 security updates without paying for Extended Security Updates (ESU). Microsoft said in a statement to Windows Latest:
In the European Economic Area, we’re making updates to the enrollment process to ensure it meets local expectations and delivers a secure, streamlined experience. Our goal is to support customers and provide them with options as they transition to Windows 11, with uninterrupted access to critical security updates.
Microsoft suddenly had this change of heart because consumer defense organizations like Euroconsumers challenged its decision to lock access to the program behind conditions that essentially benefited the company monetarily. Though users will still need to manually opt into extended security updates, they won’t need to pay or go through one of the free methods. Users outside the EEA will unfortunately still need to follow what Microsoft announced in June to get extended security updates for one more year if they aren’t willing to pay $30. They can either sign in with a Microsoft account and sync their PC settings to the cloud or redeem a thousand Microsoft Reward points.
Microsoft
Keep in mind that the ESU program only covers security updates. It won’t bring new features or quality-of-life improvements to Windows 10. Essentially, Microsoft is just patching vulnerabilities to keep the OS safe from attacks, not enhancing it in any way. Nonetheless, if you aren’t ready to bid farewell to Windows 10 just yet, want your PC to receive free security updates, and live in the EEA, you’re in luck!
Windows
Windows 10
Microsoft
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
2 days ago
If you pre-ordered Borderlands 4 on the Switch 2, I have bad news: the game has been delayed, but you might get a refund
2 days ago
I save space on my gaming console's hard drive by doing these 3 things all the time
2 days ago
This chair moves with you: LiberNovo Omni's pre-sale begins after record Kickstarter
15 hours ago
Even with the world's highest electricity prices, my high-end PC isn't the energy hog I expected
Today's best deals
This retro-inspired mechanical keyboard is all vibes and now just $44
1 hour ago
This rare discount makes the AMD Ryzen 7 9800X3D the ultimate CPU for your next gaming PC build
4 hours ago
This legendary triple-A FPS series is currently $10 for six games on Steam
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This official Raspberry Pi keyboard has the computer built inside of it, but you may not like the price
4 ways I use Perplexity that have nothing to do with research
I built a calendar-aware smart home with Home Assistant
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.