Cocoa production in the Democratic Republic of the Congo - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Introduction of cocoa and early history
2
Production and export
3
Challenges
Toggle Challenges subsection
3.1
Armed conflict
3.2
Environmental impact
4
References
Toggle the table of contents
Cocoa production in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Add languages
Add links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Cocoa is grown as a cash crop in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), primarily in the eastern provinces of North Kivu and Ituri, with smaller operations in the country's west. The cocoa tree (Theobroma cacao) was introduced to the country in the late 19th century, but it was not until the 1920s and 1930s that cocoa plantations were established along the Congo River. Colonial-era production of cocoa peaked just before the DRC's independence in 1960 and stagnated afterwards.
The industry has seen a revival since 2007, with recent outputs surpassing colonial-era records. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations reported an output of 35,000 tonnes of cocoa from the DRC in 2023. However, Congolese cocoa farmers face disproportionately high levels of theft and violence, as most established plantations are located in conflict-ridden areas. Cocoa farming has also been linked to deforestation in the DRC.
Introduction of cocoa and early history[edit]
The cocoa tree arrived in what is now the DRC in the late 19th century, when the country was privately controlled by Leopold II of Belgium as the Congo Free State. However, organised production did not begin until the 1920s and 1930s, when cocoa plantations were established along the Congo River. About 20,000 hectares (49,000 acres) of land, mostly in the western DRC, were set aside to grow cocoa.[1] This grew to a peak of 25,000 hectares (62,000 acres) by the time of DRC's independence from Belgium in 1960. The industry's growth, however, halted after independence due to colonial plantation owners leaving the DRC.[1]
Production and export[edit]
Cocoa pods on a Forastero tree
In the DRC, cocoa is grown primarily in the eastern provinces of North Kivu and Ituri. Beni in North Kivu is particularly suited for cocoa cultivation because of its fertile soil. There are also surviving colonial-era plantations in western provinces such as Équateur. Most cocoa harvested in the DRC comes from Forastero trees, with smaller quantities from Trinitario trees.[1][2]
Cocoa exports have grown significantly since attempts at reviving the industry began around 2007. The DRC exported only 600 tonnes of cocoa in 2000; this number grew to 10,000 tonnes by 2015 and 63,971 tonnes (a value of US$144.5 million) by 2023.[1][3] Additionally, Al Jazeera reported in 2024 that a growing number of Congolese coffee farmers had switched to cocoa, which has the same growth period as coffee but requires less maintenance and can fetch higher prices.[4]
Limited chocolate production has also emerged in the DRC. For example, conservationists at Virunga National Park sold chocolate gorillas to celebrate its centenary in 2025, with all profits going towards conservation efforts. The chocolate gorillas were made by local chocolatiers from cocoa grown near the park.[5]
Challenges[edit]
Map of the Democratic Republic of the Congo with North Kivu and Ituri highlighted in red
Armed conflict[edit]
The DRC's two main cocoa-growing provinces, North Kivu and Ituri, have experienced decades of ethnic and religious violence, as well as armed conflict over control of resources.[4] Before the 2000s, cocoa farmers faced raids from the sangabalende, criminal groups that specialised in cocoa theft. The activities of the sangabalende have since been supplanted by those of the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), an Islamist militant group.[2][6] A number of cocoa farmers in North Kivu have been killed by the ADF, with survivors also blaming other rebel groups and the armed forces of the DRC (FARDC).[3][6] FARDC soldiers sent by the government to protect farmers from the ADF have been accused of levying additional taxes on cocoa and stealing from abandoned plantations.[2] Ugandan soldiers operating alongside the FARDC provide additional security, but Congolese cocoa farmers have accused Ugandan buyers of leveraging the Ugandan soldiers' presence to impose prices set by Uganda and export their crop as Ugandan cocoa.[2]
Violence in North Kivu and Ituri has also jeopardised the certified status of cocoa in the DRC, most of which is double-certified as organic and UTZ-compliant.[1] In early 2025, the European Union warned it may revoke its recognition of certified labels on Congolese cocoa because its inspectors could not safely work in the conflict-affected region.[2]
Environmental impact[edit]
Large swathes of the Congo Basin have been deforested for cocoa plantations. Researchers have compared cocoa-driven deforestation in the DRC to that in West Africa, where it is a significant issue.[7][8][9] Researchers have also suggested that higher cocoa prices driven by the ongoing cocoa crisis may exacerbate the problem.[10]
References[edit]
^ a b c d e Nieburg, Oliver (19 July 2017). "Cocoa in the Congo: Emerging origin for organic chocolate makers". Confectionery News. Archived from the original on 3 December 2024. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ a b c d e Adewole, Segun (15 March 2025). "Armed groups covet cocoa in eastern DR Congo". Agence France-Presse. Retrieved 19 July 2025 – via The Guardian.
^ a b Bojang Jr., Sheriff. "How cocoa became a conflict commodity in eastern DRC". The Africa Report. Retrieved 14 August 2025.
^ a b Kimonyo, Anicet (19 July 2024). "In DRC's Ituri, uncertainty for coffee farmers amid conflict, climate woes". Al Jazeera. Archived from the original on 2 March 2025. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ Muyisa, Gradel (25 April 2025). "War-hit Congo park turns to chocolate gorillas in conservation push". Reuters. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ a b "Congolese cocoa waits for peace to pursue sweet future". Agence France-Presse. 19 December 2016. Archived from the original on 8 February 2023. Retrieved 19 July 2025 – via Africanews.
^ Rasolofomboahangy, Valisoa (16 November 2022). "Can a luxury chocolate company help a Congolese forest?". Mongabay. Archived from the original on 28 March 2025. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ Vyawahare, Malavika (18 February 2022). "DRC's cacao boom leaves a bitter aftertaste for Congo Basin forest". Mongabay. Archived from the original on 23 April 2025. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ Cocoa: Driver of Deforestation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo?. CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (Report). 1 April 2014. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ Evans, Monica (7 July 2024). "Higher income from cocoa may lead to Congo Basin deforestation". Center for International Forestry Research. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
vte Economy of the Democratic Republic of the CongoCurrency: Congolese francCommunications
Banking
Communications
History of trade
Transportation
Industries:
Energy
Mining (Copper mining)
Tourism
Agriculture
Banana
Cassava
Cocoa
Coffee
Maize
Palm oil
Peanut
Pineapple
Rice
Rubber
Sorghum
Sugarcane
Sweet potato
Yam
vteChocolateCocoa bean
Chocolate liquor
Cocoa butter
Cocoa solids
Theobroma cacao
Types
Components
Anandamide
Caffeine
Endorphins
Enkephalin
Flavan-3-ol
Lecithin
Phenethylamine
Phenylalanine
Salsolinol
Tetramethylpyrazine
Theobromine
Theophylline
Tryptamine
Tryptophan
Tyramine
Tyrosine
Valeric acid
Types
Baking
Compound
Couverture
Dark
Gianduja
Milk
Organic
Raw
Ruby
White
Products
Beverages
Caffè mocha
Milk
Hot chocolate
Liqueur
Biscuit
Brownie
Cake
Chocolate bar
Brands
Chocolate chip
Chocolate chip cookie
Chocolate-covered foods
Chocolate crackles
Chocolate crinkle
Cioccolato di Modica
Coins
Fudge
Ganache
Gravy
Ice cream
Mole
Pudding
Spread
Syrup
Truffle
Processes
Aeration
Broma process
Conching
Dutch process
Enrober
Sugar crust
Tempering
Industry
Bean-to-bar
Manufacturers
Chocolaterie
Chocolatier
Côte d'Ivoire–Ghana Cocoa Initiative
Environmental impact
Fair trade cocoa
Child labour in cocoa production
Harkin–Engel Protocol
International Cocoa Organization
International Cocoa Quarantine Centre
Production by country
Brazil
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Ghana
Ghana Cocoa Board
Ivory Coast
Nigeria
Papua New Guinea
Samoa
São Tomé and Príncipe
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
World Cocoa Foundation
By country
Belgium
France
Switzerland
Other topics
Chocolate bloom
Chocolate fountain
Chocolate museums
Chocolatiers
Cocoa smuggling
History
In savory cooking
Military chocolate
Switzerland
United States
Category
Outline
Glossary
vteCocoa production in AfricaSovereign states
Algeria
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Republic of the Congo
Djibouti
Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Gabon
The Gambia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Ivory Coast
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé and Príncipe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Sudan
Tanzania
Togo
Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia
Zimbabwe
States with limitedrecognition
Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic
Somaliland
Dependencies andother territories
Canary Islands / Ceuta / Melilla (Spain)
Madeira (Portugal)
Mayotte / Réunion (France)
Saint Helena / Ascension Island / Tristan da Cunha (United Kingdom)
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cocoa_production_in_the_Democratic_Republic_of_the_Congo&oldid=1307329976"
Categories: Economy of the Democratic Republic of the CongoCocoa productionChocolate industryHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description with empty Wikidata description
This page was last edited on 23 August 2025, at 00:32 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Cocoa production in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Add languages
Add topic