Best Home Security Systems for Renters in 2025: Compact and Movable - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
HomeHome Security Security Services
Best Home Security Systems for Renters in 2025: Compact and Movable
Just because you're renting doesn't mean you have to skip on home security. These systems are ideal for tenants taking their own safety measures.
Our Experts
Written by
Tyler Lacoma
Written by
David Anders
Article updated on September 17, 2025 at 4:00 AM PDT
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen! Expertise Smart home | Smart security | Home tech | Energy savings | A/V
See full bio
David Anders Former Senior Writer David covered broadband providers, smart home devices and security products. Expertise Broadband providers | Home internet | Security cameras
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Price
Are you will to pay around $200 for a starter security system for an apartment? Would you prefer to save more money with fewer devices? How do you feel about paying a subscription fee that usually starts around $15 for these kinds of systems? Are you willing to pay much more for professional home monitoring?
Installation
Does the system have options like adhesive to install without significantly damaging walls? Is it easy to pack up and move with you?
Sensors
Does the security kit come with basic sensors for front door contact and additional sensors to monitor a window or entryway?
App
Is the app easy to use and intuitive for first-timers? Does it make setup easy? Can you quickly arm or disarm the system from the app?
Smart device compatibility
Does the system integrate with your preferred smart home platform, such as Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, or Apple HomeKit? Can it work with third-party smart home devices?
Additional devices
Is it easy to add more sensors to the security system? Does it support add-ons like cameras or smart locks if you ever want to expand?
vs
Compare
Back to selection
When renters want to install their own home security, they run into a problem: Many security systems aren't compatible with the terms of the lease and alterations tenants need to avoid. Landlords are rarely willing to budge on this part. But some security brands have taken extra steps so that renters can install and move them as necessary, without any drill holes or other complex changes. Here are my favorites after testing dozens of these kinds of systems. Our Picks
Best overall home security system for renters Ring Alarm 5-Piece Kit (2nd Gen)
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best tiny security system for renters Aqara Protect Kit Y100
Jump to details
$140 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best home security system for renters with other smart tech Abode Security Hub 5-Piece Kit
Jump to details
$160 at Abode
Jump to details
Best compact home security system for renters Arlo Dual Sensor Home Security System
Jump to details
$150 at Amazon
Jump to details
Best adhesive-based home security system for renters Simplisafe The Foundation Kit
Jump to details
$150 at SimpliSafe
Jump to details
Best video doorbell alternative for renters Ring Peephole Cam
Jump to details
$100 at Amazon
Jump to details
Show 1 more
HOME SECURITY DEALS OF THE WEEK
Ring Alarm 5-Piece Kit With Plug-In Outdoor Cam Plus:  $250 (save $50)
Ring Alarm 8-Piece Kit With Outdoor Cam Plus and Doorbell:  $400 (save $50)
Ring Alarm Pro 13-Piece Kit With Eero Wi-Fi 6 Router:  $400 (save $100)
Eufy Security 5-Piece Home Alarm Kit:  $94 (save $66) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Home Security Systems for Renters in 2025: Compact and Movable
What are the best home security systems for renters?
Best security systems for renters of 2025
Best overall home security system for renters
Best tiny security system for renters
Best home security system for renters with other smart tech
Best compact home security system for renters
Best adhesive-based home security system for renters
Best video doorbell alternative for renters
Security systems for renters compared
How we test home security systems
Other home security systems for renters we tested
Is it legal for a renter to install their own security system?
Factors to consider when choosing a home security system for renters
FAQs
What are the best home security systems for renters?
Ring/CNETAfter years of extensively testing home security systems for renters, we know what to look out for. That's why our best choice is the Ring Alarm five-piece kit. Not only does it have a great variety of sensors but it's also affordable and so easy to install that it's guaranteed not to leave your apartment with any damage. Better yet, uninstalling it is simple too, so you can take it and move it to a new home with no difficulty. Read more: 11 of the Best Smart Home GiftsBut if you'd like to look at more options, we've included a great list below, including smart home devices like the compact all-in-one sensor kit from Arlo and a highly effective Ring peephole camera. The latter is particularly beneficial for apartment buildings. If you want to know more about security, you can check out even more of our valuable CNET guides about cheap home security systems and affordable home security cameras.Best security systems for renters of 2025
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best overall home security system for renters
Ring Alarm 5-Piece Kit (2nd Gen)
Pros
Easy installation
Compact design
Easy to add more sensors
Alexa voice controls
Effective app
Cons
Requires a Ring Protect plan to enable very important features
We found Ring Alarm’s security kit easy to set up, with a compact keypad that’s very at home in a small entryway. With a contact sensor for the front door and a motion detector for sensitive areas, it’s just the right size for an apartment or similar rental. The Ring app is also very effective, with a relatively easy UI to learn and plenty of options for control or monitoring. Sensors come with options for adhesive installs to lessen impact.We like the Ring Alarm a bit better than the Ring Alarm Pro kit, especially for renters. The Pro option comes with a router that must be used to enable certain features, which can hamstring existing router setups. Renters will be happier with this simpler -- and more affordable -- package.One important note: This kit really needs a Ring Protect plan to enable key features, including mobile notifications and arm/disarm options, in the app. We can’t recommend this system without Protect, but it will cost at least $5 per month. Bump that up to $20, and you can get access to professional home monitoring.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
$150 at Best Buy
Specs & Configurations
Sensors
Contact sensor, motion detector, range extenderSubscription options
Ring Protect plans from $5 to $20 per month (suggested)Smart device support
Amazon AlexaStarting price
$200
Learn more
Ring Alarm 5-Piece Kit (2nd Gen) review
Add to compare
Tyler Lacoma
Photo Gallery 1/1
Tyler Lacoma
Best tiny security system for renters
Aqara Protect Kit Y100
Pros
Tiny, affordable security
A 2K pan/tilt camera with great video clarity
Sensors that are effective and easy to set up
Compatibility with other platforms, including Apple
Cons
Not every renter may want a camera (although it does include a privacy mode)
More intricate home routine options can be confusing or hard to find
Aqara's security system isn't just adhesive-based and renter-friendly, it's also super small and guaranteed not to get in the way. The 2K pan/tilt camera offers smart detection features and two-way audio while also acting as a hub. It supports a little motion sensor, access sensor and vibration sensor that you can put nearly anywhere, from under a table to over a cabinet drawer. Aqara's sytem is a cinch to set up and works with major voice assistants like Amazon Alexa, Apple Home/Siri and Google Home/Gemini (although some features may be limited if you control it through these platforms). There's a lot to tinker with when it comes to customizing security routines in Aqara's app, but renters can stick with basic alerts and alarms if they don't want to go through all of that, making this kit easy to recommend for a variety of tenants.  ... Show more
Get it now
$140 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Sensors
1 base camera hub, 1 motion sensor, 1 vibration sensor, 1 open/shut sensorSubscription options
Optional cloud storage and feature subscription Smart device support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Gemini, Apple HomeStarting price
95
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best home security system for renters with other smart tech
Abode Security Hub 5-Piece Kit
Pros
Very affordable
Mini sensor can fit anywhere
Excellent third-party support
Apple support with a system upgrade
Cons
Only one sensor included in base kit
Abode’s starter kit is extra simple, with only one mini sensor to monitor a door or window, but it’s also one of the most affordable systems available. You can easily expand the system when you want to. In fact, Abode offers some of the best third-party support around, working with Sonos devices, Bose devices, multiple smart locks and products from brands such as Ecobee, Philips Hue or LIFX. If your rental already has smart devices, Abode offers the best chance at compatibility.The security system can’t support Apple HomeKit or the Home app with this base version but if you want to upgrade to a more expensive four-piece system ($130), it can also work on the Apple platform. Not many DIY systems extend support this far, making this kit upgrade a good choice for Apple users. You can pay a subscription fee to get camera recording and more, but it’s not necessary for the baseline package.  ... Show more
Get it now
$160 at Abode
Specs & Configurations
Sensors
Mini door/window sensor, key fobSubscription options
$6 to $20 per monthSmart device support
Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, Sonos (Apple HomeKit with upgrade)Starting price
$180
Learn more
Abode Security Hub 5-Piece Kit review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best compact home security system for renters
Arlo Dual Sensor Home Security System
8.3
/10
SCORE
Pros
Compact 8-in-1 sensors
Easy to set up
Rare extras like light and leak detection
Highly customizable via app
Ideal for smaller spaces
Cons
No additional smart home integrations
Arlo has a different idea for a home security system that’s a perfect fit for apartments and small homes. This kit provides two all-in-one sensors that can measure up to eight things, including an opened door or window, motion detection, smoke or carbon monoxide leak detection, and even ambient light changes. That’s a very complete package and having two sensors means you can place them in the most sensitive areas of your home.This versatility makes Arlo’s system excellent for renters and particularly easy to set up once you’ve found the right spots. You can mix and match detection functions to cover exactly what you want and avoid unnecessary updates or info. The Arlo Secure plan primarily covers security cameras until the highest tiers start to offer professional home monitoring, so don’t consider it a requirement for these sensors when starting.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at Amazon
Specs & Configurations
Sensors
2 8-in-a sensors for motion, contact points, leaks and moreSubscription options
$8 to $30 per monthSmart device support
N/AStarting price
$200 Score Breakdown
Performance
8
Usability
10
Features
8
Design
7
Learn more
Arlo Dual Sensor Home Security System review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best adhesive-based home security system for renters
Simplisafe The Foundation Kit
Pros
Good design
Easy starter package
Usually affordable with common discounts
Cons
Some very good features lock behind the self-monitoring plan
One of the SimpliSafe facets we like is the customized kit options for the size of your home, no sign-ups or estimates required. The Foundation Kit is one of the best options for renters who may have smaller homes. It's equipped with the basics, including an entry sensor and motion sensor to help you get started. SimpliSafe’s keypad and sensor designs are excellent, easy to fit and mount in small spaces, and come with adhesive strips for minimal impact.SimpliSafe does have a self-monitoring plan for about $10 per month, which is more useful with a camera, but does add features such as remote arming/disarming and push notifications if an alarm goes off.  ... Show more
Get it now
$150 at SimpliSafe
Specs & Configurations
Sensors
Entry sensor, motion sensorSubscription options
$10 to $30 per monthSmart device support
Amazon Alexa, Google Home/Assistant, Some Apple Watch compatibilityStarting price
$150
Learn more
Simplisafe The Foundation Kit review
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Best video doorbell alternative for renters
Ring Peephole Cam
Pros
Small cam design that can qualify for apartment buildings
Motion detection
Two-way audio
Doorbell detection
No sensor placement required
Cons
Alexa-only support
Check your apartment rules first
This unique security camera offers an important alternative to small security systems. After reviewing it, we're happy to include it as an option for renters who want to focus less on sensors and more on a camera view with motion detection.The Peephole Cam sits mostly on the inside of the door, over the peephole common in apartment buildings, usually without violating rules against using security cams out in the halls. It includes two-way audio as well as motion sensors, plus doorbell detection. Ring’s motion detection lets you customize what you want to focus on.While the cam plays very well with Alexa, it would be nice to have additional voice assistant compatibility, but Ring is an Amazon brand after all. The Ring Protect subscription is only necessary if you want to record and share videos.  ... Show more
Get it now
$100 at Amazon
$100 at Best Buy
$130 at The Home Depot
Specs & Configurations
Sensors
Motion detectionSubscription options
Ring Protect starting at $5 per monthAmazon Alexa
Amazon AlexaStarting price
$130
Learn more
Ring Peephole Cam review
Add to compareSecurity systems for renters compared
Best home security systems for rentersRing Alarm 5-Piece Kit (2nd-gen)Aqara Protect Kit Y100Abode Security Hub 5-PieceArlo Dual Sensor Home Security SystemSimplisafe The Foundation KitRing Peephole Cam System price $200160$140$200$250$130Subscription price Ring Protect plans from $5 to $20 per month (encouraged)Optional cloud storage and feature subscription $6 to $20 per monthArlo Secure $8 to $25 per month (not necessary)$10 to $30 per monthRing Protect plans from $5 to $20Starter equipment Base station, keypad, contact sensor, motion detector, range extender1 base camera hub, 1 motion sensor, 1 vibration sensor, 1 open/shut sensorSecurity hub, mini door/window sensor, key fobKeypad, 2 8-in-1 sensorsBase station, keypad, entry sensor, motion sensorVideo doorbell for apartmentsContract or professional install required? NoNoNoNoNoNoProfessional home monitoring Yes with Pro subscriptionNoYes with Pro planYes with Safe & Secure PlanYes with all except self-monitoring planNoReview score 7.588.38.38.57.8
Best Home Security Cameras for Apple HomeKit and Siri in 2025
See at CNET
How we test home security systems
Karen Freeman/CNETFor each system we test, we install it ourselves just as you would at home, or we have an installer come set it up in the case of professional systems like ADT and Comcast Xfinity. Once it's installed, we spend at least a week testing the system and all the device-by-device features. Our ranking puts a priority on value, but also takes into strong consideration the quality of hardware, service and general user experience, including how easy it was to set up and the frequency of false alarms. For more robust information on any of the recommended security systems above, please read the full reviews.If you want to read more about our review process, check out our in-depth article on how we test home security systems and services. Other home security systems for renters we tested
VivintRing Alarm Pro Kit: Ring Alarm Pro upgrades the security system in a few ways, but that makes it a poor fit for apartments. It’s much more expensive and the required Wi-Fi 6 router isn’t necessary for renters who likely already have a router of their own.Wyze Home Security System: Wyze offers an affordable, nimble system, but unfortunately comes with a bucketload of recent security issues that have caused us to pull our recommendations for the time being.ADT Security Systems: ADT's new ADT+ system is an improvement, but the company still struggles with long-term contracts and insanely expensive subscriptions, two of the worst things for renters.Vivint Home Security: Vivint can customize a security system for a small area, but their process is opaque and requires professional installation. For apartment owners who may be moving in the future, we prefer non-contract DIY systems with fewer strings attached.Frontpoint systems: Frontpoint offers some excellent DIY systems, but you are herded into a very expensive professional home monitoring subscription that’s a poor fit for any renter. Is it legal for a renter to install their own security system?
AbodeUsually, renters can install security systems as long as they don't cause damage to doors, walls, etc. However, you should always look at your lease first if you aren't sure. Some owners include a section in leases that says only the owner can make security additions to the home. If you still want a security system but you spot one of these lease restrictions, you should contact your landlord or property management company and ask if you can install a no-damage, nonpermanent security system. Remember, you can easily take home security systems like these with you if you move. Factors to consider when choosing a home security system for renters
AbodePriceHome security systems tend to start at several hundred dollars and go up as you add more devices. That can be a tough price point for any renter, which is why we focused on kits available for $200 and below whenever possible. Keep in mind, subscription fees can add $15 to $30 per month if you want lots of extra features or monitoring.Finally, be wary of the prices of major home security platforms such as Vivint, Frontpoint and others. Many run perennial deals that don’t often represent the products very accurately, while others may want you to sign up for a quote before revealing any pricing information.InstallationWe know renters want to keep their walls clean and get their deposits back, so we favored systems that could be set up using adhesives or careful placement rather than drilling. This also makes the system easier to take with you when you move.SensorsEven small home security systems come with a front door sensor and easy disarm options that are ideal for renters. But we also like to see extras thrown in at these prices. Our Ring Alarm pick, for example, it’s a motion detector and range extender to help offer more complete coverage. Some brands like Arlo offer sensors with multiple functions, which are an especially good fit for smaller spaces. House renters may want to add extra sensors for additional windows and backdoors, which will bump up the price.AppApp controls are important when setting up a security system with multiple devices. We look for apps that are intuitive and enable quick systems. Apps should allow you to check on the status any specific device, add new devices and arm or disarm at will.Smart device compatibilityIf you already have a smart device like a Nest speaker or Echo Show, you should look for a home security system that can work with it for more alert options. Apple and Siri compatibility are the hardest to find, although DIY systems like more advanced Abode kits do include. We’re ranking this factor a little lower than usual, because with hubs (usually included) and without cameras (usually not included in starter kits) there’s less need for smart integration.Power optionsWireless systems are a often must-have for the easy DIY renters are looking for. You may also see options for battery backup power during power failures or cellular connections when your Wi-Fi is down, but that will cost extra.Additional devicesGood systems for renters include options to easily add more devices to the system, preferably both from the brand and from third party smart devices. This makes it easy for renters to expand when they spot a new need or move to a larger location.Best Home Security Cameras Without a Subscription for 2025
See at CNET
FAQs
Do I need a subscription for an apartment system system?
Self-monitoring without a subscription (getting alerts on your phone, etc.) is usually possible with DIY systems, including the systems we’ve listed above. However, subscriptions tend to add a lot features, such as power back-ups, more support for third-party devices, more arming modes and even professional home monitoring.For systems like our Ring Alarm pick, a subscription is essentially required to use the system. For other systems we chose, like our Abode pick or the Arlo all-in-on sensors, subscriptions are less necessary.
Show more
Can you install a security system in a rental?
You can add a home security system to your rented apartment or home, but a DIY, noninvasive system (one that does not require drilling into walls or doors, or rewiring a doorbell, for example) will often be your best bet. Your lease may have more information, but generally these lightweight security systems are legal.
Show more
Should I put a security camera in my apartment?
An exterior camera, unless reserved to private spaces like your back patio, is generally not recommended for apartments. They're outlawed in apartment buildings (and easily stolen or broken, too). Landlords may allow them in house rentals but you may need to ask permission first or let them handle it.On the other hand, there are many reasons why you may want to add a security camera or two inside. Smart home cameras are great ways to monitor kids from another room or pets when you're out of the house. As for security, a camera may capture images or videos of intruders and send you an alert. Furthermore, the presence of a security camera is often enough to deter a potential burglar, so consider placing a camera somewhere it can be easily seen by others.
Show more
How can I secure my apartment?
Installing a home security system that monitors entryways and the interior of your apartment is one of the best ways to secure your dwelling, but there are other measures you can take. It's a good idea to keep any valuables out of sight, especially from windows (where someone may see them from the outside). Remember, apartment buildings may have rules against exterior security cams, but you may be able to use devices like the Ring Peephole Cam.The buddy system can be a free but invaluable way to enhance your apartment's security: Make friends with your neighbors, communicate suspicious activity and ask them to keep an eye on your property while you keep an eye on theirs. You may also want to consider renter's insurance to minimize losses in the event of a burglary or other security breach. To learn more about home security for apartments, check out these home security tips for apartments.
Show more
What home security systems support matter?
Matter (along with the related Thread) is a standard that adds security and compatibility to smart home devices, especially when it comes to support for popular platforms like Apple HomeKit, Google Home, or Alexa. Matter is an excellent sign of an up-to-date, user-friendly device, but it’s still limited on the home security front. If you’re looking for a single smart lock or similar device, we recommend looking for a Matter-compatible model. But Matter hasn’t rolled out to hub-based security system kits like these, at least not for now.
Show more
What is the best affordable security system for renters?
If you want to save as much money as possible, think about choosing a single camera or a doorbell like the Ring Peephole Cam. Models like these can include motion detection, object recognition, audio, sirens and a lot more, functioning like a mini home security system in one device. If you really need multiple sensors at different locations, look for an affordable entry-level, DIY system, like Abode's starter kit.
Show more
Don't miss any of CNET's unbiased tech content and lab-based reviews. Add us as a preferred Google source on Chrome.
About the Author
Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security Tyler Lacoma Editor / Home Security
For more than 10 years Tyler has used his experience in smart home tech to craft how-to guides, explainers, and recommendations for technology of all kinds. From using his home in beautiful Bend, OR as a testing zone for the latest security products to digging into the nuts and bolts of the best data privacy guidelines, Tyler has experience in all aspects of protecting your home and belongings. With a BA in Writing from George Fox and certification in Technical Writing from Oregon State University, he's ready to get you the details you need to make the best decisions for your home. On off hours, you can find Tyler exploring the Cascade trails, finding the latest brew in town with some friends, or trying a new recipe in the kitchen!
Read full bio
Also written by
David Anders Former Senior Writer
Home Security Guides
Security Cameras
Best Home Security Camera
Best Outdoor Home Security Cameras
Best Cheap Home Security Cameras
Best Indoor Home Security Cameras
Best Wireless Home Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbell Cameras
Best Ring Video Doorbells
Best Nanny Cams
Arlo Pro 4 Review
Ring Alarm Pro Review
Security Services
Best Home Security System
Best Home Security for Renters
Best Cheap Home Security Systems
Best DIY Home Security Systems
Vivint Home Security Review
Simplisafe vs. Ring
ADT Home Security Review
ADT vs. Vivint
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.