Best Treadmills of 2025 Tested by a Running Expert
- CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessFitness Fitness Equipment
I'm a Runner with Over 15 Years of Running Experience. These Are the Best Treadmills of 2025
Looking for a home treadmill? These they offer every feature you need to stay fit.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Written by
Medically Reviewed
Article updated on August 31, 2025 at 6:00 AM PDT
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Reviewed by: Valerie Cholet
Dr. Valerie Cholet is a Professor of Kinesiology. She earned her doctorate at Penn State University and has taught in higher education for over 20 years. Her areas of specialization include Exercise Physiology, Exercise Prescription, Health and Physical Education, Philosophy of Women in Sport, and Embodied Philosophy. Expertise Exercise physiology | Exercise prescription | Health and physical education | Philosophy of women in sport | Embodied philosophy
Education Penn State University, DEd in Adult Education and Teaching -- Arcadia University, MS in Elementary Education -- Penn State University, BS in Kinesiology and Exercise Science See more
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
What to consider
Treadmills can be a significant investment, so you'll want to take several factors into account before buying.
Budget
Set yourself a budget and figure out how much you're willing to spend; you can get a quality treadmill on a budget, or splurge for extra features. Similarly, determine whether you want a smart treadmill with a touchscreen and virtual classes, or if you prefer a simpler model without a touchscreen that provides basic metrics.
Size
Consider the size of the treadmill and how much space you have in your home to fit one. Decide if you want the treadmill to be foldable for saving space and easy storage.
Workouts
Take your workout plans into account; do you plan on using it more for running or walking? Consider if multiple people in your household will be using the treadmill and if you need one that can handle various heights and weights. Also, consider whether you're okay with a treadmill that makes some noise or if you prefer it to be silent.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
As the weather starts getting colder, chances are you're looking for ways to stay active indoors. Perhaps you've got the itch to run your first 5K, 10K, half or full marathon in the upcoming year, so you'll need to train regularly even when temperatures drop outside. That's exactly why running inside on a treadmill is an excellent alternative. Running has some well-known benefits for your heart and mental health. There's also the convenience of getting to exercise from the comfort of your home. Our Picks
Best overall treadmill NordicTrack Commercial 2450
Jump to details
$2,499 at NordicTrack
Jump to details
Best treadmill splurge Peloton Tread
Jump to details
$2,695 at Peloton
Jump to details
Best budget treadmill Horizon 7.0 AT Treadmill
Jump to details
$999 at Horizon Fitness
Jump to details
Best heavy duty treadmill BowFlex Treadmill 10
Jump to details
10% off any treadmill with code 2/1-3/31 with code:
CNET10
$1,799 at Bowflex
Jump to details
Best compact treadmill Echelon Stride (Style discontinued)
Jump to details
$1,400 at Echelon
Jump to details
FITNESS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 42mm, Black, S/M 130-180mm, Sports Band):  $299 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Wi-Fi, 40mm, S/M Green):  $199 (save $101)
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $72 (save $39)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $190 (save $110)
Fitbit Charge 6 Fitness Tracker (Black):  $110 (save $50) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
I'm a Runner with Over 15 Years of Running Experience. These Are the Best Treadmills of 2025
What is the best treadmill overall?
Best treadmills of 2025
Best treadmills for 2025, compared
How we test treadmills
How we rate fitness equipment
Other treadmills we tested
Treadmills we are currently testing
Factors to consider when choosing a treadmill
How to use a treadmill
Tips for running on a treadmill
How to care for your treadmill
Treadmill FAQ
Are treadmills good for weight loss?
Are there disadvantages to walking on a treadmill?
Can treadmills work without electricity?
Is a curved treadmill better than a traditional flat treadmill?
Not all treadmills are built the same, and the difference between them can be confusing. A Reddit thread shows many people have questions about treadmill motors, max speed capabilities and red flags to watch for when shopping.As both a runner and product tester, I've tested several treadmills, including popular models from Peloton, NordicTrack and BowFlex. For this guide, I considered crucial features like max speed, incline options and overall comfort to determine true value. If you're serious about fitness, these are the best treadmills that I recommend.Editor's note August 25, 2025: We're currently in the process of testing new products for this page. What is the best treadmill overall?The best overall treadmill we tested was hands down the Nordictrack Commercial 2450. It's on the bigger side, but it's worth it if you want all the features that come with a high-tech treadmill. The 22-inch adjustable touchscreen on this treadmill makes it easy to view your workout and to tilt if you'd like to do a separate workout on the floor. It has decline and incline settings, ranging from zero to 15% incline and up to 3% decline, which is not easy to come by on a treadmill. Through Nordictrack's iFit program, you can personalize your own running trail using Google Maps to exercise anywhere in the world. The most elite feature has to be Nordictrack's auto-adjust technology. This allows an iFit virtual instructor to adjust your incline and speed during class, so it feels like you're actually on the terrain featured during your workout. Read more: How to Beat Boredom on the TreadmillBest treadmills of 2025
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best overall treadmill
NordicTrack Commercial 2450
Pros
All heights can comfortably use this treadmill
Sleek look with a giant touchscreen
AutoAdjust technology simulates exercising outdoors
iFit membership offers classes other than running
Plenty of incline and declines
Cons
Expensive
Requires a lot of space
Needs a good Wi-Fi connection
Can't play music from a third-party app
The first thing I noticed about the NordicTrack Commercial 2450, NordicTrack's newest addition to its commercial treadmill series, is the touchscreen. It has a 22-inch HD touchscreen that resembles a desktop computer screen, so it's huge. It also tilts and pivots so you can adjust it for different uses, like if you want to take workout classes on the floor. The treadmill itself is also on the bigger side since it's a commercial treadmill, but it does fold up using its easylift assist feature, so if space is limited you can always prop up the belt. Assembling this treadmill can take about two and a half hours (as one of CNET's warehouse technicians estimated) and will require at least two people. NordicTrack does offer the option to include assembly in the delivery for an extra $299. This treadmill has both decline and incline options, ranging from zero to 15% incline and up to -3% decline. It's a rarity to find a treadmill that declines, so this is a unique feature. The speeds range from zero to 12 miles per hour and there are quick-touch control buttons on the console, which makes it easier to adjust your speed during interval training. To get the most out of the NordicTrack Commercial 2450, you will need an iFit membership that is included as part of a 30-day free trial upon purchase. Afterward, it will run you $39 a month. Besides treadmill workouts, iFit also offers other types of live and on-demand classes, so you can enjoy a variety of workouts on the floor. The treadmill uses Wi-Fi and Bluetooth so you can connect headphones, a smartwatch or a heart rate monitor. I thought it was a missed opportunity that this treadmill doesn't give you the option to connect your music through Spotify or Apple Music. You'll also want to make sure that you have decent Wi-Fi because it can get spotty if the treadmill has a hard time reading it. During the testing process, I enjoyed the smooth, quiet tread belt of the NordicTrack. This would be an ideal treadmill for both short and tall people since the tread belt is long and wide, and it has a 300-pound max user capacity. Although this treadmill has a touchscreen, it also has buttons for users who like having that option. Right beneath the screen, there's a fan and a console that has buttons that control the incline, decline, start, stop and speed buttons. The cup holders on this treadmill are on each side of the treadmill and are disappointingly on the smaller side. The most they can hold is a bottle or towel and your phone. I'm guessing it was designed this way to keep you focused on your workout instead of fiddling with your phone.I like how you have the option to run or walk in manual mode without taking a class, but iFit itself has a diverse group of classes to pick from. One of the interesting features iFit has is that you can create your own trail using Google Maps to exercise anywhere in the world. For example, if you want to run in Central Park, you can select the location to create that immersive experience during your run. The stand-out feature I was most impressed by was NordicTrack's AutoAdjust technology, which allows an iFit virtual instructor to adjust your incline and speed during class. You could be running or walking in the jungle and you'll notice the treadmill adjust to replicate that terrain. This hands-free option lets you focus on the class without having to fuss with any buttons. It's also a good way for runners who need to train for a race to get the outdoor feel indoors.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,499 at NordicTrack
Specs & Configurations
Price
$2,499Speed
0-12 mphIncline/decline
12% incline to -3% declineDimensions
LxWxH: 78.5 x 35.6 x 65 inchesWarranty
10-year frame, 2-year parts and 1-year laborBelt length
20 x 60 inches
Add to compare
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Gianmarco Chumbe/CNET
Best treadmill splurge
Peloton Tread
8.8
/10
SCORE
Pros
Ideal for most heights and sizes
Quiet
Smooth
Big HD touchscreen
Ideal for interval training
Cons
Expensive
Doesn't fold up
Won't fit all home spaces
No decline option
If you're familiar with Peloton's exercise equipment, then you know it all shares the same black sleek exterior with touches of red. The Peloton Tread is no different, but its stand-out feature is the 23.8-inch HD touchscreen. This makes it the treadmill with the biggest screen on this list. The Peloton Tread requires plenty of room since it's large and doesn't fold up. It's 59 inches long, so it can appropriately fit people of all heights, and you can tell by the width and length of the belt that it can comfortably fit someone over 6 feet tall. It has a 300-pound weight capacity. The Peloton Tread can go up to 12.5 miles per hour and has a maximum 12.5% incline, but no decline option. Its competitors NordicTrack and BowFlex can decline, so I was surprised that Peloton was lacking there. To control the speed, the Peloton Tread has a speed dial on the right and an incline knob on the left. This design is ideal if you're doing intervals, although I found the dial to lag when I tried to change the speed. Regardless, the Tread offers a smooth and mostly quiet ride. Another aspect I observed when testing is that the belt comes to an abrupt halt when you hit stop, instead of slowly coming to a stop. This may be part of the safety features Peloton incorporated after the 2021 Peloton Tread recall. The Peloton also has a safety key and a tread lock, which is a four-digit safety pin that you're required to enter to access the treadmill. I found the tread lock to be particularly annoying because I had to enter it every time I walked away from the treadmill momentarily. But I understand the need for it and think it's important, especially in a home with pets and children. Peloton doesn't have much to offer as far as a console goes; the plastic cup holder is just big enough to hold two water bottles. There is no fan. It looks a little more bare-bones than I expected considering this is the most expensive treadmill on the list. As with other Peloton exercise equipment, you need the $44-a-month All-Access membership to experience the classes. You also have the option to set it to just run or the scenic run mode, so you don't have to actively participate in an instructor-led run class. You can make an account for everyone in your household. I can see Peloton members gravitating towards the Peloton Tread because they're familiar with the software and brand, but the average consumer may be deterred by the high price and prefer a less expensive option.My favorite part about using the Peloton Tread is how crisp and clear the classes are on the HD touchscreen. Even compared to the NordicTrack 2450, which has similar screen dimensions, the Peloton Tread has it beat. You can view the instructor clearly along with your stats at the bottom of the screen and the leaderboard on the right-hand side.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,695 at Peloton
Specs & Configurations
Price
$2,995Speed
0-12.5mphIncline/decline
12.5% incline, no declineDimensions
LxWxH: 68 x 33 x 62 inchesWarranty
5-year frame, 3-year motor and belt, 1-year other components and laborBelt length
20 x 67 inches Score Breakdown
Software Ease of Use
10
Functionality
10
Warranty
4
Assembly
10
Features
10
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best budget treadmill
Horizon 7.0 AT Treadmill
6.4
/10
SCORE
Pros
Inexpensive
Easy to use
Appropriate for people of most heights and sizes
Ideal for those who want a treadmill without the added extras
Quiet
Saves you money by letting you pair the treadmill to most third-party app
Cons
Large
Bluetooth connectivity can be spotty
Doesn't have a touchscreen
You need a tablet or phone to view third-party app workouts
No smart features
No decline option
The Horizon 7.0 AT treadmill looks like a commercial treadmill at the gym without the bells and whistles. It's also fairly priced and the only treadmill on this list under $1,000. This treadmill took our technician two hours to assemble, but you have the option of white glove delivery and assembly for an additional $349. You will need to make sure you measure out the space in your home since this treadmill is pretty big, measuring 76.5 inches long and 36 inches wide. It does fold up, but similar to some of the other treadmills on this list, you still need to make sure you have enough room to store it upright. One of the first things you'll notice about the Horizon 7.0 AT treadmill is that it doesn't have a touchscreen. Instead, the console has two display screens: a 7-inch LCD screen that shows your metrics during a workout, and right beneath it other smaller screens that display time, speed, distance, calories burned, incline, heart rate and pace. It doesn't have the most modern features and looks like it was designed in the '80s or '90s, but it's still functional. Despite lacking the smart capabilities of its competitors, it's a solid machine with a long belt measuring 60-by-20 inches, long enough for taller individuals to run on comfortably. It has a weight capacity of 325 pounds. The treadmill is on the quieter side, which is good if you're planning on cranking up the speed or doing intervals. Speaking of intervals, Horizon designed this treadmill to have quick-dial knobs on the shorter handles that stick out of the front of the console. The knobs are easy to turn forward to pick up the speed or incline or to turn back if you want to decrease them. The Peloton Tread has a similar feature on the side of its tread, but I found that Horizon's design makes more sense. The Horizon treadmill goes up to 12 miles per hour and can hit an incline of up to 15%. This treadmill doesn't decline. One of the things that sets this treadmill apart from a NordicTrack, BowFlex or even Peloton model is that you aren't required to buy any additional workout programs to use it. You can use it on its own or you can connect it to apps you already own, including iFit or Peloton, Zwift, Nike Run Club and Apple Fitness Plus. You can also connect to apps such as Netflix, Hulu or Spotify. Full transparency: I struggled to connect my phone to the treadmill, despite following the instructions verifying that my Bluetooth was on. Other reviewers have had better luck. CNET contributor Lindsay Boyer previously tested the Horizon T101 (another Horizon treadmill) and was able to successfully connect to the iFit app.Additional features on this treadmill include a fan, heart rate sensors and automatic and manual programs. It also has USB and headphone ports if you need to charge your phone or prefer to wear wired headphones. If you ask me, there's nothing wrong with a treadmill that sticks to the basics.  ... Show more
Get it now
$999 at Horizon Fitness
Specs & Configurations
Price
$999Speed
0.5-12mphIncline/decline
15% incline, no declineDimensions
LxWxH: 76 x 35 x 66 inchesWarranty
Lifetime frame and motor warranty; parts and labor warranty costs extraBelt length
60 x 20 inches Score Breakdown
Software Ease of Use
4
Functionality
6
Warranty
10
Assembly
8
Features
4
Add to compare
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Photo Gallery 1/1
Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNET
Best heavy duty treadmill
BowFlex Treadmill 10
7.6
/10
SCORE
Pros
Can handle people of different weights and sizes
JRNY membership is affordable
Has decline and incline options
Can stream third-party apps like Hulu and Netflix
Highest decline option of all the treadmills on the list
Belt length is appropriate for even taller people
Cons
Expensive
It's large and requires adequate space
May not connect to all wearables
The BowFlex Treadmill 10 is ideal for those looking for a heavy-duty treadmill. It has the highest weight capacity of all the treadmills on this list at 400 pounds -- most cap out at around 300 pounds. It's also the biggest one on the list, measuring 85 by 39.6 by 65.3 inches. According to our technician, assembly took about three and a half hours and can be tedious because of the different pieces you have to install. BowFlex does offer assembly for an additional $349.Upon looking at the BowFlex Treadmill 10, you can tell it's a solidly built machine due to the size of the tread and the wide design. I like how size-inclusive the design is: The space between the handles provides plenty of room to move your arms, and the tread belt is long enough if you have longer strides, so individuals over 6 feet tall will be able to run on it comfortably. The touchscreen on the BowFlex is only 10 inches, so it's smaller than I expected and seems out of place considering how big the body of the treadmill is. I also didn't love how some of the buttons that control the speed and incline are positioned further back on the sides of the treadmill and made of a plastic material. I'm short, so it didn't seem practical to me to reach behind me to change the speed or incline. I could see this being more comfortable for taller people. The upside is that there are handles in front of the console that also have buttons that control the speed and incline. The console is also wide enough to hold your phone or tablet and has one cup holder on each side. The BowFlex Treadmill 10 has incline and decline options and goes up to 12 miles per hour. When you're running, the belt feels smooth and is on the quiet side, despite the minimal whirring sound the motor makes. BowFlex also has a JRNY membership which you need to access the various exercise and treadmill classes. New members get to try JRNY for free the first year, but afterward, it's $20 a month, which is a fair price compared to other memberships. You can also easily sync up your treadmill with the JRNY app on iOS and Android. If you're not in the mood to take a class, you also have the option to use the treadmill in manual mode. You will need to make sure you have an internet router in or close to the room where your treadmill is set up. I didn't experience any issues with the connectivity, but some reviews point out that the classes glitch if the Wi-Fi isn't stable enough. You can also connect the treadmill to your Bluetooth-enabled smart devices and heart rate monitors. I tried connecting it to my Apple Watch but had no luck, which I can see being an issue if you're a runner who wants to track your data. This treadmill can't connect to music streaming services, but it can connect to streaming apps like Hulu or Netflix so you can watch your favorite shows while you work out. When you're done using the treadmill, you can fold it upright by pressing a lever on the lower right-hand side of the belt and lifting it up to close. Although it doesn't close all the way, it does prop up the belt which can help save you space.  ... Show more
Get it now
10% off any treadmill with code 2/1-3/31 with code:
CNET10
$1,799 at Bowflex
$2,100 at Walmart
Specs & Configurations
Price
$1,799Speed
0-12 mphIncline/decline
15% incline to -5% declineDimensions
LxWxH: 85 x 39.6 x 65.3 inchesWarranty
15-year frame, 5-year parts, 2-year labor and 1-year touchscreenBelt length
22 x 60 inches Score Breakdown
Software Ease of Use
6
Functionality
8
Warranty
8
Assembly
6
Features
10
Add to compare
Echelon
Photo Gallery 1/1
Echelon
Best compact treadmill
Echelon Stride (Style discontinued)
Pros
Fits in most spaces
Auto-fold design
Quiet
Best for walking and jogging
Connects to third-party apps
Cons
Requires you to use your phone or tablet to stream workouts
Small frame may not be appropriate for all heights and sizes
May not be able to handle intense runs
Only has a year warranty
No decline
Unlike the rest of the treadmills on this list, the Echelon Stride was made with limited space in mind, and its sleek all-black exterior will blend into any room. It only took our technician 15 minutes to set up. This treadmill is best for someone on the shorter side since the spacing between the arms and treadmill feels more narrow compared to the BowFlex and NordicTrack treadmills. The belt is also shorter, measuring only 55 inches long. It has a 300-pound weight capacity, which is impressive considering its size. It could pass for a walking treadmill because of how slim it is, but during testing, I was able to comfortably walk and run on it. The speed capabilities are in line with the bigger treadmills, the incline is not as high, and the Echelon Stride doesn't have a decline option. I'd recommend this treadmill if you're going to be using it for shorter runs, jogs and walks because even though it's sturdy and can handle high speed, I'm not certain it will handle intense mileage over time, especially if you're a long-distance runner. It also sometimes lags when you increase the speed. The foot rails are narrow, which makes sense since they fit the size of the treadmill, but I wouldn't be comfortable hopping on them if I suddenly needed to do so mid-workout. The Echelon Stride is more bare-bones than the other treadmills on this list because it doesn't have a touchscreen and is instead controlled by a few buttons beneath the LED console. If you want to access workout programs, you'll need an Echelon membership (up to $35 a month) and the Echelon app on your phone or tablet. If you don't like to rely on additional gadgets to view your workouts, this may not be the best option for you. I had to use my phone and the app worked perfectly fine for me, but truth be told, I would've preferred a built-in screen. The good news is you can connect your Spotify account and other third-party accounts like Strava, Apple Health and Fitbit. The buttons on the Echelon Stride are intuitive and may be preferable for those who don't want smart features. The LED console shows the speed, step count, time, distance, incline and quick speed. This treadmill only has a mesh cup holder to hold a water bottle, which fits its small frame but doesn't hold much else. A big advantage this treadmill has over the rest on this list is that it folds flat so you can store it under your bed or lean it against your wall. It's truly a space saver, unlike other treadmills which just fold upright and still require some space.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,400 at Echelon
Specs & Configurations
Price
$1,400Speed
0.5-12mphIncline/decline
10% incline, no declineDimensions
LxWxH: 69 x 31 x 49 inchesWarranty
1-year limited warranty, plus 4 more years for active Premier membersBelt length
55 x 20 inches
Add to compareBest treadmills for 2025, compared
TreadmillMaximum speedMaximum inclineMaximum user weight DimensionsPrice NordicTrack Commercial 2450 12 mph15%300 pounds 78.5" x 35.6" x 65"$2,499BowFlex Treadmill 10 12 mph15%400 pounds 85" x 39.6" x 65.3"$1,799Echelon Stride 12 mph10%300 pounds 69" × 31" × 49"$1,400Horizon 7.0 AT 12 mph15%325 pounds 76″ x 35″ x 66″$999Peloton Tread 12.5 mph12.5%300 pounds 68" x 33" x 62"$2,695
How we test treadmills
The CNET warehouse, which is where we test fitness equipment. Giselle Castro-Sloboda/CNETWhen we test treadmills, we usually test in our Louisville-based CNET warehouse due to its ample space. On occasion, we will test from home or try a demo at a showroom. Since we are a small team, it can take months of arranging and testing to bring you the most vital information you'll need to know before making your purchase.
How we rate fitness equipment
Over our years of testing, we’ve established a methodology that helps us evaluate and score each piece of fitness equipment we test. We judge fitness equipment based on the following.Features: We look at the types of features offered by these pieces of equipment, how advanced or simple these features are, and whether the machine can connect to built-in or third-party apps or wearables. No matter how advanced it is, it should be intuitive for most people to use.Software: Many of these machines have programs built in, so we look to see how easy they are to use and any challenges we experience when using them. Functionality: When testing, we determine if the machine works as promised. Additionally, we observe how intuitive it is to use, whether it has all the bells and whistles or not. Even if the machine is as simple as it comes, the device should still function as promised. If the machine is more modern, it should still be easy to use by anyone.Assembly: We make note of how long it takes to assemble fitness equipment and if you need an extra set of hands to help. Fitness equipment tends to be heavy so it usually is a two-person job. We also make sure that there's a white glove delivery option if you prefer and make note of the price.Warranty: It’s important to know the warranty information for your equipment in case you need a replacement. Since fitness equipment is an investment you should feel comfortable knowing that you’re getting a top-quality product. If a piece needs replacing, the window for replacement or refund should be clear.Read more on how we test fitness equipment. Other treadmills we tested
ProForm Pro 2000: Although ProForm and NordicTrack are manufactured by the same company, I found that the quality of the ProForm did not compare. During testing I was unable to connect my iFit account and the belt did not feel smooth when in use and kept making squeaking sounds. even after our technician adjusted it multiple times. Mobvoi Home Treadmill: Putting together this compact treadmill at home wasn't too complicated, but I noticed some manufacturer defects in the alignment of the handles. Although this didn't affect the ability to use the treadmill, I found this one was better off used for walking instead of higher-impact activities like running or jogging. While jogging on the treadmill I noticed it made loud thumping noises that can be a nuisance if you live in an apartment. The belt is also narrow, therefore I don't think it would be an appropriate pick for taller or larger people.  Treadmills we are currently testing
CNET's wellness team is constantly testing and reviewing new treadmills behind the scenes. Some of the treadmills we are considering are:NordicTrack X24 Treadmill- NordicTrack's newest treadmill with the highest incline at 40%.BowFlex T6 Treadmill- One of BowFlex's newest treadmills that connects to the Apple Watch. Factors to consider when choosing a treadmill
Treadmills can be a significant investment, so before buying, you'll want to take several factors into account. Budget: set yourself a budget and figure out how much you're willing to spend -- you can get a quality treadmill on a budget, or splurge for extra features. Similarly, determine whether you want a smart treadmill with a touchscreen and virtual classes, or if you prefer a simpler model without a touchscreen that provides basic metrics.Size: Consider the size of the treadmill and how much space you have in your home to fit one. Decide if you want the treadmill to be foldable for saving space and easy storage.Workouts: Take your workout plans into account; do you plan on using it more for running or walking? Consider if multiple people in your household will be using the treadmill and if you need one that can handle various heights and weights. Also, consider whether you're OK with a treadmill that makes some noise or if you prefer it to be silent. How to use a treadmill
There are various ways to use a treadmill that range from walking to running. Below are other workouts you can try out as per our experts' recommendations.Indoor vs. outdoor running: One thing to keep in mind is that the way you run outdoors is going to translate differently indoors. This is why sometimes you'll notice your smartwatch is inconsistent with the pace readings it gives you when you run on a treadmill versus outdoors. Even running indoors can cause your stride to change compared to when you run outside. "The most transferable metric to outdoor running is pace and incline," said Matt Wilpers, a Peloton instructor. Therefore if you are training for a race and plan on mixing it up between outdoor and treadmill runs, these are the key metrics to focus on. Additionally, you have more control over a treadmill workout because you can focus on dialing in your mechanics, breathing and mental focus instead of fixating on your smartwatch for data. Interval training: You can practice interval training on the treadmill by mixing up your easy walk or jogging pace with a fast running or jogging pace. This will vary from person to person, so it's helpful to use your perceived rate of exertion to determine what these speeds are for you. An interval workout can look like running at a fast pace for a minute, followed by a walk or jog for two minutes and alternating between that sequence for 20 minutes and adding in a cooldown. Hill and flats: If you find walking on a treadmill to be monotone, then you can always play around with the incline. Peloton instructor, Rebecca Kennedy said, "Walking is gentle on the joints while offering an incredible cardio output so you're still able to get conditioned without the impact of running." For example, during Peloton hikes (one of the classes she teaches) you have walks that vary from a 4 to 15% incline." Take turns with flat and incline intervals. If you are familiar with running on hills, aim to crank up the speed when you're doing a flat interval. Not only will you challenge yourself doing these types of workouts, but you'll target muscles like your glutes, quads and hamstrings. Sprint intervals: If you're trying to improve your speed, sprinting is a good way to achieve this goal. You could play around with the timing and start off with 30 seconds of running at the highest speed you can tolerate and alternate with 30 seconds of walking. As you get more comfortable with sprints, you can add on more time for the sprint. Tips for running on a treadmill
If you're new to the treadmill and are looking for guidance on the proper way to use one, our experts shared the best practices you should be following. Warm-up: As with any workout, you shouldn't neglect the warm-up. At an easy walking pace warm up for five to 10 minutes. Don't hold onto the handrails: If you're running on a treadmill at a pace that's slightly too fast for you, it's tempting to hold onto the console or the handrails. "This risks injury and it isn't proper treadmill form," warns Wilpers. If you find the speed too fast, reduce it until it feels comfortable enough to keep your elbows by your sides. Don't go out too fast: One common mistake some people make is cranking up the speed too soon. Wilpers says, "Make sure you do an easy warm-up or jog before transitioning into an actual run."Use your arms: It's easy to forget about your arms if you're jogging or running on a treadmill, but using your arms by swinging them as you run makes you a more efficient runner. "Make sure to keep them bent at around 90 degrees and by your sides and not swinging across the body because that is a sign that your torso is rotating too much," advises Wilpers. Run tall, run light, run relaxed: If you're running on the treadmill, you want the movement to feel as natural as possible. Wilpers says, "Throughout runs, perform mental body scans to assess how you are doing from head to toe, including breathing." When thinking about your form, running tall means you are maintaining an upright posture with a forward lean from the ankles, whereas running light refers to light quick feet, and running relaxed is relaxing everything else that isn't driving the movement. Who should avoid treadmills: It's important to avoid hopping on a treadmill if you are currently injured, have an illness, recently had surgery or are recently postpartum. "I would not recommend a tread workout at the moment, but once given clearance by your doctor the tread can likely be a good training tool to get you back in good condition," says Kennedy. If you have heart conditions, vertigo, arthritis or disc issues, it's best to consult with your doctor first.
How to care for your treadmill
If you want your treadmill to last a long time, you'll need to do some maintenance to keep it in good condition. You will need to clean your treadmill to keep it debris-free with a cleanser that's appropriate for gym equipment. Sometimes the treadmill manufacturer will sell the best cleanser for their product on their website. Making sure the safety key (usually found on all treadmills) is fully functioning is also important to make sure your treadmill is still safe to use. According to ProForm, you should check monthly to verify the treadmill belt still has tension and is properly aligned. Usually, the instructional manual will include information on how to adjust your treadmill belt. Additionally, inspect the power cord for any potential damage and check that the bolts and screws on your treadmill are still screwed in tight. Over time and use, some of these pieces can come loose so they may need to be tightened up occasionally. Another aspect to look at is if the treadmill needs lubrication. When you purchase your treadmill, you'll notice that your package probably came with a small tube of lubrication. This is to keep the treadmill belt in good condition since the lubrication can dry up over time. According to NordicTrack, if the treadmill isn't properly lubricated it can affect the way it works by making the belt stick and can even cause it to overheat. For proper instructions on how to lubricate your treadmill, adhere to the instruction manual or call the manufacturer's customer service number for assistance.Finally, if you've done all the inspections required and notice that your treadmill belt is worse for wear, it may be time to replace it. Make sure you have the model number of your treadmill on hand before reordering a replacement belt. Follow the instructions on the manufacturer's website or owner manual to make sure that you're installing it correctly.  Treadmill FAQ
Which is better, a treadmill or an elliptical?
It depends on your personal needs and goals. If you're prone to injuries and need a low-impact option for cardio, the elliptical is a better option. If you're training for a race or aren't prone to injuries, a treadmill is a good choice.
Show more
How do you lubricate a treadmill?
According to NordicTrack, you'll need to buy a nonsilicone-based treadmill lubricant from the treadmill supplier. Follow its recommended steps to properly lubricate your treadmill.
Show more
How much do treadmills cost?
It depends on the type and quality of the treadmill you're looking for. You can find treadmills for less than $1,000, but they may lack the sturdiness and capacity that a more expensive option provides. If you want a treadmill with special features, expect to spend upward of $1,000, with more expensive models ranging anywhere from $3,000 to $5,000.
Show more
How long do treadmills last?
If they're well maintained and cared for, treadmills can last about 10 years or longer.
Show more
Is a treadmill bad for your knees?
Running on a 0% incline or a high incline can increase the risk of knee injuries, shin splints and other issues. According to orthopedic surgeon Kevin D. Plancher, running at lower inclines is safer for the knees. He suggests running at a 1% to 3% incline to prevent unnatural movement patterns that normally occur at a 0% incline setting. This helps relieve pressure on the knees and instead ends up working more of your glutes and hamstrings.
Show more
Are treadmills good for weight loss?
Any activity that elevates your daily calorific burn is bound to help with weight loss. Walking or running on a treadmill can help you reach your fitness goals and contribute to weight loss.
Show more
Are there disadvantages to walking on a treadmill?
Walking on a treadmill can contribute to joint stress and risk of injury, but maintaining good form can help.
Show more
Can treadmills work without electricity?
Manual treadmills don't require electricity to work. You and your movements power manual treadmills, so the more effort you put in, the harder the workout you'll get in return.
Show more
Is a curved treadmill better than a traditional flat treadmill?
Curved treadmills have some unique benefits compared to traditional motorized treadmills. They're powered by your own movement rather than electricity, which can lead to burning up to 30% more calories during your workout. The curved design also leads to a more natural running form with midfoot striking and better posture. However, curved treadmills tend to be more expensive, have a steeper learning curve and may not be ideal for beginners or those with balance issues. Traditional motorized treadmills are the more versatile option.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Also written by
Valerie Cholet
Fitness Guides
Fitness Equipment
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Exercise Bike
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Home Exercise Equipment
Best Smart Home Gym Workouts
Fitness Accessories
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Walking Shoes for Men
Best Walking Shoes for Women
Best Running Shoes for Men
Best Running Shoes for Women
Best Compression Socks
Best Foam Roller
Fitness Tech
Best Massage Gun
Best Smart Scale
Best Mirror Workout
Best Fitness Workout Apps
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors
Tonal Review
Theragun Review
Fitness Nutrition
Best Protein Powders
Best Protein Shakes
Fitness Supplements that Work
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Foods for Building Muscle
Best Weight Loss Programs
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.