Pokémon Go Rookidee Community Day guide
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Pokémon GO
Make the most of this little bird's special day
Pokémon Go Rookidee Community Day guide
By
Julia Lee
Published Aug 30, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: Game Freak/Nintendo, The Pokémon Company
Jump Links
How do I catch a shiny Rookidee?
What Community Day move does Rookidee’s evolution learn?
How does Corviknight do in the meta?
How do I make the most of Rookidee Community Day?
Pokémon Go is having a Rookidee Community Day event on Saturday, Aug. 30 from 2-5 p.m. in your local time. As expected with a Community Day event, Rookidee will spawn in huge numbers with a high chance for it to appear shiny. There are also several other bonuses and perks, which we’ve list out below.
How do I catch a shiny Rookidee?
As per old research by the now-defunct website The Silph Road (via Wayback Machine), Shiny rates on Community Days are about 1 in 24, which means that if you keep playing throughout the three-hour window, you should find quite a few shiny Pokémon.
Graphic: Julia Lee/Polygon | Source images: Niantic
If you’re short on time or Poké Balls, you can pop an Incense, then quickly tap each Rookidee to check for shiny ones, running from any that aren’t shiny. Notably, any Rookidee you’ve already tapped will face where your player is standing, so that should help identify which ones you may have already checked.
What Community Day move does Rookidee’s evolution learn?
If you evolve Corvisquire into Corviknight from Aug. 30 at 2 p.m. until Sept. 6 at 10 p.m. in your local time, it will learn the charged move Air Cutter. If you miss out on evolving it during this period, you will likely be able to evolve it during a Community Day weekend event in December to get Air Cutter. If you don’t want to wait, you can use an Elite TM to get the move.
How does Corviknight do in the meta?
Corviknight is a favorite in Great and Ultra League PvP. Setting it up with Sand Attack, Payback, and Air Cutter should put you in a pretty good spot, but some of its other movesets may be viable as well. For PvE content (gyms and raids), Corviknight doesn't have much use. There are tons of better flying-type options, with picks like Staraptor and Braviary even out-damaging it. Notably, Corviknight does have a Gigantamax form, so you may want to save some of your Rookidee Candy to power up one of those, if you're into collecting Gigantamax Pokémon.
How do I make the most of Rookidee Community Day?
The following bonuses will be active during Rookidee Community Day:
1⁄4 hatch distance for eggs placed into Incubators during the event
Doubled candy for catching Pokémon
Doubled chance for level 31+ trainers to get XL candy from catching Pokémon
Incense lasts three hours
Lure Modules last three hours
Rookidee special photobombs when taking snapshots
One additional special trade
Stardust cost halved for trading
That said, you should definitely put your eggs into Incubators, pop an Incense, and try to nab some powerful Rookidee. If you can Mega Evolve Charizard Y, Pidgeot, Pinsir, Aerodactyl, Salamence, or Rayquaza, you’ll score additional Rookidee Candy per catch. There will also be a “Community Day Continued” Timed Research until Sept. 6 that will reward more Rookidee, including ones with special themed backgrounds. This research will keep the increased shiny rate for Rookidee, even after the three-hour event is over, so make sure you complete them for extra chances to get a shiny.
Guides
Pokémon Go guide
Mobile
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 8, 2025
Netflix's new Knives Out movie is already getting great reviews
Sep 8, 2025
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting a rare $20 card with epic new Marvel art
Sep 10, 2025
A new Nintendo Direct is coming Sept. 12
5 hours ago
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
GameStop's shiny Pokémon Scarlet and Violet giveaway is off to a rough start
Marvel Zombies finally delivers on the potential of What If...?
D&D icon R.A. Salvatore might be done writing Drizzt
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.