This DIYer 3D-printed a fix for one of the biggest problems with desktops at LAN parties
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
This DIYer 3D-printed a fix for one of the biggest problems with desktops at LAN parties
Credit: Source: Unsplash
By
Rahul Naskar
Published Sep 8, 2025
Rahul Naskar has more than five years of experience writing news and features related to consumer technology. He previously worked at leading tech publications, such as Neowin, MakeUseOf, and MSPowerUser. Beyond his passion for technology, he loves to stay engaged with events shaping the trajectory of geopolitics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
3D-printed ASA handle and mounts make a desktop PC easy and safe to carry to LAN parties.
The mount can use the monitor hook to make the screen face inward for safe transport, then reposition it during active gaming sessions.
You can download and customize shared Printables files to create components for your desktop PC.
While not quite as popular as they once were, LAN parties are still a thing both among older and younger gamers. And depending on who you ask, opinions about which pieces of equipment matter the most for LAN parties can differ. The list might change based on whether you LAN game the old-fashioned way or take the modern approach. However, regardless of the route you choose, if it's a desktop PC that you plan to take to the event, it isn't nearly as carry-friendly as, let's say, a laptop or even a console. If this is what's stopping you from taking your gaming rig to LAN parties, a 3D printer can fix this problem, just as it did for one DIYer.
3D printing gave this DIYer the tools to ready their desktop PC for LAN parties
To make the desktop PC easier to carry to the event, DIYer @Irudimen_1551517 3D-printed a few components, all of which, as you may have expected, are designed to attach to the case. The 3D-printed ASA (Acrylonitrile Styrene Acrylate) handle was strong enough to carry the entire setup to the party. However, the biggest challenge was to carry the monitor with the system unit, because it's the most vulnerable part of the setup when the screen is exposed during transport.
So, the DIYer came up with a clever solution: they 3D-printed a dual-purpose mounting system that ensures protection as well as makes it easy to set up for gameplay. The mounting system can use the monitor's hook mechanism, allowing the screen to face inward. This helps during transportation, while the other part of the mount helps you realign the monitor during active gaming sessions.
You can make these components using a 3D printer, too
The creator has shared all the model files you need to 3D-print the same components for your setup. However, you should also be careful about the measurement, since your PC setup is mostly very different from the creator's.
You can download the files from here from Printables and then modify the measurements according to your needs. Also, be careful about the material you're using to print those objects. The ASA is a natural choice for this, as the material is known for making parts that can carry heavy loads. If you're the host of the event, you can also 3D print some trophies for winners, just as the creator did. However, for this purpose, they used resin, which is one of the best materials to make smooth surfaces. If that's what you're looking for, you'll need a resin 3D printer and not an FDM 3D printer.
3D Printing
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 9, 2025
I used to fear the Raspberry Pi’s underwater Wi-Fi capabilities, but now I’m looking forward to it
Sep 10, 2025
I work from home, but I'd rather use my laptop instead of my desktop
Sep 9, 2025
Immutable operating systems are a blessing and a curse
Sep 9, 2025
Avoid these 6 common Linux mistakes that beginners often make
Today's best deals
Grab the iPad Air with an M3 chip for one of its best prices at just $539
54 minutes ago
This sleek soundbar delivers bold sound without the big price
2 hours ago
This legendary farming sim with 98% positive Steam reviews is just $2 for a limited time
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
4 Zotero plugins that are my productivity secret weapon
The minds behind NotebookLM just launched their first tool since leaving Google, and it already feels like a hit
Maxon Cinema 4D, ZBrush, and Razer Synapse are all coming to Windows on Arm
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.