Booking.com:
Data Subject Request for Booking.com Customers
Skip to main content
USD
Choose your currency.
Your current currency is U.S. Dollar
Choose your language.
Your current language is English (US)
Get help with your reservation
List your property
Register
Sign in
Stays
Flights
Flight + Hotel
Car rental
Attractions
Airport taxis
Exercise your rights regarding your personal dataExercise your privacy rights under local law. To make a request to Booking.com and have it transferred to the Booking.com privacy team, use the "Data subject request form" tab. To opt out of specific data processing activities, go to "Preferences."If your request is about a rental car or taxi reservation, you may also receive a response from Booking.com Transport Limited. This is because these services are provided in cooperation with Booking.com Transport Limited.For more information, or to exercise other rights, see our Booking.com Privacy Statement, Booking.com Transport Limited Privacy Statement, or the Rentalcars.com Privacy Statement for Cars (depending on which platform you used) and the Booking.com Transport Limited Privacy Statement for Taxis.Data subject request formPreferencesFirst name(s)*Last name(s)*Email address*We'll send an email to this address to verify your identity.Which of the following rights would you like to exercise?Unsubscribe from email marketingManage your subscription to our mailing lists.Right to object to data sharing with other companies in the Booking Holdings Inc. corporate groupRight to object to data sharing with other companies in the Booking Holdings Inc. corporate groupRight to obtain a copy of my personal dataI'd like a copy of all the personal data Booking.com holds about meRight to delete my personal dataI'd like Booking.com to permanently delete my personal dataRight to correct my personal data(This is a privacy-specific request. If you want to change a reservation, you can under "Bookings & Trips" when signed in to your Booking.com account. For customer service assistance, visit the Booking.com Help Center or the Rentalcars.com Help Center)Provide us one of the following references to verify your requestBooking.com accommodation confirmation numberBooking.com car reservation numberBooking.com taxi reference numberConfirmation number from a previous booking:*An 8–20 digit confirmation number can be found in the top-right corner of any confirmation email from a previous booking, or by logging into your Booking.com account (if applicable).PIN code from that same booking:*The 4–6 digit PIN code can be found next to your confirmation number.Submit request
List your property
Mobile version
Your account
Make changes online to your booking
Customer Service Help
Become an affiliate
Booking.com for Business
Countries
Regions
Cities
Districts
Airports
Hotels
Places of interest
Homes
Apartments
Resorts
Villas
Hostels
B&Bs
Guest Houses
Unique places to stay
Reviews
Discover monthly stays
Travel articles
Seasonal and holiday deals
Traveller Review Awards
Car rental
Flight finder
Restaurant reservations
Booking.com for Travel Agents
Coronavirus (COVID-19) FAQs
About Booking.com
Customer Service Help
Partner help
Careers
Sustainability
Press Center
Safety Resource Center
Investor relations
Terms of Service
Partner dispute
How We Work
Privacy & cookie statement
Modern Slavery Statement
Human Rights Statement
Corporate contact
Content guidelines and reporting
Extranet Log-in
Copyright © 1996–2025
Booking.com™. All rights reserved.
Booking.com is part of Booking Holdings Inc., the world leader in online travel and related services.
Start of dialog content
Verified reviews from real guests.
We have more than 70 million property reviews, all from real, verified guests.
How does it work?
1
It starts with a booking
It starts with a booking
The only way to leave a review is to first make a booking. That's how we know our reviews come from real guests who have stayed at the property.
2
Followed by a trip
Followed by a trip
When guests stay at the property, they check out how quiet the room is, how friendly the staff is, and more.
3
And finally, a review
And finally, a review
After their trip, guests tell us about their stay. We check for naughty words and verify the authenticity of all guest reviews before adding them to our site.
If you booked through us and want to leave a review, please sign in first.
Sign in and leave a review
End of dialog content
«
»
Su
Mo
Tu
We
Th
Fr
Sa
Close calendar
Sign in to continue
Sign in to your account
or use one of these options
Don't have an account yet? Create your account
2374380|5,2311730,2381690,2374450|5,2374450|1,2374380|1