Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor) job with University of Miami - Department of Cell and Systems Biology | 12845092
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Employer
University of Miami - Department of Cell and Systems Biology
Location
University of Miami, Miami
Salary
150000- 180000
Closing date
21 Dec 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Life Science
Job Type
Professor
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Department of Cell and Systems Biology
University of Miami | Miller School of Medicine, Miami FL
The Department of Cell and Systems Biology at the Miller School of Medicine | University of Miami is expanding and recruiting bold scientists who want to reshape the future of biomedicine. We invite applications for tenure-track/tenured faculty positions at all ranks. We seek exceptionally innovative investigators (fundamental or applied) whose research is visionary, disruptive, and pushes boundaries in fields such as quantitative systems and synthetic biology, development, aging and cancer, infectious disease, and the evolution of resistance.  Our ethos prioritizes applicants with highly creative, non-derivative research programs over level of experience and research background.  Investigators with translational or entrepreneurial interests are encouraged to apply. A Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent, is required and both research and teaching are expected.
The Miller school offers state-of-the-art research facilities, robust start-up packages tailored to ensure your success, and premier salary support, commensurate with experience. Please send a CV, statement of research accomplishments, future research goals, three representative publications or preprints, and the names of three references to: rbraithw@med.miami.edu
We are building a new generation of discovery in Miami — join us.
For further information: https//sysbio.miami.edu/
Supporting Documents for Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Download Application Form
(PDF)
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Multiple Tenure-Track Faculty Positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor)
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Independent Associate Professor at Immunology Frontier Research Center, The University of Osaka
Suita Campus, The University of Osaka in Osaka, Japan
Assistant/associate Professor of AI-assisted Biophysics at EPFL and Group Leader at PSI
Switzerland (CH)
Chemistry Faculty Positions at Westlake University
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software