The best laptop cooling pads of 2025: Expert tested | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Updated on: September 22, 2025 at 12:13 PM PDT
Home
Home & Office
Updated on: September 22, 2025 at 12:13 PM PDT
Here are the best laptop cooling pads to keep your computer cool
We tested the best laptop cooling pads to keep your device running smooth with powerful cooling, RGB lights, high RPM and more.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Reviewed by
Allison Jewell
Why you can trust ZDNET
24252627282930313233 Years of Experience 21222324252627282930 Product Reviewers 1,0002,0003,0004,0005,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,000 Sqft of Lab Space Learn Our Process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close ZDNET's reviewers spend weeks to months testing each product or service on this list, using them for both everyday tasks to more performance-intensive work. We aim to give you a view into how each option could fit into your life and workflow, and the pros and cons of their various features.
ZDNET Recommends Llano V12 Laptop Cooling Pad | Best laptop cooling pad overall
Best laptop cooling pad overall
Llano V12 Laptop Cooling Pad
View now View at Amazon Klim Everest | Best laptop cooling pad for its value
Best laptop cooling pad for its value
Klim Everest
View now View at Amazon Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad | Best budget laptop cooling pad
Best budget laptop cooling pad
Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad
View now View at Amazon
IETS GT300 Double Blower | Best ergonomic laptop cooling design
Best ergonomic laptop cooling design
IETS GT300 Double Blower
View now View at IETS Tech Razer Laptop Cooling Pad | Best laptop cooling pad for gaming
Best laptop cooling pad for gaming
Razer Laptop Cooling Pad
View now View at Amazon Aicheson K1 Gaming RGB Laptop Cooling Pad | Best RGB laptop cooling pad
Best RGB laptop cooling pad
Aicheson K1 Gaming RGB Laptop Cooling Pad
View now View at Amazon Klim Cool Vacuum Laptop Cooler | Best portable laptop cooler
Best portable laptop cooler
Klim Cool Vacuum Laptop Cooler
View now View at Klim Havit HV-F2056 | Best laptop cooling pad for the office
Best laptop cooling pad for the office
Havit HV-F2056
View now View at Amazon Llano V13 Laptop Cooling Pad | Alternative to the best laptop cooling pad
Alternative to the best laptop cooling pad
Llano V13 Laptop Cooling Pad
View now View at Amazon Kootek Laptop Cooling Pad | Best budget alternative
Best budget alternative
Kootek Laptop Cooling Pad
View now View at Amazon
Show more (7 items)
A great laptop doesn't need to cost a fortune, and the same goes for the accessories that keep it running smoothly. If you're looking to maintain your computer's performance during intense workloads or long gaming sessions, a cooling pad can make all the difference. Heat can build up and slow down even the best laptops.The best laptop cooling pads on the market deliver excellent airflow and have a smart design without the premium price tag. With so many solid options available, it can be difficult to find the best one. I've taken the time to locate and test some top-rated cooling pads. This list covers a wide variety, from quiet, budget-friendly devices to powerful models.What is the best laptop cooling pad right now?It was tricky to find the best option. Razer launched its first cooling pad last year. It's a great pick for gamers who want a pad with powerful fans and a sleek design. Havit's HV-F2056 is a solid budget option. But our pick for the best overall is the Llano Gaming Laptop Cooler. It boasts powerful cooling that can reduce the temperature of even the hottest computers and has eye-catching RGB lights. As much as we like it, it may not be the best choice for everyone. Below is a list of other notable cooling pads with different use cases that you may like more.Also: The best 15-inch laptops you can buy: Expert tested
Sort by
All
The best laptop cooling pads of 2025 Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: I found the llano V12 Laptop Cooling Pad to be the best overall option for multiple reasons. It is well-designed with a recessed fan surrounded by soft foam. This creates a vacuum-like effect that dramatically drops surface temperatures, even on my old gaming laptop, which often runs hot. The 2,800 RPM fan is impressively powerful, and I appreciate having the option to power the device using a traditional wall outlet instead of a USB-A port. I also want to shout out the vivid RGB lighting, giving the pad a striking presence.Also: I replaced my work PC with this Dell laptop, and it was one of my best decisionsWho it's for: This cooling pad is perfect for anyone with a high-performance laptop that tends to overheat. If you regularly use demanding software, stream games, or edit videos on your computer, you'll benefit a lot from the Llano's strong airflow and consistent cooling.Who should look elsewhere: If you're on a budget, the Llano V12 Laptop Cooling Pad may not be the right choice. It is one of the most expensive options on this list, although at the time of this writing, the device is currently on sale for around $96. Casual users or those who don't push their machines to their limits might be better off with a more affordable pad. Plus, traveling with it may be difficult because of its size.Llano Gaming Laptop Cooler specs: Dimensions: 16.9 x 12.9 x 2.7 inches | Weight: 4.69 pounds | Max laptop size: 19 inches | Fan RPM: 2,800 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Pros
Powerful cooling
Vivid RGB lights
Alternate power methods
Cons
Expensive
Llano V12 Laptop Cooling Pad Best laptop cooling pad overall
Why we like it: I found the llano V12 Laptop Cooling Pad to be the best overall option for multiple reasons. It is well-designed with a recessed fan surrounded by soft foam. This creates a vacuum-like effect that dramatically drops surface temperatures, even on my old gaming laptop, which often runs hot. The 2,800 RPM fan is impressively powerful, and I appreciate having the option to power the device using a traditional wall outlet instead of a USB-A port. I also want to shout out the vivid RGB lighting, giving the pad a striking presence.Also: I replaced my work PC with this Dell laptop, and it was one of my best decisionsWho it's for: This cooling pad is perfect for anyone with a high-performance laptop that tends to overheat. If you regularly use demanding software, stream games, or edit videos on your computer, you'll benefit a lot from the Llano's strong airflow and consistent cooling.Who should look elsewhere: If you're on a budget, the Llano V12 Laptop Cooling Pad may not be the right choice. It is one of the most expensive options on this list, although at the time of this writing, the device is currently on sale for around $96. Casual users or those who don't push their machines to their limits might be better off with a more affordable pad. Plus, traveling with it may be difficult because of its size.Llano Gaming Laptop Cooler specs: Dimensions: 16.9 x 12.9 x 2.7 inches | Weight: 4.69 pounds | Max laptop size: 19 inches | Fan RPM: 2,800 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Klim Why we like it: The Klim Everest hits that sweet spot between performance and price. In my experience, most cooling pads either don't cool well or are expensive, but this one is the exception. Its twin turbine fans spin at up to 4,300 RPM each, capable of cooling down even the warmest of laptops. The company recommends only using its device on laptops with bottom vents. You should definitely do this; however, I do want to point out that it is powerful enough to cool down laptops without bottom vents, as I discovered in my own testing.The Everest is large, sturdy, and surprisingly ergonomic. When placed on top of the pad, laptops sit at an angle. It also has adjustable fan speeds, USB pass-through, and LED lighting, making it a solid all-around accessory.Also: Lenovo's $3,000 rollable ThinkBook laptop is officially available to buy - know this before you doWho it's for: I recommend this option for people on a budget, but also those who don't mind spending a little bit of extra cash on a cooling pad. The Klim Everest sits in this in-between spot where it delivers premium performance while not being super expensive. It's a great fit in the hands of gamers, students, and professionals using mid to high-performing laptops.Who should look elsewhere: My main complaint about the Klim Everest is the noise. The fans can get really loud at higher settings, though you can lower the speed to reduce the sound. If you're particularly sensitive to noise or don't want to disturb other people, you might want to skip this entry.Klim Everest Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 16.8 x 2.7x 12.7 inches | Weight: 2.49 pounds | Max laptop size: 17.3 inches | Fan RPM: 4,400 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Pros
High RPM
Ergonomic design
Large
Cons
A little noisy
Klim Everest Best laptop cooling pad for its value
Why we like it: The Klim Everest hits that sweet spot between performance and price. In my experience, most cooling pads either don't cool well or are expensive, but this one is the exception. Its twin turbine fans spin at up to 4,300 RPM each, capable of cooling down even the warmest of laptops. The company recommends only using its device on laptops with bottom vents. You should definitely do this; however, I do want to point out that it is powerful enough to cool down laptops without bottom vents, as I discovered in my own testing.The Everest is large, sturdy, and surprisingly ergonomic. When placed on top of the pad, laptops sit at an angle. It also has adjustable fan speeds, USB pass-through, and LED lighting, making it a solid all-around accessory.Also: Lenovo's $3,000 rollable ThinkBook laptop is officially available to buy - know this before you doWho it's for: I recommend this option for people on a budget, but also those who don't mind spending a little bit of extra cash on a cooling pad. The Klim Everest sits in this in-between spot where it delivers premium performance while not being super expensive. It's a great fit in the hands of gamers, students, and professionals using mid to high-performing laptops.Who should look elsewhere: My main complaint about the Klim Everest is the noise. The fans can get really loud at higher settings, though you can lower the speed to reduce the sound. If you're particularly sensitive to noise or don't want to disturb other people, you might want to skip this entry.Klim Everest Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 16.8 x 2.7x 12.7 inches | Weight: 2.49 pounds | Max laptop size: 17.3 inches | Fan RPM: 4,400 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: The Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad is one of the better budget options. It's lightweight and ergonomic and can effectively cool lightweight laptops with its dual 1,800 RPM fans. The adjustable speed dial is much appreciated, allowing users to choose between quiet operation and maximum airflow. You don't have to worry about battery drain because this pad barely draws power from laptops. Rest assured that your computer will continue to last for hours on end.Who it's for: This cooling pad is well suited for students, remote workers, or anyone using a slim laptop like a Chromebook, MacBook, or a Lenovo ThinkPad. If you need basic cooling while working from the couch or coffee shop, the Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad is a budget-friendly solution that's easy to carry and works quietly.Also: Why I recommend this Asus laptop over the MacBook Pro to creators and professionalsWho should look elsewhere: I recommend this cooler for physically thick or high-performing laptops. It just doesn't have the power to handle high amounts of heat coming from a gaming laptop, for example. Plus, it lacks notable features like multiple USB ports that other pads have. Heavy users should consider more robust options.Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 14 x 11 x 1.8 inches | Weight: 1.75 pounds | Max laptop size: 15.6 inches | Fan RPM: 1,800 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Pros
Inexpensive
Adjustable fan speeds
Lightweight
Cons
Limited ports
Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad Best budget laptop cooling pad
Why we like it: The Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad is one of the better budget options. It's lightweight and ergonomic and can effectively cool lightweight laptops with its dual 1,800 RPM fans. The adjustable speed dial is much appreciated, allowing users to choose between quiet operation and maximum airflow. You don't have to worry about battery drain because this pad barely draws power from laptops. Rest assured that your computer will continue to last for hours on end.Who it's for: This cooling pad is well suited for students, remote workers, or anyone using a slim laptop like a Chromebook, MacBook, or a Lenovo ThinkPad. If you need basic cooling while working from the couch or coffee shop, the Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad is a budget-friendly solution that's easy to carry and works quietly.Also: Why I recommend this Asus laptop over the MacBook Pro to creators and professionalsWho should look elsewhere: I recommend this cooler for physically thick or high-performing laptops. It just doesn't have the power to handle high amounts of heat coming from a gaming laptop, for example. Plus, it lacks notable features like multiple USB ports that other pads have. Heavy users should consider more robust options.Tecknet Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 14 x 11 x 1.8 inches | Weight: 1.75 pounds | Max laptop size: 15.6 inches | Fan RPM: 1,800 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at IETS Tech Why we like it: Comfort is an underrated aspect of laptop cooling pads. Good ergonomics ensures your hands won't feel strain after typing away for hours, and this is what the IETS GT300 Double Blower excels at. Thanks to the device's rear brackets, you can adjust it to one of seven angles, depending on what you find most comfortable. Beyond comfort, the Double Blower is also a powerful cooler. Its dual 4,500 RPM fans successfully kept my old Alienware laptop cool, which is no easy task. The computer already runs hot, and it lacks side and rear vents. Considering that it accomplished this task highlights how powerful it is. Surprisingly, it also runs quietly. The soft LED lighting and dust filters are thoughtful extras that round out an already great design.Who it's for: This pad is ideal for people who work long hours on a laptop -- think writers, programmers, students, and even gamers. Its ergonomic design ensures good posture and reduced hand strain. It's especially good at cooling down laptops that heat up easily, even those without bottom vents. The elevation promotes good airflow.Also: Why I recommend this Asus laptop over the MacBook Pro to creators and professionalsWho should look elsewhere? Most cooling pads require access to a USB-A port to draw power from a host laptop. Because they take over an input, many of these models come with other ports to replace the one they're using. The IETS GT300 Double Blower is lacking in this department, sporting only two USB-A ports around the back. That may not be enough for people with several PC accessories.IETS GT300 Double Blower specs: Dimensions: 15.75 x 13.7 x 1.97 inches | Weight: 3.5 pounds | Max laptop size: 17 inches | Fan RPM: 4500 | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Pros
Fast cooling
Ergonomic
Gentle lighting
Cons
Few ports
IETS GT300 Double Blower Best ergonomic laptop cooling design
Why we like it: Comfort is an underrated aspect of laptop cooling pads. Good ergonomics ensures your hands won't feel strain after typing away for hours, and this is what the IETS GT300 Double Blower excels at. Thanks to the device's rear brackets, you can adjust it to one of seven angles, depending on what you find most comfortable. Beyond comfort, the Double Blower is also a powerful cooler. Its dual 4,500 RPM fans successfully kept my old Alienware laptop cool, which is no easy task. The computer already runs hot, and it lacks side and rear vents. Considering that it accomplished this task highlights how powerful it is. Surprisingly, it also runs quietly. The soft LED lighting and dust filters are thoughtful extras that round out an already great design.Who it's for: This pad is ideal for people who work long hours on a laptop -- think writers, programmers, students, and even gamers. Its ergonomic design ensures good posture and reduced hand strain. It's especially good at cooling down laptops that heat up easily, even those without bottom vents. The elevation promotes good airflow.Also: Why I recommend this Asus laptop over the MacBook Pro to creators and professionalsWho should look elsewhere? Most cooling pads require access to a USB-A port to draw power from a host laptop. Because they take over an input, many of these models come with other ports to replace the one they're using. The IETS GT300 Double Blower is lacking in this department, sporting only two USB-A ports around the back. That may not be enough for people with several PC accessories.IETS GT300 Double Blower specs: Dimensions: 15.75 x 13.7 x 1.97 inches | Weight: 3.5 pounds | Max laptop size: 17 inches | Fan RPM: 4500 | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at AmazonView now at Best Buy Why we like it: Razer went above and beyond for its laptop cooling pad. First, it has the recessed pit design that I am a big fan of. It works in tandem with the foam base to create a vacuum-like effect, ensuring laptops stay cool even during intense gaming sessions. Plus, the fan spins at a speedy 3,000 RPM.What's interesting about the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad is that it's "smart". Through the company's Synapse 4 software, you can fine-tune the fan manually or have it auto-adjust with Smart Fan Curve mode. This feature allows the device to change the fan speeds to best suit the computer's operating temperature. Customization doesn't stop there. You can remap the physical control buttons on the side to perform other things, like control music playback or launch apps.Razer also includes other magnetic foam frames to fit different laptop sizes and ventilation layouts better.Review: Razer Laptop Cooling PadWho it's for: This cooling pad is tailor-made for gamers and streamers who use powerful laptops that generate a lot of heat. The device's adaptive cooling gives it the flexibility to stay cool under pressure. It is ideal for notebooks measuring between 14 and 18 inches.Who should look elsewhere: Despite all its bells and whistles, the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad has a few drawbacks. The most obvious is the price -- at $150, it is one of the most expensive options. You'll also need to use its USB-A port and power adapter to fully power the fan and the RGB lighting. That means more cables and desk clutter, which can be a hassle if you have a small working space.Razer Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 15.6 x 11.5 x 4.5 inches | Weight: 3.52 pounds | Max laptop size: 18 inches | Fan RPM: 3,000 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Pros
Customizable
Sleek design
Strong cooling
Cons
Expensive
Razer Laptop Cooling Pad Best laptop cooling pad for gaming
Why we like it: Razer went above and beyond for its laptop cooling pad. First, it has the recessed pit design that I am a big fan of. It works in tandem with the foam base to create a vacuum-like effect, ensuring laptops stay cool even during intense gaming sessions. Plus, the fan spins at a speedy 3,000 RPM.What's interesting about the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad is that it's "smart". Through the company's Synapse 4 software, you can fine-tune the fan manually or have it auto-adjust with Smart Fan Curve mode. This feature allows the device to change the fan speeds to best suit the computer's operating temperature. Customization doesn't stop there. You can remap the physical control buttons on the side to perform other things, like control music playback or launch apps.Razer also includes other magnetic foam frames to fit different laptop sizes and ventilation layouts better.Review: Razer Laptop Cooling PadWho it's for: This cooling pad is tailor-made for gamers and streamers who use powerful laptops that generate a lot of heat. The device's adaptive cooling gives it the flexibility to stay cool under pressure. It is ideal for notebooks measuring between 14 and 18 inches.Who should look elsewhere: Despite all its bells and whistles, the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad has a few drawbacks. The most obvious is the price -- at $150, it is one of the most expensive options. You'll also need to use its USB-A port and power adapter to fully power the fan and the RGB lighting. That means more cables and desk clutter, which can be a hassle if you have a small working space.Razer Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 15.6 x 11.5 x 4.5 inches | Weight: 3.52 pounds | Max laptop size: 18 inches | Fan RPM: 3,000 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: The Aicheson K1 caught my eye with its bold RGB and premium build, but what kept me using it was the cooling power. Its fan design and recessed pit layout do a great job circulating airflow underneath my laptop. The fans can spin up to 2,800 RPM, providing strong enough cooling for my hefty 17-inch notebook. Plus, the RGB lighting adds a svelte look.On the front of the device is a scroll wheel for adjusting the fan speed. You can increase the RPM during intense gaming sessions to deliver more powerful cooling or lower it if you don't like the noise. There's also a button that lets people switch between vibrant RGB effects, whether they want a subtle glow or a rainbow light show.The inclusion of power options is a nice touch. You can choose between a dedicated power adapter or a USB-A connection. I prefer the former since it lets me have a free USB port that I may need.Also: I tested HP's new EliteBook X G1i, and it's a featherweight champ in the officeWho it's for: The Aicheson K1 is made for shoppers who care about performance as much as aesthetics. It is a good alternative to more expensive options like the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad. I recommend this device to people who own a large laptop, roughly 17 or 18 inches in size. It's perfect for those who run high-performance games, edit footage, or tackle heavy workloads where heat buildup becomes an issue.Who should look elsewhere? Unlike the Razer model, the Aicheson K1 is much more barebones. It doesn't have a supporting app for customizing its output or the ability to charge smartphones. What's more, it's pretty bulky. People short on desk space or who travel often should look elsewhere. The large footprint is a drawback.Aicheson K1 Gaming RGB Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 16.85 x 2.95 x 12.5 inches | Weight: 3.5 pounds | Max laptop size: 18 inches | Fan RPM: 2,800 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Pros
Vibrant RGB lights
Ergonomic design
Powerful fans
Cons
Bulky and oddly shaped
Aicheson K1 Gaming RGB Laptop Cooling Pad Best RGB laptop cooling pad
Why we like it: The Aicheson K1 caught my eye with its bold RGB and premium build, but what kept me using it was the cooling power. Its fan design and recessed pit layout do a great job circulating airflow underneath my laptop. The fans can spin up to 2,800 RPM, providing strong enough cooling for my hefty 17-inch notebook. Plus, the RGB lighting adds a svelte look.On the front of the device is a scroll wheel for adjusting the fan speed. You can increase the RPM during intense gaming sessions to deliver more powerful cooling or lower it if you don't like the noise. There's also a button that lets people switch between vibrant RGB effects, whether they want a subtle glow or a rainbow light show.The inclusion of power options is a nice touch. You can choose between a dedicated power adapter or a USB-A connection. I prefer the former since it lets me have a free USB port that I may need.Also: I tested HP's new EliteBook X G1i, and it's a featherweight champ in the officeWho it's for: The Aicheson K1 is made for shoppers who care about performance as much as aesthetics. It is a good alternative to more expensive options like the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad. I recommend this device to people who own a large laptop, roughly 17 or 18 inches in size. It's perfect for those who run high-performance games, edit footage, or tackle heavy workloads where heat buildup becomes an issue.Who should look elsewhere? Unlike the Razer model, the Aicheson K1 is much more barebones. It doesn't have a supporting app for customizing its output or the ability to charge smartphones. What's more, it's pretty bulky. People short on desk space or who travel often should look elsewhere. The large footprint is a drawback.Aicheson K1 Gaming RGB Laptop Cooling Pad specs: Dimensions: 16.85 x 2.95 x 12.5 inches | Weight: 3.5 pounds | Max laptop size: 18 inches | Fan RPM: 2,800 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at KlimView now at Amazon Why we like it: Kilm's Cool Vacuum Laptop Cooler may not look like any of the other entries on this list, but by its cooling prowess and travel-friendly design. No software installation is required. All you have to do is connect its USB-A cable to your laptop, press it against a vent, and let it work. Klim's device also comes with multiple rubber fittings for the front to create a snug, leak-free seal.The cooler is lightweight and small enough to toss in a bag. Despite its tiny size, the 3,500 RPM fan delivers powerful cooling. It pulls heat away from a computer's internal components via a vacuum-like effect, expelling it through the outer port.Also: I've tested dozens of ultralight laptops this year, but I keep coming back to this oneWho it's for: The Klim Vacuum Cooler is ideal for travelers, students, or remote workers looking for portable cooling on the go. It's quiet enough to be used in public spaces, and the best part is that it's super cheap, costing $20 on Amazon. However, if you want a more powerful model, Klim is selling a
on its website for $25.Who should look elsewhere? Because of its compact design, the Klim Vacuum Cooler cannot provide the same level of support as a proper pad. The device is better suited for thin laptops rather than hefty gaming laptops. It doesn't offer passthrough charging. It cannot physically support your laptop, nor does it improve a computer's ergonomics. Use cases for the Klim Cooler are more limited.Klim Laptop Cooler with Vacuum Fan specs: Dimensions: 6.1 x 1.42 x 3.23 inches | Weight: 4.94 ounces | Max laptop size: N/A | Fan RPM: 3,500 RPM | USB passthrough: No | LED lighting: No
Pros
Compact
Powerful fans
Temperature detections
Cons
Can't hold laptop
No USB passthrough
Klim Cool Vacuum Laptop Cooler Best portable laptop cooler
Why we like it: Kilm's Cool Vacuum Laptop Cooler may not look like any of the other entries on this list, but by its cooling prowess and travel-friendly design. No software installation is required. All you have to do is connect its USB-A cable to your laptop, press it against a vent, and let it work. Klim's device also comes with multiple rubber fittings for the front to create a snug, leak-free seal.The cooler is lightweight and small enough to toss in a bag. Despite its tiny size, the 3,500 RPM fan delivers powerful cooling. It pulls heat away from a computer's internal components via a vacuum-like effect, expelling it through the outer port.Also: I've tested dozens of ultralight laptops this year, but I keep coming back to this oneWho it's for: The Klim Vacuum Cooler is ideal for travelers, students, or remote workers looking for portable cooling on the go. It's quiet enough to be used in public spaces, and the best part is that it's super cheap, costing $20 on Amazon. However, if you want a more powerful model, Klim is selling a
on its website for $25.Who should look elsewhere? Because of its compact design, the Klim Vacuum Cooler cannot provide the same level of support as a proper pad. The device is better suited for thin laptops rather than hefty gaming laptops. It doesn't offer passthrough charging. It cannot physically support your laptop, nor does it improve a computer's ergonomics. Use cases for the Klim Cooler are more limited.Klim Laptop Cooler with Vacuum Fan specs: Dimensions: 6.1 x 1.42 x 3.23 inches | Weight: 4.94 ounces | Max laptop size: N/A | Fan RPM: 3,500 RPM | USB passthrough: No | LED lighting: No
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon Why we like it: The Havit HV-F2056 is the rare cooling pad that you can comfortably use in an office space without bothering anyone nearby. Its fans run at just 1,100 RPM, so there's barely any noise, and the built-in lighting is subtle enough to stay professional. I was a big fan of the adjustable legs, allowing the accessory to be ergonomically sound. You can prop up the legs for long typing sessions. The cooling pad is also super slim, capable of easily fitting inside a bag, and weighs barely over a pound.Also: The Dell laptop I recommend to most college students is $350 off at Best BuyWho it's for: Havit's
HV-F2056 is perfect for professionals, students, or anyone working in quiet environments who neds a cooling pad that won't draw attention. Thanks to its size and portability, I would recommend it to hybrid workers who often move between home and office setups. It can even help cool down other electronics like video game consoles or wireless routers.Who should look elsewhere: This device is ideal for lightweight laptops that don't get overly hot but still benefit from extra cooling during extended use. It's not meant for high-end laptops. Its airflow is pretty weak compared to high-RPM models.Havit HV-F2056 specs: Dimensions: 14.96 x 1.18 x 11.02 inches | Weight: 1.54 pounds | Max laptop size: 17-inches | Fan RPM: 1,100 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Pros
Inexpensive
Quiet
Lightweight
Cons
Weak airflow
Havit HV-F2056 Best laptop cooling pad for the office
Why we like it: The Havit HV-F2056 is the rare cooling pad that you can comfortably use in an office space without bothering anyone nearby. Its fans run at just 1,100 RPM, so there's barely any noise, and the built-in lighting is subtle enough to stay professional. I was a big fan of the adjustable legs, allowing the accessory to be ergonomically sound. You can prop up the legs for long typing sessions. The cooling pad is also super slim, capable of easily fitting inside a bag, and weighs barely over a pound.Also: The Dell laptop I recommend to most college students is $350 off at Best BuyWho it's for: Havit's
HV-F2056 is perfect for professionals, students, or anyone working in quiet environments who neds a cooling pad that won't draw attention. Thanks to its size and portability, I would recommend it to hybrid workers who often move between home and office setups. It can even help cool down other electronics like video game consoles or wireless routers.Who should look elsewhere: This device is ideal for lightweight laptops that don't get overly hot but still benefit from extra cooling during extended use. It's not meant for high-end laptops. Its airflow is pretty weak compared to high-RPM models.Havit HV-F2056 specs: Dimensions: 14.96 x 1.18 x 11.02 inches | Weight: 1.54 pounds | Max laptop size: 17-inches | Fan RPM: 1,100 RPM | USB passthrough: Yes | LED lighting: Yes
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Which is the right laptop cooling pad for you?
It's important to consider how you plan to use your laptop cooling pad. If you want something to keep your computer cool while you work or watch a movie, then a basic cooling pad with one or two fans will suffice. But if you have many peripherals you want to connect or own a powerful gaming laptop, you should buy a more heavy-duty cooling pad with faster fans or ports.The table below can help you choose the best cooling pad for you.Choose this best laptop cooling pad...If you want...llano V12 Laptop Cooling PadThe best gaming laptop cooler. Llano's device is capable of cooling even the warmest laptops and has a striking RGB ring light.Klim EverestThe best cooling pad for its value. The Everest strikes a good balance by providing powerful and effective cooling without being super expensive.Tecknet Laptop Cooling PadA budget-friendly option. It isn't the most powerful option on this list, but Tecknet's model still performs well with fans that spin at 1,800 RPM max.IETS GT300 Double BlowerThe best ergonomic cooler. It can be adjusted to one of seven positions for maximum comfort.Razer Laptop Cooling PadThe best gaming cooling pad. Razer's device offers many customization options, including the ability to change the actions of its buttons.Aicheson K1 Gaming RGB Laptop Cooling PadThe best RGB laptop cooling pad. Aicheson's pad sports dazzling lights throughout its body and cools computers fast with its 2,800 RPM fans.Klim Cool Vacuum Laptop CoolerA portable laptop cooler. Klim's small device can cool down the warmest of laptops with its unique 3,500 vacuum fan.Havit HV-F2056A great laptop cooling pad for the office. It features a quiet fan underneath the mesh grill, and its lightweight design makes it easy to carry.
Show more
Factors to consider when choosing a laptop cooling pad:
When picking out a laptop cooling pad, there are four key factors that you should consider: Laptop size: You must ensure the cooling pad is big enough to accommodate your laptop. Conversely, if a pad is too big, it may not be able to cool down your laptop effectively. The fans on a large pad won't be able to adequately cool the warm areas on small laptops. We recommend purchasing cooling pads that fit your computer well.Comfort: Good ergonomics is important for comfort, especially if you spend a lot of time behind a computer. Hours of typing can be killer on the wrists, so we recommend choosing a laptop cooling pad that allows you to adjust its height and angle for a comfortable working experience.Fan output: Fans can get loud, so it's important to consider how noisy the cooling pad may be when looking to buy one. The manufacturer of the IETS GT500 acknowledges that their product generates so much noise that it actively recommends that buyers steer clear if they're sensitive to noise. If this is an important factor, look for fans with a lower RPM, as they're typically quieter. Be aware that slower fans mean less effective cooling.Price: The prices for laptop cooling pads can vary, although they're generally not very expensive. As you can see from this list, finding a solid pick for less than $100 is easy. Naturally, expect better performance from more expensive models.
Show more
How did we choose these laptop cooling pads?
Our search for the best laptop cooling pads began by judging the review units using the above core considerations. We looked at ergonomics, fan design, cooling performance, price, and extra features. We included the IETS GT500 despite its loud fans because of how well it cools a laptop.Once the selections were made, we tested several laptop cooling pads ourselves. We placed an old Alienware Area 51 laptop that frequently runs hot on the pads to see how well they could cool it. All the pads on the list were eventually successful in cooling my test laptop down, but some were better than others.We also looked at several sources online, such as Reddit, Amazon reviews, and other consumer sites, to see what everyday people thought were the best laptop cooling pads. Reading users' personal experiences helped us narrow the potential field and make our final picks.There really isn't a specific brand that we would recommend over the rest. Many manufacturers develop their own well-performing devices. It's just that some are better than others.
Show more
Latest information on laptop cooling pads in 2025What advancements have been for laptop cooling pads?
Laptop cooling pads, as a category of products, tend to be pretty static. I've been covering the topic for a few years now, and many devices of very similar to one another. That was my opinion until the launch of the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad.Razer took a relatively benign device and installed a ton of innovative features. The most impressive was utilizing AI to automatically adjust the fan speeds of the cooling pad to match the internal temperatures of its host laptop. Most companies are seemingly content with giving users a few static fan speeds and calling it a day. But Razer decided to take the guesswork out of the equation, providing gamers with the best experience possible.I would like to see more advancements like this in the near future. There are plenty of hold-rum laptop cooling pads out there, si I think there should be more robust options, maybe one with a full-on docking station or wireless charging pad for smartphones.
Show more
Will portable cooling pads designed for travel and hybrid work setups become the norm?
As hybrid work becomes more commonplace, there is a growing need for portable devices. I think there is a strong case for making cooling pads more portable. People could start demanding lightweight, compact solutions that can fit easily into a backpack and provide reliable performance on the go. Plus, future designs can combine their powerful cooling functionality with port hubs or wireless charging.However, I don't think that'll happen. It seems that cooling pads will maintain their current niche. Advances in laptop thermal design, from improved heat dissipation to more efficient chips, may reduce the need for an external cooling solution altogether. Plus, not all users requires additional cooling.
Show more
Latest news on laptop cooling padsLaptop cooling pads don't often see big innovations. Their evolution is pretty static, but occasionally, there is one that attempts to be unique. Case in point: the Razer Laptop Cooling Pad. Razer took the concept and implemented many innovative features. The most impressive is the adoption of AI to automatically adjust fan speeds to match the internal temperatures of its host laptop. Most companies are seemingly content with giving users a few static fan speeds and calling it a day. Razer decided to take the guesswork out of the equation, providing gamers with the best experience possible. Other cooling pad brands do often release new models, but their devices normally only see incremental changes or slight tweaks.FAQs on laptop cooling pads
Do laptop cooling pads actually work?
Yes. Cooling pads significantly reduce a computer's internal temperature. Prolonged exposure to high temperatures can seriously damage a laptop's components over time. In fact, brief heat spikes can be enough to ruin a device, so it's important to mitigate temperature levels. The cold can also negatively impact a laptop, but in my experience, heat is the more common killer.
Show more
How can I cool my laptop down without a cooling pad?
It's possible to keep your laptop's temperature low is without a cooling pad. I highly recommend the accessories on this list as they're the best at cooling down your laptop. If you want free solutions, here is what I suggest:Elevate your laptop -- Elevating a laptop ensures proper airflow to and from the vents. You can try placing the device on a stack of books or purchasing a laptop stand. For example, the Nulaxy Laptop Stand costs less than $20.Clear out obstructions -- Make sure the laptop's air vents are clear of dust. Dust can prevent proper airflow and raise internal temperatures. This is why many cooling pads with the recessed pit design come with dust filters.Optimize software -- This may sound rather obvious, but running multiple programs causes internal temperatures to rise. People who frequently have a lot of browser tabs and apps open should close all unnecessary processes. Freeing up resources will dispel heat and improve hardware performance.
Show more
How to choose the right laptop cooling pad?
If you've reviewed the list and are struggling to decide which cooling pad to purchase, here are a few extra tips. First, look at the number of fans on a cooling pad and their maximum revolutions per minute (RPM). Multiple fans can be quite noisy. If this is an issue for you, purchase devices with a lower RPM. Conversely, if you want the most effective cooling, then buy a high-end model such as the Razer Cooling Pad.You should also pay attention to the design. Does the cooling pad have good build quality? Cheaper options tend to feel flimsy. Ensure that the accessory you are interested in has a sturdy construction consisting of metal and high-quality plastic.
Show more
What temperature is too hot for a PC?
The normal operating temperature for a computer is between 40-65 degrees Celsius or 104-109 degrees Fahrenheit. When gaming, temperatures can rise up to 70-80 degrees Celsius or 158-176 degrees Fahrenheit.That sounds hot, but it's totally fine. It's even okay if internal temperatures spike to over 80 degrees Celsius. Problems start when your computer consistently operates in those upper levels. If your laptop is always around 80 degrees Celsius, you need to immediately cool your device down. Components start to cook as the computer turns into an oven.
Show more
How to check my laptop's temperature?
Keeping a close eye on your laptop's internal temperature can help you figure out what's causing heat spikes. Clicking the Performance tab on Task Manager provides some insight. It displays the graphic card's current temperature. If you want more details, I frequently use -- and strongly recommend -- installing the free Core Temp app.Core Temp actively monitors the processor temperature and other important information such as the thermal design power (TDP) in real time. Core Tempo breaks a processor's temperature down to its individual cores.
Show more
Latest updatesSeptember 2025: We added an interactive visualization chart that compares the specs of each of our top products. July 2025: For this update, we updated the pricing information as some of it was outdated. We then tweaked the text in some of the entries and refreshed the Also links. Finally, we revamped the cooling pad alternative list below.May 2025: We updated this list to provide information on why you should consider purchasing these laptop cooling pads. Each entry has a section explaining why we at ZDNET like the pad, who should purchase the device, and who should consider another option.Other laptop cooling pads we've tested Show less
View now at Amazon The Llano V13 is a variant of the llano V12, which is the top entry on this list. It has many similarities, such as the same pit design and adjustable fans, with one major difference -- the lack of RGB lighting. This single difference allows the llano Cooling Pad to fit better in an office setting. It won't be lighting up like a Christmas tree. And this single difference allows the V13 model to be cheaper, too.
Llano V13 Laptop Cooling Pad Alternative to the best laptop cooling pad
The Llano V13 is a variant of the llano V12, which is the top entry on this list. It has many similarities, such as the same pit design and adjustable fans, with one major difference -- the lack of RGB lighting. This single difference allows the llano Cooling Pad to fit better in an office setting. It won't be lighting up like a Christmas tree. And this single difference allows the V13 model to be cheaper, too.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less
Show less
View now at Amazon The Kootek Laptop Cooling Pad is a solid alternative to the Tecknet's device. It's a little bit more expensive, but the pad easily makes up for extra cost. For starters, it's able to support bigger laptops, up to 17 inches in size. This option boasts better ergonomics since users are able to adjust the height of the pad to their liking. It even has five fans in total, delivering highly effective cooling. I considered adding this option to the main list, but the cheaper Tecknet pad won out in the end. Still, if you're willing to cough up a few extra dollars, I recommend this, too.
Kootek Laptop Cooling Pad Best budget alternative
The Kootek Laptop Cooling Pad is a solid alternative to the Tecknet's device. It's a little bit more expensive, but the pad easily makes up for extra cost. For starters, it's able to support bigger laptops, up to 17 inches in size. This option boasts better ergonomics since users are able to adjust the height of the pad to their liking. It even has five fans in total, delivering highly effective cooling. I considered adding this option to the main list, but the cheaper Tecknet pad won out in the end. Still, if you're willing to cough up a few extra dollars, I recommend this, too.
Read More
Show Expert Take Show less To get more out of your laptop setup, be sure to check out ZDNET's guide on how to utilize Windows 11's new battery-saving feature and how to maximize your PC's battery life in nine easy steps.
Further ZDNET Tech Coverage
Smartphones
Best Android phone
Best smartphone
Best Samsung phone
Best iPhone
Best rugged Phones
Best Google phone
Best foldable phone
Best flip phone
Best 5G phone
Best cheap phone
Best stylus phone
Best Motorola phone
Smartwatches
Best smartwatch
Best blood pressure watch
Best Garmin Watch
Best Apple watch
Best Android smartwatch
Best Apple Watch Ultra strap
Best waterproof smartwatch
Best kids smartwatch
Best cheap smartwatch
Best sports watch
Tablets
Best smart notebook
Best iPad
Best drawing tablet
Best small tablet
Best large tablet
Best tablet for reading
Best tablet
Best note-taking tablet
Best Kindle
Best Android tablet
Best tablet for students
Best cheap tablet
Laptops
Best laptop overall
Best Linux laptop
Best laptop for graphic design
Best lightweight laptops
Best Lenovo laptop
Best budget gaming laptop
Best 15-inch laptop
Best laptop under $1000
Best Windows laptop
Best laptop for video editing
TVs
Best TV overall
Best 85-inch TV
Best 50-inch TV
Best Samsung TV
Best Sony TV
Best Roku TV
Best 40-inch TV
Best 75-inch TV
Best 32-inch TV
Best TV for PS5
Best OLED TV
Best Hisense TV
Other Tech Resources
Is Temu legit? Everything to know before placing an order
How to download YouTube videos for free
How to screen record in Windows 10 or 11
How to create a drop down list in excel
How to use Microsoft Designer’s Image Creator
How to upgrade your incompatible Windows 10 PC to Windows 11
How to find out if an AirTag is tracking you
How to screen mirror Android to TV
How to turn on private DNS mode on Android
What is ChatGPT?
How to record a call on iPhone
How to record a call on your Android phone
ZDNET Recommends
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
The best smartwatches you can buy: Apple, Samsung, Google, and more compared
The 5 best VPN services (and tips to choose the right one for you)
The best Android phones you can buy (including a surprise pick)
The best robot vacuum and mop combos (and if they're worth the money)
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use