Shari Redstone, Liev Schreiber and others sign an open letter to reject Israel film industry boycott : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Shari Redstone, Liev Schreiber and others sign an open letter to reject Israel film industry boycott Over 1,200 Hollywood figures, among them Liev Schreiber, Mayim Bialik and Sharon Osbourne, signed a letter on Thursday rejecting a previous call to boycott Israeli film groups.
Culture
Hollywood now has dueling open letters over the Israel film boycott
September 25, 20257:08 PM ET
By
Chloe Veltman
,
Mandalit del Barco
Sharon Osbourne, left, Liev Schreiber and Mayim Bialik are among the 1,200-plus Hollywood figures who have signed an open letter pushing back against a previous, widely-signed industry boycott of Israeli film groups.
Matt Winkelmeyer; Jeff Spicer; Aldara Zarraoa/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Matt Winkelmeyer; Jeff Spicer; Aldara Zarraoa/Getty Images
Hollywood is divided over the war in Gaza and is expressing it through dueling open letters. More than 5,000 actors and filmmakers, including Pedro Pascal, Javier Bardem and Selena Gomez, signed an open letter on Sept. 9 pledging to boycott Israeli film groups. Now, more than 1,200 other Hollywood figures, among them Liev Schreiber, Mayim Bialik and Sharon Osbourne, have signed a similar letter rejecting the boycott.
Middle East conflict
Hollywood stars back boycott as Israel's minister targets film academy
Culture
Hollywood stars boycott Israeli film companies in response to Gaza crisis
"We cannot stay silent when a story is turned into a weapon, when lies are dressed up as justice, and when artists are misled into amplifying antisemitic propaganda," states the letter, which was published on Thursday by the entertainment industry nonprofits Creative Community For Peace and The Brigade. Condemning the first open letter as "a document of misinformation that advocates for arbitrary censorship and the erasure of art," the signers ask the entertainment industry to "reject this discriminatory and antisemitic boycott call that only adds another roadblock on the path to peace."
Sponsor Message
The letter goes on to say that the pledge "erases dissenting Israeli voices, legitimizes falsehoods, and shields Hamas from blame." Addressing the signers of the boycott pledge, the letter urges, "If you want peace, "call for the immediate release of the remaining hostages" and "stand against Hamas." People who signed the original letter pledged to avoid screening films or working with Israeli film institutions that they allege are "implicated in genocide and apartheid against the Palestinian people." It was published in five languages by Filmmakers for Palestine – which describes itself as "a call by and for filmmakers and cinema workers to stand for an end to genocide, and for a free Palestine." Israel strongly denies allegations that it is committing genocide in Gaza. In addition to Pascal, Bardem and Gomez, the original letter was signed by Emma Stone, Gael Garcia Bernal, Alyssa Milano, Olivia Colman, Brian Cox and Ilana Glazer, among many others. Filmmakers included Ava DuVernay, Adam McKay and Yorgos Lanthimos. In a statement to NPR, Filmmakers for Palestine dismissed the letter from Creative Community for Peace as "nothing more than thinly veiled anti-Palestinian racism."
Culture
When celebrities show up to protest, the media follows — but so does the backlash
The new letter has fewer A-list talent among its signatories. But it includes such behind-the-scenes heavyweights as former Paramount Global chair Shari Redstone, Mattel chairman and CEO Ynon Kreiz, Will & Grace creator David Kohan, and Fernando Szew, CEO of FOX Entertainment Global. The letter follows a response to the boycott by Paramount Studios, the only major studio to speak out on the call for a boycott. "Silencing individual creative artists based on their nationality does not promote better understanding or advance the cause of peace," a statement issued on behalf of Paramount chief communications officer Melissa Zukerman on Sept. 12 reads. "The global entertainment industry should be encouraging artists to tell their stories and share their ideas with audiences throughout the world. We need more engagement and communication — not less."
Hollywood
Hamas-Israel war
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor