Trump administration fires more immigration judges : NPR
Accessibility links
Skip to main content
Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
Open Navigation Menu
Newsletters
NPR Shop
Close Navigation Menu
Home
News
Expand/collapse submenu for News
National
World
Politics
Business
Health
Science
Climate
Race
Culture
Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
Books
Movies
Television
Pop Culture
Food
Art & Design
Performing Arts
Life Kit
Gaming
Music
Expand/collapse submenu for Music
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
Podcasts & Shows
Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
Daily
Morning Edition
Weekend Edition Saturday
Weekend Edition Sunday
All Things Considered
Fresh Air
Up First
Featured
Embedded
The NPR Politics Podcast
Throughline
Trump's Terms
More Podcasts & Shows
Search
Newsletters
NPR Shop
All Songs Considered
Tiny Desk
New Music Friday
Music Features
Live Sessions
About NPR
Diversity
Support
Careers
Press
Ethics
Trump administration fires more immigration judges Nearly 20 immigration judges received emails this month informing them that they are being let go, NPR has learned, the largest single month of firings since the process began in February.
Exclusive
Immigration
Trump administration fires more immigration judges
September 23, 202510:00 AM ET
Ximena Bustillo
Federal agents patrol the halls of immigration court at the Jacob K. Javitz Federal Building on Aug. 28.
Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
hide caption
toggle caption
Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images
Nearly 20 immigration judges received emails this month informing them that they are being let go, NPR has learned, adding to the over 80 judges that have already been cut by President Trump so far this year. At least 14 immigration judges learned last Friday that they would be put on leave and that their employment would terminate as soon as Wednesday in some cases, according to two people familiar with the firings and a confirmation from the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers (IFPTE), a union that represents immigration judges. The two people spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals. Courts in Florida, New York, Maryland, California and Washington state are among those affected.
Sponsor Message
Immigration
Confusion, explosive anger and waiting: NPR spent a day in New York immigration court
The move follows the firing of five other immigration judges earlier this month. The firings in September constitute the largest terminations in any month since two dozen immigration judges were fired in February right before their first day on the job. The firings are seemingly at odds with the Trump administration's goals of immigration enforcement, advocates say. The administration counters that immigration judges have not managed their mounting caseloads effectively, and that it has taken steps to streamline the process involved in adjudicating cases. The dispute provides a window into just how complicated the Trump administration's efforts to lower illegal immigration and deport millions of undocumented people are. Union leaders had been bracing for large cuts this month since it marked the end of the two-year probationary period for many immigration judges. The increased firings come as the Trump administration is trying to increase the number of deportations. Immigration judges, who are more like civil servants, can approve or deny a final order of deportation. Still, immigration advocates argue the high priority on immigration law enforcement is reducing the limited due process that immigrants receive because the dismissed judges are either replaced with adjudicators with no experience or are not replaced at all.
Sponsor Message
"The dismissal of more immigration judges is an illogical and costly setback for the nation's immigration courts," said IFPTE President Matt Biggs in a statement to NPR. "At a time when the backlog has reached historic levels and the administration has made immigration enforcement a central issue, the removal of experienced judges is hypocritical, undermines the law, wastes taxpayer dollars, and further delays justice for citizens and immigrants alike." Not all judges to be dismissed this year have been at the end of their probationary period with the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), which is a part of the U.S. Justice Department. Still, the firings have resulted in a culture of fear among EOIR employees. Dozens took the "Fork in the Road," a voluntary resignation program introduced after President Trump took office aimed at reducing the size of the federal workforce. EOIR declined to comment.
Immigration
Inside one of the most understaffed immigration courts in the country
In the past nine months, EOIR has lost more than 125 judges to firings and voluntary resignations, down from about 700 judges at the start of the year. The loss of judges has resulted in immigration cases being delayed as far out as 2029, NPR previously reported, as vacancies increase despite open job postings to fill roles in those courts. Terminations continue amid growing backlogs The latest sets of terminations landed after Congress approved a mega-spending bill that allocated over $3 billion to the Justice Department for immigration-related activities, including hiring more immigration judges. The funding and additional personnel are aimed at alleviating the growing case backlog, which stands at nearly 4 million. Hiring and training new judges can take more than a year. In recent months, EOIR leadership has criticized judges for not efficiently managing their caseloads, and has encouraged adjudicators to streamline asylum reviews and give oral, as opposed to written, decisions on case dismissals.
Immigration
Military lawyers called up to relieve a shortfall in immigration judges
Earlier this month, about 600 military lawyers were authorized to work for the Justice Department as temporary immigration judges. And the DOJ made changes to who could qualify as a temporary immigration judge — effectively lowering the requirements and removing the need to have prior immigration experience.
immigration courts
Facebook
Flipboard
Email
Read & Listen
Home
News
Culture
Music
Podcasts & Shows
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Instagram
Press
Public Editor
Corrections
Transcripts
Contact & Help
About NPR
Overview
Diversity
NPR Network
Accessibility
Ethics
Finances
Get Involved
Support Public Radio
Sponsor NPR
NPR Careers
NPR Shop
NPR Events
NPR Extra
Terms of Use
Privacy
Your Privacy Choices
Text Only
Sponsor Message
Sponsor MessageBecome an NPR sponsor