The PC hardware industry needs to step up in 2026
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
The PC hardware industry needs to step up in 2026
Credit: XDA
By
Tanveer Singh
Published Sep 2, 2025
After a 7-year corporate stint, Tanveer found his love for writing and tech too much to resist. An MBA in Marketing and the owner of a PC building business, he writes on PC hardware, technology, and Windows. When not scouring the web for ideas, he can be found building PCs, watching anime, or playing Smash Karts on his RTX 3080 (sigh).
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
2025 still has four months left, but we don't have any more hardware launches scheduled for this year. So, I believe it's time to take out my notes and present my 2026 wishlist for the PC hardware industry. We got new GPUs from Nvidia and AMD this year, some more X3D CPUs from AMD, and some rumors of RTX 50 Super refresh coming later this year. Overall, this generation has been a mixed bag. While AMD's RX 9000 GPUs impressed many gamers, Nvidia's RTX 50 series was disappointing. Intel's Arrow Lake was a step backwards, and AMD's Zen 5 CPUs failed to justify upgrading from Zen 4. And for most of the year, it was downright impossible to buy anything at MSRP. What do I want from 2026? Compelling generational gains, more VRAM becoming the norm, more competition in the high-end GPU segment, and fewer paper launches, for starters.
6
Affordable OLED monitors
I'm finally hopeful
For the longest time, OLED monitors have remained elusive for the majority of gamers — spending over $900 on a display is just too much for most people. In early 2025, we finally saw numerous 1440p high-refresh OLED monitors descend into the sub-$700 range. This isn't cheap, but a downward trend hints at a more affordable future for top-tier gaming displays. And with the recent launch of some tandem OLED monitors under $700, prices are sure to drop further next year. Once OLED monitors are easily available for under $500, we'll see a rapid spurt in adoption, especially since new technologies like tandem OLED are already improving brightness and lifespan. I waited a long time before spending around $600 on the Alienware AW3423DWF a few weeks ago, but if 2026 brings much-improved OLED displays in the $500 range, I'd happily consider selling my new OLED display and getting a more advanced model instead.
5
AMD back in the high-end GPU race
RDNA 4 laid a strong foundation
AMD backed out of the high-end GPU segment long before announcing its RX 90 series GPUs. What we got, however, was better than anyone expected. The RX 9070 XT and RX 9070 received rave reviews, thanks to the much-improved ray tracing and upscaling performance, and lower prices than the competition. What this new generation didn't do was move AMD's measly 8% market share. In fact, the Steam Hardware Survey for August has no mention of the new RX 90 series GPUs. Nvidia continues to dominate the GPU market, and I feel now that AMD has proved that RDNA 4 can go toe-to-toe with Nvidia, the company should focus on re-entering the high-end segment. If AMD manages to deliver a compelling high-end GPU in 2026, while undercutting Nvidia and providing better value for money, I think we'll finally see the market share start to shift towards Team Red. We have the foundation in place with RDNA 4 and FSR 4; what we need is a strong follow-up to this generation that can revitalize the stagnant GPU war.
SAPPHIRE PULSE Radeon RX 9070 XT
The RX 9070 XT is a fantastic 1440p GPU, if you can get it at or around MSRP. Thanks to advanced ray tracing, upscaling, and frame generation performance, it can compete with the best Nvidia has to offer in this price range.
$750 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
4
12GB VRAM becoming the bare minimum
It should have happened in 2022
Talking about new GPUs, it's fair to say most of the community hasn't been happy with how much VRAM modern GPUs are getting. And it's not just Nvidia that didn't get the memo; even AMD's RX 9060 XT has an 8GB VRAM variant. At least Intel isn't doing the same thing with its Battlemage GPUs. Insufficient VRAM has made many new graphics cards like the RTX 5060 Ti 8GB become instantly obsolete, since multiple titles now easily demand more than 8GB of VRAM. 12GB of VRAM should have already become the minimum during the RTX 40 series launch, but manufacturers failed to respond. In late 2026, when Nvidia and AMD might launch their next-gen GPUs, we shouldn't see a single graphics card launch with 8GB VRAM (or lower). For gamers with older hardware still running on PCIe 3.0, 8GB VRAM GPUs can severely tank performance, nullifying their supposed affordability. 16GB of VRAM is ideal in 2025, but let's start with making 12GB the norm.
3
Intel back to form with Nova Lake
It's about time
Intel is in dire straits right now, as evidenced by the corporate upheaval, terrible stock price, and unstable products. After the instability scandal of its 13th and 14th Gen CPUs, the Arrow Lake CPUs also failed to impress anyone. The Core Ultra CPUs were actually slower than the 14th Gen Core CPUs in gaming, and power efficiency, although improved, wasn't where it needed to be. No one benefits from less competition, and that's why Intel needs to make a big comeback with Nova Lake in late 2026. Expected to use a mix of TSMC's N2 (2nm) and Intel's own 18A (1.8nm) process nodes, the Nova Lake CPUs are rumored to launch with some massive upgrades over Arrow Lake. Some reports suggest the Nova Lake CPUs could feature a maximum of 52 cores, thanks to a combination of 16 P-cores, 32 E-cores, and 4 low-power E-cores. Whatever Intel cooks up with Nova Lake, it better be competitive with AMD's Zen 6 series; otherwise, it's going to be all Team Red for 2027.
2
AMD correcting Zen 5 mistakes with Zen 6
We have a bit of a Ryzen backlog
Intel might have fumbled the Arrow Lake launch, but AMD's Zen 5 series didn't exactly break records either. The Ryzen 9000 CPUs were, more or less, a minor refresh of the Ryzen 7000 chips (excluding the X3D variants), which was clear when you compared them in terms of gaming performance (remember Zen 5%). Power efficiency might have improved over Zen 4, but that was never a problem with the Ryzen 7000 CPUs.
With Zen 5 just feeling like repackaged Zen 4, I want the next-gen Zen 6 chips to deliver some strong gains in late 2026. Reports suggest that these chips will rely on TSMC's N2P (2nm) process node, competing directly with Intel's Nova Lake in terms of lithography. Upgrading from a Ryzen 7000 CPU to a Ryzen 9000 one made little sense, but if Ryzen 10000 (or whatever AMD ends up calling it) gives us promising gains, many gamers will readily switch from their Zen 4 CPUs on their existing AM5 motherboards.
1
Realistic MSRPs and stuff we can actually buy
Is that too much to hope for?
Source: Nvidia
The dark cloud of paper launches and imaginary prices loomed large over every hardware launch of 2025. For weeks and even months at a stretch, consumers were unable to buy GPUs and CPUs at prices close to MSRP. Stocks were agonizingly low, retailers were forced to raise prices over MSRP, and just being able to buy hardware felt like a luxury. By the time 2026 rolls in, I hope the worst of it is behind us. Many of us believe that buying GPUs at MSRP might never be a thing again, but the sentiment is born from the terrible market conditions we witnessed this year. Prices have started to normalize now, but we don't know what new GPU launches will have in store for us. Even the Ryzen 7 9800X3D was out of stock for weeks after launch, so it's not just a GPU problem. Lower yields, supply shortages, and trade wars threaten to destabilize PC component prices again, but I'm still hoping things get better next year.
This year wasn't the best, but I have hopes for 2026
Whether it's about new graphics cards, CPUs, or OLED monitors, I still dare to believe that 2026 will bring better times for gaming PCs. The prices of OLED displays have been steadily dropping, and new models are launching in the sub-$700 range instead of exclusively in the $1000+ range. After a disappointing showing from Intel and AMD in the CPU department, I hope the only way is up for Nova Lake and Zen 6. And as far as GPUs are concerned, if we get a healthy VRAM bump, similar prices, and a decent gen-on-gen boost, I'll be satisfied.
Other Hardware
PC
AMD
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 10, 2025
I replaced a dedicated NVR with Frigate and I'll never go back
Sep 9, 2025
Avoid these 6 common Linux mistakes that beginners often make
Sep 9, 2025
6 lightweight tools I install before anything else on a new PC
Sep 9, 2025
I discovered this open-source productivity app by accident, and it ended up replacing Notion for me
Today's best deals
You can't go wrong with this 2TB external HDD if you're looking to grab extra storage for cheap
10 hours ago
If you're looking for a gaming laptop on a budget, this is it
13 hours ago
This brand-new, niche Steam game with 94% positive reviews is already 20% off
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
This open-source project turns old PCs into voice controllers for Home Assistant - and it's completely free
3 reasons PCIe risers are a bad idea for your shiny new gaming PC
MQTT is the secret to a calm and organized smart home
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.