How to Access The Dark Web Safely - BleepingComputer
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft September 2025 Patch Tuesday fixes 81 flaws, two zero-days
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Microsoft testing new AI features in Windows 11 File Explorer
Hackers left empty-handed after massive NPM supply-chain attack
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
FinWise insider breach impacts 689K American First Finance customers
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft: Exchange 2016 and 2019 reach end of support in 30 days
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeVPNsGuidesHow to access the dark web safely using a VPN
We are reader supported and may receive a commission if you buy using links on this page
How to access the dark web safely using a VPN
By Justin Schamotta - Cybersecurity & VPN Expert
June 2, 2025
04:20 AM
0
It's important to use a VPN when accessing the dark web to protect your online safety and identity. This guide explains everything you need to know.
The dark web is something of a mystery to the average internet user. It tends to conjure vague notions of bad people secretly doing bad things. But while it certainly is a place where illegal activities are facilitated, it can also be a force for good.
Its inherent anonymity allows everyone from dissidents to whistle-blowers the opportunity to share information free from persecution. In many cases, this information can itself be used to prevent illegal activities.
Using a VPN in conjunction with the Tor (The Onion Router) browser is the best way to access the dark web safely. A dark web VPN prevents websites and your ISP from knowing when you’re using the Tor browser. This is good practice generally, but particularly important in countries where the Tor browser is blocked, such as China, Russia, Belarus, and Turkmenistan.
How to access the dark web safely using a VPN
The most common way to safely access the dark web is by connecting to a VPN and then opening the Tor browser. This is referred to as Tor over VPN. The steps below tell you how to do it.
How to use a VPN to access the dark web:
Sign up to a VPN with a no-logs policy. All of our recommended VPNs meet this requirement, though NordVPN is ultimately the best option.
Download the relevant app for whichever operating system you’re using.
Install the app and restart your device when it’s complete.
Open the app and press the “connect” button.
Wait for the app to confirm connection.
Visit the Tor Project and download the correct version for your operating system.
Install the Tor Browser on your system.
Click on the onion icon to open the browser and click “connect”.
You can now access the dark web with the added protection of a VPN.
We’ll get into more detail about individual providers later in this article. In the meantime, here’s a summary of our top choices.
Best VPNs to safely access the dark web:
NordVPN: Our #1 choice VPN for safely using the dark web. Connects you to the Tor network without having to download the Tor browser. Has a large network of highly secure servers and maintains strict privacy. Plans come with a risk-free 30-day money-back guarantee.
Surfshark: Best budget VPN for accessing the dark web safely. Has thousands of secure servers in 100+ countries. Adheres to a no-logs policy and allows unlimited device connections.
ExpressVPN: Has its own site on the dark web to let people subscribe in countries where it is blocked. Combines fast connection speeds with attractive apps and impressive security features.
Proton VPN: Allows connection to the Tor network – and access to the dark web – in a single click. Advanced encryption and speed boosts for long-distance connections. Strong emphasis on security.
Mullvad: Enables VPN Over Tor connections and a completely anonymous sign-up process. Combines advanced encryption with a good range of security features. Excellent speeds.
PrivateVPN: Offers adjustable encryption levels and VPN Over Tor to help you access sites that block Tor traffic. Fast speeds and works well with streaming platforms.
Summary Table
No value
TEST WINNER
No value
No value
No value
No value
No value
No value
NordVPN
www.nordvpn.com
Surfshark
www.surfshark.com
ExpressVPN
www.expressvpn.com
Proton VPN
www.protonvpn.com
Mullvad
https://mullvad.net
PrivateVPN
www.privatevpn.com
Ranking
1
2
3
4
5
6
Logging Policy
No identifying data
No logs stored
No identifying data
No logs stored
No logs stored
No logs stored
Number of Servers
5,400
3,200
3,000
3,800
800+
200+
Best deal (per month)
$3.09Up to 77% OFF + 3 months FREE
$1.9987% off 2yr starter plan + 3 months free!
$3.49Save up to 73% + 4 mo FREE
$3.59SAVE 64%
$5.50$5.50/mo
$2.00SAVE 85% on 3yr plan
The right VPN can make accessing the dark web seem a little less intimidating. Our recommendations were made using the following criteria:
Speed
Privacy
Security
Server network
Value for money
Ease of use
In addition, the top three providers were required to have the following attributes:
Diskless servers
Independently audited no-logs policy
Independent audit of security infrastructure
For more information on how we evaluate VPNs, check out the testing methodology section later in this article.
WANT TO TRY THE TOP VPN RISK FREE?
NordVPN is offering a fully-featured
risk-free
30-day trial if you sign up at this page
. You can use the VPN rated #1 with no restrictions for a month - great if you want to binge your favorite show or are going on a short trip.
There are no hidden terms - just contact support within 30 days if you decide NordVPN isn't right for you and you'll get a full refund.
Start your NordVPN trial here
.
Best VPNs to access the dark web safely
Let's take a closer look at the best VPNs you can use to safely access the dark web.
1. NordVPN
Website: www.nordvpn.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs, Linux
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 7.5/10
Value for Money: 9/10
Streaming: 10/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 10/10
Customer Support: 10/10
NordVPN has a huge worldwide network of RAM-only servers and high standards of both privacy and security. It makes visiting the dark web easy, with dedicated Onion Over VPN servers that connect you to the Tor network via the VPN. This negates the need to download, install, and run the Tor browser separately, and lets you access the Tor network without your ISP knowing.
Other NordVPN features include the use of two servers to double up on encryption; an automatic kill switch; a dark web monitor that issues alerts if your email address is leaked online; and threat protection, which blocks ads, trackers, and malware.
NordVPN is great for accessing streaming services such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, HBO, and ABC. This is partially thanks to its SmartPlay feature, which automatically switches your DNS server when you try to access geo-restricted content. If you have devices that aren’t compatible with VPNs, NordVPN also offers a Smart DNS feature that lets you access streaming platforms using smart TVs and games consoles.
For devices that are compatible, NordVPN has dedicated apps for Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Linux, and Amazon Fire TV. There are also encrypted proxy extensions for browsers available.
While connected through NordVPN, your internet traffic is protected using AES 256-bit encryption. NordVPN adheres to a strict no-logs policy, which has been twice verified by independent auditors. This allows you to use public WiFi privately and without fear of hacking. There's no chance of your real IP address leaking, while it benefits from some of the fastest speeds on the market.
While NordVPN is undoubtedly a great service, it’s not without fault. In 2018, someone gained access to a third-party data center in Finland. NordVPN responded aggressively by upgrading its entire infrastructure to RAM-only servers and ending its reliance on rented servers. It also introduced a bug bounty program, hired a cybersecurity consulting firm to test its infrastructure, and then carried out a third-party security audit.
Pros:
All-in-one Tor service available
Fast, RAM-only servers
Audited no logs policy
Works in China
Diskless infrastructure
Cons:
Some slow servers
BEST VPN FOR USING THE DARK WEB SAFELY: NordVPN is our #1 choice for accessing dark web sites. It has dedicated servers to connect you to a VPN and the Tor Network in a single click, and it offers a range of other security features. Plans include a risk-free 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of NordVPN.
NordVPN Coupon
Up to 77% off 2 year plans + 3 months free
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
2. Surfshark
Website: www.surfshark.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs, Linux
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 7/10
Value for Money: 9/10
Streaming: 10/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 9.8/10
Customer Support: 10/10
Surfshark is a low-cost provider that ticks all the boxes for use with the dark web. It has a large network of secure servers, the ability to keep connections private, and apps that are rich in security features.
These include a clean web service that blocks ads, trackers, and malware; split tunneling, which lets you choose which apps bypass the VPN tunnel; a kill switch; and a No Borders mode that detects network restrictions and tries to bypass them by offering alternative servers to connect to.
All Surfshark servers are RAM-only and support the WireGuard, IKEv2, and OpenVPN protocols. The company operates a strict no-logs policy and protects internet traffic using AES-256-GCM encryption together with a SHA512 authentication hash and 2048-bit DHE-RSA key exchange.
Connection speeds are very fast, and you should be able to stream HD and 4K content without buffering. Surfshark works well with streaming platforms and is able to access geo-restricted content from the likes of Netflix, HBO, Hulu, and Disney+.
Subscriptions allow users unlimited device connections, and there are apps available for Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Linux, and Amazon Fire TV. All apps are free from IP, DNS, and WebRTC leaks.
In 2022, Surfshark completed its merger with Nord Security, the parent company of NordVPN. Although Surfshark says it will continue to run autonomously, the expansion of companies like Nord Security – as well as the likes of Ziff Davis, Kape Technologies, and Aura – marks a further constriction of choice in the VPN market.
Pros:
Audited zero logs policy
Private search engine
Unlimited device connections
GUI for Linux-users
Diskless infrastructure
Cons:
WireGuard not used by default
BEST BUDGET OPTION: Surfshark is a low-cost VPN to safely access the dark web. It has a global network of speedy servers, excellent security credentials, and a solid privacy policy. Comes with a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of Surfshark.
Surfshark Coupon
Get 3 Months FREE with a 2-year plan
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
3. ExpressVPN
Website: www.expressvpn.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs, Linux
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 6/10
Value for Money: 6/10
Streaming: 9/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 9.5/10
Customer Support: 6/10
ExpressVPN offers a version of its site on the dark web, which allows you to sign up anonymously. Outside of the Tor network, ExpressVPN provides very quick connection speeds and access to a host of geo-restricted streaming services. This includes Netflix, Hulu, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, and HBO Max.
Features of its well-designed apps include split tunneling, which allows you to choose which apps use the VPN and which connect normally; a kill switch to prevent data from being exposed if the VPN connection fails; and a threat manager, which blocks ads, trackers, and malicious websites.
ExpressVPN protects your internet traffic using 256-bit AES channel strong encryption together with 4096-bit DHE-RSA keys and a SHA512 hash authentication. The company has an independently audited no-logs policy and its comprehensive server network is RAM-only. It comes with DNS leak protection and works well if you're aiming to improve online privacy.
Apps are available for Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Android TV, Nvidia Shield, Linux, and Amazon Fire TV. ExpressVPN is unusual among VPN providers in that it also has an app for routers. This is useful, as its connection limit of eight devices is relatively easy to max out. Installing ExpressVPN on your router provides protection for all the devices on your home network. You'll find a selection of server locations to pick from in 105+ countries.
Kape Technologies bought ExpressVPN in 2021 and now owns a number of leading brands. ExpressVPN continues to undergo independent audits of both its privacy policy and infrastructure. In 2022, ExpressVPN announced that it was offering a $100,000 bug bounty to anyone able to compromise its systems.
Pros:
Audited no logs policy
Excellent speeds, RAM-only servers
Dedicated router app
Works in China and the UAE
Diskless infrastructure
Cons:
Relatively expensive
DARK WEB PRESENCE: ExpressVPN has its own Onion site and offers access to thousands of secure servers worldwide. It’s simple to use and great for privacy. Plans come with a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of ExpressVPN.
ExpressVPN Coupon
SAVE: 73% on the 2 year basic plan + 4 months free!
Get Deal >
Coupon applied automatically
4. Proton VPN
Website: www.protonvpn.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs, Linux
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 9/10
Value for Money: 7/10
Streaming: 8/10
Ease of use: 6/10
Privacy: 10/10
Customer Support: 7/10
Proton VPN makes it easy to safely gain access to the dark web by connecting users to the Tor Network in a single click. Its server network includes dedicated nodes set up to reroute internet traffic through the Tor network. Tor Over VPN servers are identified with an onion symbol and found in the country list.
Other Proton VPN features include alternative routing to bypass internet blocks; a stealth mode, which makes VPN traffic look like regular traffic; a kill switch in all apps; split tunneling; double VPN connections; and an ad, tracker, and malware blocker.
Internet traffic is protected using 256-bit AES encryption, together with a SHA384 hash and 4096-bit RSA keys for OpenVPN and IKEv2. WireGuard uses ChaCha20 for symmetric encryption. The company enforces a strict no-logs policy and is based in Switzerland, which has some of the world’s strongest privacy laws.
Proton VPN has decent connection speeds and has tools for giving long-distance connections a bump. Its VPN Accelerator distributes the CPU load between multiple processes in OpenVPN, and modifies the servers’ Linux stacks to shorten the normal packet processing path.
Apps are available for Windows, macOS, iOS, Android, Android TV, and Linux. Proton VPN can also be manually configured with compatible routers. Subscribers are allowed to connect up to 10 devices simultaneously.
Proton VPN is part of the Proton family of services provided by Proton Technologies AG. These include ProtonMail, Drive, and Calendar. While ProtonMail has a solid commitment to privacy, its location has caused problems for users in the past. In 2021, it was forced by the Swiss courts to begin logging the IP addresses and browser fingerprint information of one of its customers.
Nevertheless, Proton VPN says that the situation is different for VPNs. “Within the current Swiss legal framework,” it says, “Proton VPN does not have forced logging obligations.” It goes on to recommend the use of a VPN or Tor connection when using its email client. In any case, it can be used for any dark web activity thanks to various privacy features.
Pros:
One-click connection to Tor
Excellent security
Speed boost for patchy connections
Allows the user to connect with complete anonymity
Cons:
Relatively expensive
Small server network
TOR CONNECTIONS: Proton VPN lets you safely access the dark web without having to install the Tor browser first. Excellent security and anti-censorship credentials. Subscriptions include a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of Proton VPN.
ProtonVPN Coupon
SAVE 64% on a two-year plan
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
5. Mullvad
Website: https://mullvad.net
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 10/10
Value for Money: 6/10
Streaming: 4/10
Ease of use: 8.9/10
Privacy: 10/10
Customer Support: 7/10
Mullvad is one of the few providers that offer the VPN Over Tor configuration to access the dark web. This involves passing internet traffic through the Tor network first, and then through the VPN. It’s a less recommended configuration, though it does offer protection against exit nodes run by those with malicious intent.
Other Mullvad features include traffic obfuscation, which is useful for connecting in countries where internet use is restricted; an always-on option; kill switches; split tunneling; and a tracker, ad, and malware blocker.
The company may not have a large server network and access to much in the way of geo-restricted streaming content, but it does have plenty going for it in terms of privacy. You can sign up for the service completely anonymously, use a cryptographically signed installer, and double up on encryption using MultiHop servers.
Mullvad only uses the OpenVPN and WireGuard protocols. The former protects traffic using AES-256-GCM encryption and 4096-bit RSA certificates with SHA512 for server authentication. The latter uses ChaCha20 for symmetric encryption, which is authenticated with Poly1305. In a nutshell, both protocols are highly secure.
Apps are independently audited for security and are available for Windows, macOS, Linux, iOS, and Android. Mullvad can also be installed on compatible routers.
Although Mullvad has a detailed and independently audited no-logs policy, it is nevertheless based in Sweden, which is a member of the SIGINT Seniors Europe international intelligence-sharing alliance. For its part, Mullvad says that it would “cease operation of our service” if forced by legal means to spy on users.
Pros:
VPN Over Tor option
Anonymous sign-up
Independently audited apps and infrastructure
Strong privacy, comprehensive security
Cons:
No good for streaming
Small server network
ANONYMOUS SIGN-UP: Mullvad lets you access the dark web using the VPN Over Tor configuration. It also allows you to subscribe anonymously and keeps data safe using advanced encryption. Mullvad plans come with a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of Mullvad.
Mullvad Coupon
$5.50 per month on any plan
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
6. PrivateVPN
Website: www.privatevpn.com
OS: Windows, Mac, iOS, Android, Smart TVs
Money Back Guarantee: 30 days
Speed: 4/10
Value for Money: 9/10
Streaming: 8/10
Ease of use: 10/10
Privacy: 8/10
Customer Support: 9.4/10
PrivateVPN is another relatively unusual provider in that it offers the VPN Over Tor configuration. The company’s website provides detailed instructions on how to use it. Again, we don’t recommend this method, though it might be preferred if the security of Tor exit nodes is of concern.
The Sweden-based VPN has a small server network, but it’s relatively fast and able to access geo-restricted content from streaming providers such as Netflix, BBC iPlayer, Amazon Prime Video, Disney+, and Hulu.
PrivateVPN features include a stealth mode, which enables you to evade blocks in countries like China; automatic start-up; and a kill switch, which prevents unprotected internet use if the VPN connection drops out.
Internet traffic is secured using adjustable levels of encryption. You can choose 256-bit for maximum protection or 128-bit if you want a faster connection. These both use SHA256 for authentication and 2,048-bit RSA keys. There are multiple protocol options available and protection against IPv6 leaks and DNS leaks.
PrivateVPN allows torrenting and has dedicated servers in its home country for just that purpose. Torrenters can also make use of port forwarding, which allows connections to more peers in a torrent swarm.
Subscriptions allow users to connect up to 10 devices simultaneously. Apps are available for Windows, macOS (both Macs and MacBooks), iOS, Android, and Amazon Fire TV.
PrivateVPN is based in Sweden, which is a member of the SIGINT Seniors Europe international intelligence-sharing alliance. Although PrivateVPN has what sounds like a true no-logs policy, it has yet to be independently audited. It will still be able to get the job done if you're interested in dark web browsing.
Pros:
Offers VPN Over Tor
Lots of customization options
Good access to streaming services
Excellent speeds
Cons:
Small server network
Based in Sweden
CUSTOMIZABLE SECURITY: PrivateVPN allows control over security settings, and makes VPN Over Tor connections possible. Its small server network is fast and able to access content from major streaming providers. Plans come with a 30-day money-back guarantee.
Read our full review of PrivateVPN.
PrivateVPN Coupon
SAVE 85% on the three year plan
Get Deal >
Discount applied automatically
Methodology for choosing the best VPN for safely accessing the dark web
You want to be as safe as possible during your first forays into the dark web. While a VPN can help with this, it can also be used for everyday browsing and streaming. We value products that offer this versatility, which is why we considered the following when making our recommendations:
Speed: The Tor network bounces your traffic around the world, from relay to relay, adding layers of encryption in the process. Unsurprisingly, this makes for slower connections. The last thing you need, then, is a VPN that further slows your speeds. With this in mind, we’ve only selected fast VPNs.
Privacy: We check every VPN’s logging policy to ensure that it collects no personally identifiable information. Ideally, providers should allow you to pay for subscriptions using cryptocurrency.
Security: VPN providers should protect your internet traffic using effectively uncrackable encryption as well as offering DNS, IPv6, and WebRTC leak prevention. We prefer those that offer additional security features such as obfuscated servers, kill switches, and double hop connections.
Server network: Large server networks help facilitate faster connection speeds and offer more opportunities to access geo-restricted content around the world. The best VPNs have thousands of servers in their network and are able to access major streaming services, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, BBC iPlayer, HBO, and Disney+.
Value for money: The better VPNs require you to take out a subscription. We check that providers offer a level of service consummate with their fees. If the two don’t tally, we don’t include them.
Ease of use: Navigating the dark web is tricky enough without also struggling to navigate a VPN’s apps. We check that each of their UIs is intuitive and allows beginners to quickly find their way around. Providers should offer dedicated apps for all major operating systems. Ideally, they should also be compatible with routers.
Bonus points
As well as the criteria above, we also award bonus points to VPN companies that provide any of the following:
Proven track record in China: China has an incredibly sophisticated system in place for blocking VPNs. Most VPNs now do not work, including those that have in the recent past – such as Mullvad and PrivateVPN. At the time of writing, NordVPN, ExpressVPN, and Surfshark all work within the country – though even their services are occasionally interrupted. Outages normally only last a matter of days, and customers are notified when they’re back up and running.
RAM-only servers: ExpressVPN was the first provider to make its entire server network RAM-only. NordVPN and Surfshark quickly followed suit as the benefits of diskless servers became obvious. For one, their inability to permanently store data makes them less useful to hackers and investigative authorities. They are also better for security as the network can be managed remotely. Furthermore, the entire software stack being reinstalled at startup on every server improves performance and reliability.
Based in countries that aren’t members of known intelligence alliances: It’s no secret that the intelligence agencies of many countries share information. The best-known agreement is between the UK, the US, Germany, France, and Spain – the so-called 5 Eyes alliance. This has been expanded to include nine other countries since its inception in 1941. The best VPNs intentionally place themselves beyond the reach of known intelligence-sharing alliances. For example, NordVPN is based in Panama, and ExpressVPN in the British Virgin Islands. Unlike those in Europe and the US, the governments of these countries are not compelled to share information with countries that request it. Furthermore, both of these countries have recently adopted GDPR-style legislation: Law No. 81 on Personal Data Protection 2019 in Panama, and Data Protection Act 2021 in the British Virgin Islands.
Audits of infrastructure and software: It’s easy to make promises about providing secure VPN software and a no-logs policy. What is more difficult is submitting to – and paying for – third-party audits that independently verify these claims. The top VPN providers carry out semi-regular audits of their logging policies, which check whether the VPN’s infrastructure has any major vulnerabilities or inadvertently collects data. They also perform software audits, which check their apps for exploits that could compromise your hardware or privacy.
Can I use a free VPN to safely access the dark web?
You can try, but you’re likely to quickly become frustrated. One of the problems with free VPNs is that they have a poor user-to-server ratio, with too many users and not enough servers. The resulting congestion causes sluggish speeds. This is not what you want when also using the Tor network, as the two in conjunction will be painfully slow.
More seriously, free VPNs – particularly those offered as standalone services – sometimes make money by selling your data to third parties. Others have dangerous permission requirements and invasive logs. These aren’t the type of products you should use to keep you safe while exploring the dark web.
How to recognize scams on the dark web
Here are some top tips for recognizing whether a service on the dark web is a scam or legitimate.
Research: Conduct your own research by searching for reviews and feedback from other users. If a service doesn't have any reviews or feedback, you should leave it alone.
Payment: Legitimate services usually offer secure payment methods. Avoid services that ask for payment through untraceable methods, such as crypto, and don't provide credit card details that can personally identify you.
Personal information: Avoid services that ask for information such as your name, address, or social security number. Sharing personal details can expose you to fraud or identity theft.
Communication: Most legitimate services will offer ways of contacting them for support or queries. If they don't, it could be a scam.
Some services will try to entice you with unrealistic deals and prices. If something looks too good to be true, it usually is. The dark web is home to plenty of unlawful activity, so you must ensure you never get involved in something illegal. Be very careful before engaging on forums and marketplaces.
Dark web VPN: FAQs
Is it illegal to open the dark web?
No, accessing the dark web isn’t illegal in most countries. That’s not to say what you find there is legal. There’s plenty of illegal content, products, and services available on the dark web. Anonymity doesn’t make carrying out illegal acts any more permissible, so be cautious about making purchases or downloading content.
What is the Deep Web?
Whether your search engine of choice is Google, Bing, Baidu, Yahoo!, Yandex – or, indeed, a combination of all of them – the fact remains that the content they return is drawn from a relatively small part of the internet. The true internet – that which includes content not indexed by these search engines – is hundreds of times bigger. This is what people refer to when they talk about the Deep Web. The dark web is a small part of the Deep Web. Content in the dark web is designed to be hidden and you’ll need special software to access it. The Tor browser is the most popular tool, though you can also use Freenet, ZeroNet, I2P, and Riffle.
What does the Tor browser do?
The Tor browser uses the Tor network, which was developed in the mid-1990s by US Naval Research Laboratory employees. The browser is open-source software that is free to download and enables anonymous communication online. Users’ internet traffic is sent through an encrypted network of volunteer-maintained relays around the world. This makes it very difficult to trace the original users’ identity. Tor’s anonymity function is used by everyone from human rights workers and journalists through to drug and arms dealers.
That said, it’s worth noting that the Tor browser is not the same as a VPN. It connects you to a network of servers rather than a particular server. This makes it slower than a VPN and also very difficult to try and get a new IP address in a specific country, which is easy to do with a VPN. Because the Tor network is run by volunteers, there’s also little in the way of accountability. Bad actors can compromise nodes, with exit nodes being of particular concern.
Why do I need a VPN for the dark web?
The dark web has many legitimate use purposes and contains legitimate content, including dark web mirrors of popular websites and services such as BBC News and Facebook. Despite this, many people prefer not to advertise to their Internet Service Provider that they are accessing the dark web.
The dark web has a reputation for being a hotbed for cybercrime and illegal marketplaces, and in some countries, the act of accessing the dark web using Tor can be enough to raise suspicions from the authorities. For this reason, many people prefer to use a VPN to encrypt their connection to the Tor network, thereby preventing their ISP from being able to detect that they are accessing the dark web.
Below, we have listed some reasons why it is a good idea to use a VPN to access the dark web:
Improved privacy: People commonly access the dark web via the Tor network, which anonymizes user identities and makes it difficult to track their activities. Using a VPN adds an extra layer of encryption and hides your IP address from the entry node, further protecting your privacy and identity from prying eyes.
Security and anonymity: A VPN creates a secure tunnel between your device and the internet, encrypting your data and making it inaccessible to anyone attempting to intercept it. This prevents your ISP, local network administrators, and anybody else attempting to monitor your traffic from detecting that you are entering the Tor network. This helps to keep your online activities confidential.
Bypassing censorship and geo-restrictions: In some countries, the dark web may be blocked. By using a VPN, you can bypass these restrictions to access the dark web from anywhere in the world, regardless of geographical limitations, government censorship, or local network restrictions.
Protection from malicious actors: The dark web is known for being a hive of criminality. This means that accessing the dark web could potentially expose you to hackers who want to gain access to your devices. By using a VPN, you add an extra layer of security, making it more difficult for cybercriminals and potentially compromised or malicious Tor entry nodes from being able to detect your home IP address.
Do I need a VPN to access the dark web on my phone?
Yes, we recommend that you always use a VPN if you're accessing the dark web on your phone. The dark web is packed with potentially harmful content that puts you at risk, so a VPN is an important tool in keeping your identity and personal information safe. Therefore, it's best to use a VPN no matter the personal device you're using.
Why isn't the dark web shut down?
The dark web is hard to stop because it's difficult to track and monitor activity since much of it is encrypted. Plus, controlling access to the dark web would be a massive undertaking.
Many people consider the dark web an important tool for privacy and freedom of speech, so shutting it down could cause more problems than it fixes.
Did you know
The following information is available to any site you visit:
Your IP Address:
Your Location:
Your Internet Provider:
BLEEPINGCOMPUTER RECOMMENDS:
Using a VPN will hide these details and protect your privacy. We recommend using NordVPN - #1 VPN in our tests. It offers outstanding privacy features and is currently available with three months extra free.
Get NordVPN
Justin Schamotta
Justin Schamotta is an experienced journalist, having spent the last two decades writing for various B2B, consumer and trade publications. He's worked as a columnist, feature writer, editor and researcher. His areas of focus are statistical modeling, machine learning and cybersecurity.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments have been disabled for this article.
Top VPN Deals
NordVPN
Up to 77% OFF + 3 months FREE
Surfshark
87% off 2yr starter plan + 3 months free!
ExpressVPN
Save up to 73% + 4 mo FREE
Contents
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT