How reliable are portable batteries for road trips? My verdict after testing with 3 kids | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Home & Office
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Home & Office
Energy
Power banks and batteries
How reliable are portable batteries for road trips? My verdict after testing with 3 kids
With a capacity of 300Wh, the EcoFlow Trail 300 DC is powerful enough to power multiple devices yet light enough for even the youngest family members to carry.
Written by
Maria Diaz, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 21, 2025 at 3:00 a.m. PT
EcoFlow Trail 300 DC
ZDNET's key takeaways The EcoFlow Trail 300 DC is now available for $159. This compact portable battery can power electronic devices such as laptops, smartphones, tablets, and more.It doesn't have any extra features (there's no light), and there are only five DC ports View now at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.My kids ooh and ahh over portable batteries. They're young, ranging from four to nine, so they're not EcoFlow's or Anker Solix's target audience, yet their eyes light up whenever I unbox a new portable battery to test for work. Why? They love to use them to charge their tablets wherever they are. Also: Traveling soon? 5 simple ways I thwart phone thieves - and you can tooThus far, they've loved the EcoFlow Trail 300 DC so much that they've been fighting me over it. This battery is light enough for even my kids to carry everywhere without fear of dropping it or bumping it against their legs, yet it can charge all three of their tablets several times on a single charge.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS EcoFlow Trail 300 DC The EcoFlow Trail 300 DC is a compact portable battery with DC-only, skipping the AC component altogether.
details
View at Amazon And I get it: I've used the EcoFlow Trail 300 DC to recharge my iPhone, iPad, and MacBook twice on a single charge, and still had about 17% left. My favorite thing about the Trail 300 DC is how compact and lightweight it is. EcoFlow achieved this by bypassing the battery's AC mechanism and making it a DC-only option.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETAC batteries have long been my preferred option to carry along, so the EcoFlow River 3 has been my favorite since its launch last year. I've tried other DC-only portable batteries, like the Anker Solix C300X, but the Trail 300 won me over by being lighter and more compact than the Anker Solix option.Also: Best early Amazon Prime Day EcoFlow deals 2025: My 7 favorites sales ahead of October I've used this little battery around my house and outside. I love that I can carry it around, take it to the car, and back without feeling like I'm lugging around a portable battery. Because of its lightness, the Trail 300 DC is a perfect travel companion. At under six pounds, it is easy to take on your carry-on or even in a backpack. If you enjoy active camping trips, this portable battery can go in your backpack to keep your devices charged without weighing you down or taking up too much space.
Maria Diaz/ZDNETThis 90,000mAh battery can offer up to 140W per port, with a 300W total output, making it strong enough to charge laptops and other large devices, like an electric cooler or a projector. It recharges pretty quickly, too, so you can go from 0 to 100% in just about two hours. If you take it out with you, you can recharge it through USB, solar panels, or a car. Also: This exclusive discount makes the best smart lock I've ever tested that much betterZDNET's buying adviceThe EcoFlow Trail 300 DC is one of the best values for money you can find in a portable battery. It's perfect for camping and small enough to slip into a backpack when you leave your tent. It can also quickly recharge devices during long car rides, in emergency situations, or, if you ask my kids, when you're on the couch with a dead tablet and are too far from an outlet.One of the best things about this portable battery is its affordable price of only $160 (at the time of writing). Such a good price gives competitors a run for their money, though you may have to compromise on some features to get such a good price.While the EcoFlow Trail 300 DC is lightweight and compact, it doesn't have extra features, like a light, and only has five DC ports: two USB-C, two USB-A, and one 12V car port. The Anker Solix C300X, for example, has twice as many USB-C ports. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Are portable solar power banks reliable in 2025? My buying advice after a year of testing
Why I can't live without this magnetic USB-C accessory - and all the devices it can charge
The 3 charging mistakes quietly damaging your tablet - and what to do instead
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use