Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
News
Featured
Latest
Microsoft and Cloudflare disrupt massive RaccoonO365 phishing service
SonicWall warns customers to reset credentials after breach
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
OpenAI's $4 GPT Go plan may expand to more regions
ChatGPT Search is now smarter as OpenAI takes on Google Search
ChatGPT now gives you greater control over GPT-5 Thinking model
Stream and work anywhere with a $75 Android open-box tablet deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityGoogle confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
By Lawrence Abrams
September 15, 2025
04:12 PM
2
Google has confirmed that hackers created a fraudulent account in its Law Enforcement Request System (LERS) platform that law enforcement uses to submit official data requests to the company
"We have identified that a fraudulent account was created in our system for law enforcement requests and have disabled the account," Google told BleepingComputer.
"No requests were made with this fraudulent account, and no data was accessed."
The FBI declined to comment on the threat actor's claims.
This statement comes after a group of threat actors calling itself "Scattered Lapsus$ Hunters" claimed on Telegram to have gained access to both Google's LERS portal and the FBI's eCheck background check system.
The group posted screenshots of their alleged access shortly after announcing on Thursday that they were "going dark."
Screenshot shared by threat actors
The hackers' claims raised concerns as both LERS and the FBI's eCheck system are used by police and intelligence agencies worldwide to submit subpoenas, court orders, and emergency disclosure requests.
Unauthorized access could allow attackers to impersonate law enforcement and gain access to sensitive user data that should normally be protected.
The "Scattered Lapsus$ Hunters" group, which claims to consist of members linked to the Shiny Hunters, Scattered Spider, and Lapsus$ extortion groups, is behind widespread data theft attacks targeting Salesforce data this year.
The threat actors initially utilized social engineering scams to trick employees into connecting Salesforce's Data Loader tool to corporate Salesforce instances, which was then used to steal data and extort companies.
The threat actors later breached Salesloft's GitHub repository and used Trufflehog to scan for secrets exposed in the private source code. This allowed them to find authentication tokens for Salesloft Drift, which were used to conduct further Salesforce data theft attacks.
These attacks have impacted many companies, including Google, Adidas, Qantas, Allianz Life, Cisco, Kering, Louis Vuitton, Dior, Tiffany & Co, Cloudflare, Zscaler, Elastic, Proofpoint, JFrog, Rubrik, Palo Alto Networks, and many more.
Google Threat Intelligence (Mandiant) has been a thorn in the side of these threat actors, being the first to disclose the Salesforce and Salesloft attacks and warning companies to shore up their defenses.
Since then, the threat actors have been taunting the FBI, Google, Mandiant, and security researchers in posts to various Telegram channels.
Late Thursday night, the group posted a lengthy message to a BreachForums-linked domain causing some to believe the threat actors were retiring.
"This is why we have decided that silence will now be our strength," wrote the threat actors.
"You may see our names in new databreach disclosure reports from the tens of other multi billion dollar companies that have yet to disclose a breach, as well as some governmental agencies, including highly secured ones, that does not mean we are still active."
However, cybersecurity researchers who spoke with BleepingComputer believe the group will continue conducting attacks quietly despite their claims of going dark.
Update 9/15/25: Article title updated as some felt it indicated a breach.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Google confirms data breach exposed potential Google Ads customers' infoHackers leak Allianz Life data stolen in Salesforce attacksShinyHunters claims 1.5 billion Salesforce records stolen in Drift hacksFBI warns of UNC6040, UNC6395 hackers stealing Salesforce dataGoogle suffers data breach in ongoing Salesforce data theft attacks
Data Request
Extortion
FBI
Google
Lapsus$
Scattered Spider
ShinyHunters
Lawrence Abrams
Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies.
Previous Article
Next Article
Comments
LowLevelisAllitTakes
-
3 days ago
I wonder what would happen if all these so-called groups joined forces in one massive attack... hmm
ken_smon
-
3 days ago
Who would have thought that giving law enforcement easy access to the system would open it up to others to abuse?
Everyone?
Really?
Yup. Everyone knew it would happen.
I wonder how many other accounts have been created where the creator did not brag about it online?
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft: WMIC will be removed after Windows 11 25H2 upgrade
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT