Sir David Attenborough: Life, Legacy & PBS Documentaries | PBS
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
David Attenborough: Life and Legacy
Jump TO
Meet Sir David Attenborough: Early Life and Career
Jump to
Meet Sir David Attenborough: Early Life and Career
The Storytelling Style That Changed Our World
Sir David Attenborough: Filmography
Sir David Attenborough’s Legacy
Share
David Attenborough: Life and Legacy
Published on August 20, 2025
by
Ashlee Sierra
Share
When you imagine a nature documentary, whose voice do you hear? The answer is likely Sir David Attenborough — biologist, natural historian, writer and iconic TV personality. He’s been our guide through nature for decades. We’re taking a look at how Attenborough’s storytelling changed our understanding of planet Earth. From the earliest days of television to his new era of environmental messaging, he’s long been the voice of the natural world and a teacher to millions.Stream documentaries from Sir David Attenborough on pbs.org and the PBS App. You can find a list of Attenborough's documentaries in the Filmography section below.
Meet Sir David Attenborough: Early Life and CareerAs a boy, Attenborough was already preparing for a life of wonderful discoveries in natural history. He collected fossils in the forest and went home for supper on the grounds of Leicester University, where he was surrounded by an equally academic family. It was hardly shocking when his growing interest in the natural world won him a scholarship to Cambridge — but the path he took from there was more of a surprise.
It all began with a job Attenborough didn’t get. While waiting for an interview for a sound radio position (which never came through), he got a letter about “this new thing called television,” asking if he’d be interested in training. The job paid three times as much as his current salary, so he thought, “I’ll give it a go.”In the 1950s, TV was still new, and the BBC was broadcasting Europe’s first programs. Attenborough had never seen any of it. That’s right: The man who’s become one of TV’s most iconic broadcasters had no idea what he was getting into when he started as a production assistant.Fortunately for everyone who’s fallen in love with his work over the years, Attenborough took to the job. Within a few years, he helped launch “Zoo Quest,” one of the earliest natural history series. Originally, he was just excited to see as much of planet Earth as possible — but when the show’s original host fell ill, Attenborough’s boss put him in front of the camera.And just like that, Sir David Attenborough’s legacy was born.
Support your local PBS station in our mission to inspire, enrich, and educate.
Donate Now
The Storytelling Style That Changed Our World
The producer team behind “Zoo Quest” may not have realized they were helping create a legend, but that’s exactly what happened. As Attenborough worked on the program, he developed a particularly endearing delivery style, all brought together with what his coworkers call “Attenborough preparation.” He talked to himself, ensuring the facts made sense aloud, cutting through complexity and confusion to tell a story that resonates with everyone. He also became known for a unique ability to say his lines perfectly on the first take, even under pressure. Choosing a PathBy the mid-1960s, it was clear that Attenborough was capable of delivering powerful documentary talks like friendly conversations. But when the BBC asked him to use that talent to run a brand-new channel, BBC Two, he knew he had to make a choice. He asked himself, “Are you a television man or are you some kind of scientist?"Ultimately, he created something new that was a little bit of both. He became the voice of the natural world — an expert yet approachable guide to everything from marine secrets to remarkable new species. New StoriesOver the next 30 years, Attenborough embraced technology to reinvent storytelling and capture animals, plants and ecosystems in fascinating ways. His numerous series helped pioneer methods such as:Cutting-edge time-lapse cameras.Super slow motion.Infrared filming.Underwater photography.By 2010, new technology was finally ready to help Attenborough achieve another long-time dream: telling stories about the first animals on Earth, to which “all of us alive today owe our very existence.”Going GreenOver 60 years ago, Attenborough visited the Great Barrier Reef. At the age of 88, he returned in a state-of-the-art submersible, once again highlighting his dedication to storytelling through technology.This was the first time this kind of submersible would dive on the Great Barrier Reef — and also the first opportunity for Attenborough to share a story that was becoming critical to him. Although his previous work didn’t have overt environmental messaging, he saw how much the reef had changed over time and needed to speak out.
“The Great Barrier Reef is in grave danger. The twin perils brought by climate change, an increase in the temperature of the ocean and in its acidity, threaten its very existence. If they continue to rise at the present rate, the reefs will be gone within decades. And that would be a global catastrophe.”
His loyal viewers, who’d come to trust his storytelling style and dedication to the truth, were surprised. But perhaps more importantly, they were inspired. The voice that had sparked their curiosity for so long was now telling them that planet Earth needs their help, and they were ready to take action.A Living LegacyMany scientists, filmmakers and activists say they wouldn’t be where they are today if it hadn’t been for Sir David Attenborough’s unmatched narration. He encouraged generations to learn about nature and how to appreciate and care for it. And it hasn’t gone unnoticed. Attenborough has won every major industry award, including in black and white, color, HD, 3-D and even a BAFTA in 4-K. He was also knighted in 1985 and appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George in 2022. He was even invited to the White House by President Obama to speak on conservation and the health of our living planet.In classic Attenborough style, he’s now using his incredible platform to give back. He was part of the Earthshot Prize Council, which helped identify people making a significant positive impact on the natural world.
Thank you for signing up for our newsletter!
What to watch, exclusive previews, and updates from PBS coming soon to your inbox. Want to subscribe to see all of PBS’ email offerings in one place? Check out our newsletter page.
The PBS 'What to Watch' Weekly Newsletter
What to Watch delivers the best shows and content PBS has to offer each week.
Leave this field blank
Submit
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy
Sir David Attenborough: FilmographyAttenborough’s filmography represents a lifetime of incredible achievements. Here’s a list of some of his most recent and iconic works that you can stream on pbs.org and the PBS App:PBS ProgrammingThe Green PlanetTropical WorldsWater WorldsSeasonal WorldsDesert WorldsHuman Worlds“NOVA: Great Mammoth Mystery”“NATURE: Attenborough's Wonder of Song”“NATURE: Hippos: Africa's River Giants”“NATURE: Attenborough and the Sea Dragon”“NATURE: Raising the Dinosaur Giant”“NATURE: Birds of the Gods”“NATURE: Attenborough’s Life Journey”“NATURE: Museum Alive with David Attenborough”“NATURE: Attenborough and the Jurassic Sea Monster”“Greta Thunberg: A Year to Change the World: Episode 2”“Attenborough and the Giant Elephant”Other Iconic Works by Sir David Attenborough“Life on Earth”“The Life of Birds”“Planet Earth”“Prehistoric Planet”“Our Planet”“Frozen Planet”
Sir David Attenborough’s LegacyIf you’ve ever seen a nature program, even one without Sir David Attenborough, you’ve likely been impacted by his legacy. His boundless determination and unwavering dedication helped shape the entire genre of natural history documentaries. To this day, his uniquely approachable storytelling style still endears him and his furry, feathery and scaly subjects to generations of viewers. Want to thank him? Consider taking his environmental message to heart. The more you learn, the more his legacy impacts the world.
Explore More from PBS
Preventing Plant Extinction Caused by Climate Change
by Aryeh Brusowankin | August 02, 2022
How Plants Adapt to the Rainforest
by Aryeh Brusowankin | August 01, 2022
11 Strangest Plants Only Found in the Rainforest
by Aryeh Brusowankin | August 01, 2022
About the Author
Ashlee Sierra is an Associate Editorial Manager at Brafton. Her work includes creative nonfiction, children's fiction, video game copy, and more. When she's not writing, you can find her daydreaming about backyard chickens and listening to sea shanties.
Read More About
Ashlee
Read All Articles By
Ashlee
PBS Programming
Share
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Trending Topics
Science, Nature & Our World
PBS Programming
Black Culture Connection
Quizzes & Interactives
About PBS
Donate
PBS Foundation
TV Schedule
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sponsorship
Contact Us
© 2025 Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). All Rights Reserved. PBS is a 501(c)(3) not-for-profit organization.