Federal judiciary of the United States - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
Courts
Toggle Courts subsection
1.1
U.S. Supreme Court
1.2
U.S. Courts of Appeals
1.3
U.S. District Courts
1.4
Other tribunals
2
Judges
3
Administration
Toggle Administration subsection
3.1
Accountability
4
Legal procedure
5
History
6
See also
7
References
8
Further reading
9
External links
Toggle the table of contents
Federal judiciary of the United States
21 languages
العربيةБългарскиČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais客家語 / Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Nederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSimple EnglishکوردیSvenskaTürkçe中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikibooksWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Third constitutional branch of government
This article is part of a series on thePolitics of the United States
Federal government
Constitution of the United States
Laws
Treaties
Legislature
United States Congress
House of Representatives
Speaker Mike Johnson (R)
Majority Leader Steve Scalise (R)
Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D)
Congressional districts (list)
Non-voting members
Senate
President JD Vance (R)
President Pro Tempore Chuck Grassley (R)
Majority Leader John Thune (R)
Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D)
Executive
President of the United States
Donald Trump (R)
Vice President of the United States
JD Vance (R)
Cabinet
Federal agencies
Executive Office
Judiciary
Supreme Court of the United States
Chief Justice John Roberts
Thomas
Alito
Sotomayor
Kagan
Gorsuch
Kavanaugh
Barrett
Jackson
Inferior Courts of the United States
Courts of appeals
District courts (list)
Court of International Trade
Alien Terrorist Removal Court
Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review
Other tribunals
Elections
National elections
Presidential elections
Midterm elections
Off-year elections
Primary elections
Presidential primary
Elections by state and territory
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
American Samoa
Guam
Northern Mariana Islands
Puerto Rico
U.S. Virgin Islands
Elections in the District of Columbia
(List of elections)
Political parties
Democratic
Republican
Third parties
Constitution
Green
Libertarian
List of political parties
Political ideologies
Conservatism
Black
Fiscal
Liberal
Neo-
Paleo-
Social
Traditionalist
Trumpism
Liberalism
Classical
Conservative
Modern
Neo-
Third Way
Progressivism
Abolitionism
Constitutionalism
Environmentalism
Feminism
Libertarianism
Anarchism
Capitalist
Individualist
Conservative
Paleo-
Minarchist
Objectivism
Monarchism
Nationalism
Nativism
Populism
Protectionism
Republicanism
Socialism
Political culture
Political polarization
Federalism
State and territorial government
Governors
Legislatures (list)
Courts
Local government
District of Columbia government
District Council
Mayor
Superior Court
Foreign relations
Department of State
Secretary of State: Marco Rubio
Diplomatic missions of / in the United States
Nationality law
Passports
Visa requirements
Visa policy
United States and the United Nations
United Nations Security Council
P5
NATO
G20
G7
Russia
China
India
Japan
Canada
United Kingdom
European Union
Latin America
Arab League
United States portal Politics portalvte
The federal judiciary of the United States is one of the three branches of the federal government of the United States organized under the United States Constitution and laws of the federal government. The U.S. federal judiciary does not include any state court (which includes local courts), which are completely independent from the federal government. The U.S. federal judiciary consists primarily of the U.S. Supreme Court, the U.S. Courts of Appeals, and the U.S. District Courts.[1] It also includes a variety of other lesser federal tribunals.
Article III of the Constitution requires the establishment of a Supreme Court and permits the Congress to create other federal courts and place limitations on their jurisdiction. Article III states that federal judges are appointed by the president with the consent of the Senate to serve until they resign, are impeached and convicted, or die.[2]
Courts[edit]
Further information: List of courts of the United States, Federal tribunals in the United States, and State supreme courts of the United States
Civil procedurein the United States
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
Doctrines of civil procedure
Jurisdiction · Venue
Pleadings · Motions
Service of process
Complaint
Answer
Counterclaim
Crossclaim
Pretrial procedure
Discovery
Interrogatories
Depositions
Request for admissions
Request for production
Resolution without trial
Default judgment
Summary judgment
Voluntary dismissal
Involuntary dismissal
Settlement
Trial
Parties
Jury
Burden of proof
Judgment
Appeal
Mandamus
Certiorari
vte
All federal courts can be readily identified by the words "United States" (abbreviated to "U.S.") in their official names; no state court may include this designation as part of its name.[3] The federal courts are generally divided between trial courts, which hear cases in the first instance, and appellate courts, which review contested decisions made by lower courts.
U.S. Supreme Court[edit]
The Supreme Court of the United States is the court of last resort.[1] It generally hears appeals from the courts of appeals (and sometimes state courts), operating under discretionary review, which means that the Supreme Court can choose which cases to hear, by granting petitions for writs of certiorari.[1] There is therefore generally no basic right of appeal that extends automatically all the way to the Supreme Court.[1] In a few situations (like lawsuits between state governments or some cases between the federal government and a state) it sits as a court of original jurisdiction.[citation needed]
Less than 1% of petitions for certiorari to the Supreme Court are granted for review; the vast majority of the remaining cases are either ignored or denied, effectively making decisions from lower courts final.
U.S. Courts of Appeals[edit]
The United States courts of appeals are the intermediate federal appellate courts.[1] They operate under a system of mandatory review which means they must hear all appeals of right from the lower courts. In some cases, Congress has diverted appellate jurisdiction to specialized courts, such as the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court of Review.[citation needed]
The U.S. Courts of Appeals are divided into 13 circuits: 12 regional circuits, numbered First through Eleventh; the District of Columbia Circuit; and a 13th circuit, the Federal Circuit, which has special jurisdiction over appeals involving specialized subjects such as patents and trademarks. Nearly all appeals are heard by three-judge panels,[1] but on rare occasions, after a three-judge panel decides a case, all the judges in the circuit may rehear the case en banc.[4] Decisions of the U.S. Courts of Appeals can be appealed to the Supreme Court, but the Court of Appeals is the "end of the line" for most federal cases.[1]
Although several other federal courts bear the phrase "Court of Appeals" in their names—such as the U.S. Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims—they are not Article III courts and are not considered to sit in appellate circuits.[citation needed]
U.S. District Courts[edit]
The United States district courts are the general federal trial courts. There are 94 U.S. District Courts, one for each of the 94 federal judicial districts.[1] The U.S. District Courts and federal judicial districts are organized according to U.S. state boundaries. Depending on a state's population, it may be covered by only a single district court, such as the U.S. District Court for the District of Alaska, or by up to four district courts, such as the U.S. District Courts for the Northern, Eastern, Western, and Southern Districts of New York. Most cases "are tried by a single judge, sitting alone".[1]
In certain cases, Congress has diverted original jurisdiction to specialized courts, such as the Court of International Trade, the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the Alien Terrorist Removal Court, or to Article I or Article IV tribunals. The district courts usually have jurisdiction to hear appeals from such tribunals (unless, for example, appeals are to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit).[citation needed]
Other tribunals[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Besides these federal courts, described as Article III courts, there are other adjudicative bodies described as Article I or Article IV courts in reference to the article of the Constitution from which the court's authority stems.
There are a number of Article I courts with appellate jurisdiction over specific subject matter including the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims and the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, as well as Article I courts with appellate jurisdiction over specific geographic areas such as the District of Columbia Court of Appeals. The Article I courts with original jurisdiction over specific subject matter include the bankruptcy courts (for each district court), the Court of Federal Claims, and the Tax Court.
Article IV courts include the High Court of American Samoa and territorial courts such as the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands, District Court of Guam, and District Court of the Virgin Islands. The United States District Court for the District of Puerto Rico was transformed from an Article IV court to an Article III court in 1966, and reform advocates[who?] say the other territorial courts should be changed as well.
Judges[edit]
Further information: List of United States federal judges by longevity of service, List of current United States circuit judges, and List of current United States district judgesThis section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2024) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Federal judges, like Supreme Court justices, are appointed by the president with the consent of the Senate to serve until they resign, are impeached and convicted, retire, or die.
Under Article I of the federal Constitution, Congress also has the power to establish other tribunals, which are usually quite specialized, within the executive branch to assist the president in the execution of his or her powers. Judges who staff them normally serve terms of fixed duration, as do magistrate judges. Judges in Article I tribunals attached to executive branch agencies are referred to as administrative law judges (ALJs) and are generally considered to be part of the executive branch even though they exercise quasi-judicial powers. With limited exceptions, they cannot render final judgments in cases involving life, liberty, and private property rights, but may make preliminary rulings subject to review by an Article III judge.
Administration[edit]
See also: CM/ECF and PACER (law)
The Judicial Conference of the United States is the policymaking body of the U.S. federal courts. The conference is responsible for creating and revising federal procedural rules pursuant to the Rules Enabling Act.
The Administrative Office of the United States Courts is the primary support agency for the U.S. federal courts. It is directly responsible to the Judicial Conference. The AO prepares the judiciary's budget, provides and operates secure court facilities, and provides the clerical and administrative staff essential to the efficient operation of the courts.
The judicial councils are panels within each circuit charged with making "necessary and appropriate orders for the effective and expeditious administration of justice".
The Federal Judicial Center is the primary research and education agency for the U.S. federal courts.
The Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation transfers and consolidates cases in multiple judicial districts that share common factual issues.
The United States Marshals Service is an Executive Branch agency that is responsible for providing protection for the federal judiciary and transporting federal prisoners.
Federal Public Defender agencies provide indigent defense services to clients charged in with federal offenses.
The Supreme Court Police provide security for the Supreme Court building.
Accountability[edit]
See also: Supreme Court of the United States § Criticism and controversies
The 30,000 people who work for the judiciary have unusually low workplace protections.[5] Victims of workplace harassment at the judiciary and their advocates have called for more transparency and accountability, proposing an independent body overseeing working conditions within the judicial system.[5] This extends to the incomplete disclosure of gifts, including luxury trips, for judges throughout the judiciary, which hampers the ability of the public to know whether there are enough conflicts of interest to warrant a recusal.[6]
Suja A. Thomas argues the federal judiciary has taken most of the constitutionally defined power from juries in the United States for itself[7] thanks in part to the influence of legal elites and companies that prefer judges over juries[8] as well as the inability of the jury to defend its power.[9]
Americans have a historic distrust of the courts, according to David Daley, the author of Ratf**ked. Based on a 2024 Gallup poll, only 35 percent of Americans have faith in the courts.[10]
Legal procedure[edit]
Further information: Federal Rules of Civil Procedure
The Supreme Court has interpreted the Constitution as placing some additional restrictions on the federal courts. For example, the doctrines of mootness, ripeness, and standing prohibit district courts from issuing advisory opinions. Other doctrines, such as the abstention doctrine and the Rooker–Feldman doctrine limit the power of lower federal courts to disturb rulings made by state courts. The Erie doctrine requires federal courts to apply substantive state law to claims arising from state law (which may be heard in federal courts under supplemental or diversity jurisdiction). In difficult cases, the federal courts must either guess as to how a court of that state would decide the issue or, if that state accepts certified questions from federal courts when state law is unclear or uncertain, ask an appellate court of that state to decide the issue.[citation needed]
Notably, the only federal court that can issue proclamations of federal law that bind state courts is the Supreme Court itself. Decisions of the lower federal courts, whether on issues of federal law or state law (when the question was not certified to a state court), are persuasive but not binding authority in the states in which those federal courts sit.[11]
Some commentators assert that another limitation upon federal courts is executive nonacquiescence in judicial decisions, where the executive simply refuses to accept them as binding precedent.[12][13] In the context of administration of U.S. internal revenue laws by the Internal Revenue Service, nonacquiescences (published in a series of documents called Actions on Decisions) "generally do not affect the application of stare decisis or the rule of precedent". The IRS "will recognize these principles and generally concede issues accordingly during administrative proceedings". In rare cases, however, the IRS may continue to litigate a legal issue in a given circuit even where the IRS has already lost a case on that issue in that circuit.[14]
History[edit]
Further information: Judicial appointment history for United States federal courts, Article Three of the United States Constitution, and Judicial reform
The Articles of Confederation provided a clear basis for the initial establishment of United States of America judicial authority by Congress prior to the Constitution. This authority, enumerated by Article IX, allowed for the establishment of United States jurisdiction in the trial of piracies and felonies committed on the high seas, final appeals from state court decisions in all cases of captures of enemy ships, last resort for resolution of disputes between two or more states (including disputes over borders and jurisdiction), and final determination of controversies between private parties arising from conflicting land grants issued by two or more states prior to settlement of which state actually has jurisdiction over the territory. The Court of Appeals in Cases of Capture was the first United States court established by the United States. Additional United States courts were established to adjudicate border disputes between the states of Connecticut and Pennsylvania, New York and Massachusetts, Georgia and South Carolina. A United States court was also established for the Northwest Territory.[citation needed]
When the Constitution came into force in 1789, Congress gained the authority to establish the federal judicial system as a whole. Only the Supreme Court was established by the Constitution itself. The Judiciary Act of 1789 created the first inferior (i.e., lower) federal courts established pursuant to the Constitution and provided for the first Article III judges.[citation needed]
Virtually all U.S. law schools offer an elective course that focuses specifically on the powers and limitations of U.S. federal courts, with coverage of topics such as justiciability, abstention doctrines, the abrogation doctrine, and habeas corpus.[15]
See also[edit]
Uniformity and jurisdiction in U.S. federal court tax decisions
References[edit]
^ a b c d e f g h i Friedman, Lawrence M.; Hayden, Grant (2017). American Law: An Introduction. Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 60. ISBN 9780190460594. Retrieved December 3, 2023.
^ "Article III". Legal Information Institute. Archived from the original on September 27, 2018. Retrieved October 9, 2021.
^ Walston-Dunham, Beth (2012). Introduction to Law (6th ed.). Clifton Park: Delmar. p. 36. ISBN 9781133707981. Archived from the original on March 29, 2023. Retrieved November 26, 2020.
^ United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
^ a b Johnson, Carrie (April 30, 2024). "Victims of harassment by federal judges often find the judiciary is above the law". NPR.
^ Dreisbach, Tom; Johnson, Carrie (May 1, 2024). "When judges get free trips to luxury resorts, disclosure is spotty". NPR.
^ Thomas, Suja A. (2016). The missing American jury: restoring the fundamental constitutional role of the criminal, civil, and grand juries. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press. pp. 75–77, 109. ISBN 978-1-316-61803-5. The Supreme Court's differing treatment of the traditional actors and the jury and the deference to traditional actors has contributed to the jury's decline…The Court has failed to acknowledge any specific authority in the jury or any necessity to guard that authority...Moreover it has ultimately held constitutional almost every modern procedure before and after the a jury deliberation that has eliminated or reduced jury authority. (75-77)
^ Thomas, Suja A. (2016). The missing American jury: restoring the fundamental constitutional role of the criminal, civil, and grand juries. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press. p. 105. ISBN 978-1-107-05565-0. as the jury continued to be more diverse in gender and race, the jury was less desirable to judges and corporations…this shift has occurred, particularly in the 1930s…The Supreme Court likely has been influenced by legal elites as well as by corporations to reduce jury authority over time.
^ Thomas, Suja A. (2016). The missing American jury: restoring the fundamental constitutional role of the criminal, civil, and grand juries. New York, NY: Cambridge University Press. pp. 92–93. ISBN 978-1-316-61803-5.
^ Daley, David. "Only 35% of Americans trust the US judicial system. This is catastrophic".
^ Frost, Amanda (2015). "Inferiority Complex: Should State Courts Follow Lower Federal Court Precedent on the Meaning of Federal Law?" (PDF). Vanderbilt Law Review. 68 (1): 53–103.
^ Gregory Sisk, Litigation with the Federal Government (Philadelphia: American Law Institute, 2006), 418-425.
^ Robert J. Hume, How Courts Impact Federal Administrative Behavior (New York: Routledge, 2009), 92-106.
^ Mitchell Rogovin and Donald L. Korb, "The Four R's Revisited: Regulations, Rulings, Reliance, and Retroactivity in the 21st Century: A View From Within", 46 Duquesne Law Review 323, 366-367 (2008).
^ Michael L. Wells, A Litigation-Oriented Approach to Teaching Federal Courts, Archived 2014-08-14 at the Wayback Machine, 53 St. Louis U. L.J. 857 (2009).
Further reading[edit]
Federal Court Concepts, Georgia Tech
Creating the Federal Judicial System
Debates on the Federal Judiciary: A Documentary History
History of the Courts of the Federal Judiciary
CourtWEB, Online Federal Court Opinions Information System Archived 2010-03-27 at the Wayback Machine
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Federal judiciary of the United States.
Official website
vteU.S. Supreme Court Article III case lawFederalismAbstention
Railroad Commission v. Pullman Co. (1941)
Burford v. Sun Oil Co. (1943)
Louisiana Power & Light Co. v. City of Thibodaux (1959)
United Gas Pipe Line Co. v. Ideal Cement Co. (1962)
England v. Louisiana State Board of Medical Examiners (1964)
Younger v. Harris (1971)
Colorado River Water Conservation District v. United States (1976)
Moses H. Cone Memorial Hospital v. Mercury Construction Corp. (1983)
Adequate andindependent state ground
Murdock v. City of Memphis (1875)
Seneca Nation of Indians v. Christy (1896)
Fox Film Corp. v. Muller (1935)
Harrison v. NAACP (1959)
Michigan v. Long (1983)
Federal common law
United States v. Hudson (1812)
Swift v. Tyson (1842)
Black & White Taxicab & Transfer Co. v. Brown & Yellow Taxicab & Transfer Co. (1928)
Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins (1938)
Hinderlider v. La Plata River & Cherry Creek Ditch Co. (1938)
Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States (1943)
Rooker–Feldman doctrine
Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co. (1923)
District of Columbia Court of Appeals v. Feldman (1983)
Exxon Mobil Corp. v. Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (2005)
Sovereign immunity andpresidential immunity
Little v. Barreme (1804)
The Schooner Exchange v. M'Faddon (1812)
Mississippi v. Johnson (1867)
United States v. Lee (1882)
Schillinger v. United States (1894)
Feres v. United States (1950)
United States v. Wunderlich (1951)
Banco Nacional de Cuba v. Sabbatino (1964)
Santa Clara Pueblo v. Martinez (1978)
Nixon v. Fitzgerald (1982)
United States v. Stanley (1987)
Oklahoma Tax Commission v. Citizen Band, Potawatomi Indian Tribe of Oklahoma (1991)
Saudi Arabia v. Nelson (1993)
Clinton v. Jones (1997)
Kiowa Tribe of Oklahoma v. Manufacturing Technologies, Inc. (1998)
College Savings Bank v. Florida Prepaid Postsecondary Education Expense Board (1999)
C & L Enterprises, Inc. v. Citizen Band, Potawatomi Indian Tribe of Oklahoma (2001)
Inyo County v. Paiute-Shoshone Indians of the Bishop Community (2003)
United States v. White Mountain Apache Tribe (2003)
Republic of Austria v. Altmann (2004)
City of Sherrill v. Oneida Indian Nation of New York (2005)
Dolan v. United States Postal Service (2006)
Permanent Mission of India v. City of New York (2007)
Ali v. Federal Bureau of Prisons (2008)
Samantar v. Yousuf (2010)
United States v. Bormes (2012)
Republic of Argentina v. NML Capital, Ltd. (2014)
OBB Personenverkehr AG v. Sachs (2015)
Jam v. International Finance Corp. (2019)
Republic of Sudan v. Harrison (2019)
Opati v. Republic of Sudan (2020)
Trump v. United States (2024)
Jurisdiction
Chisholm v. Georgia (1793)
Marbury v. Madison (1803)
United States v. More (1805)
Martin v. Hunter's Lessee (1816)
American Insurance Co. v. 356 Bales of Cotton (1828)
Sheldon v. Sill (1850)
United States v. Jackalow (1862)
Ex parte Vallandigham (1864)
Ex parte McCardle (1869)
United States v. Klein (1871)
City of St. Louis v. Myers (1885)
Barrett v. United States (1898)
Burton v. United States I (1905)
Burton v. United States II (1906)
Louisville & Nashville Railroad Co. v. Mottley (1908)
Muskrat v. United States (1911)
American Well Works Co. v. Layne & Bowler Co. (1916)
Smith v. Kansas City Title & Trust Co. (1921)
Hartsville Oil Mill v. United States (1926)
Wisconsin v. Illinois (1929)
Crowell v. Benson (1932)
Colegrove v. Green (1946)
Glidden Co. v. Zdanok (1962)
Oneida Indian Nation of New York v. County of Oneida (1974)
Arizona v. New Mexico (1976)
Mt. Healthy City School District Board of Education v. Doyle (1977)
Northern Pipeline Construction Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co. (1982)
Thomas v. Union Carbide (1985)
Commodity Futures Trading Commission v. Schor (1986)
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Thompson (1986)
Plaut v. Spendthrift Farm, Inc. (1995)
JPMorgan Chase Bank v. Traffic Stream (BVI) Infrastructure Ltd. (2002)
Grable & Sons Metal Products, Inc. v. Darue Engineering & Mfg. (2005)
Bowles v. Russell (2007)
Patchak v. Zinke (2018)
JusticiabilityMootness
DeFunis v. Odegaard (1974)
Campbell-Ewald Co. v. Gomez (2016)
Uzuegbunam v. Preczewski (2021)
Acheson Hotels, LLC v. Laufer (2023)
Political question
Baker v. Carr (1962)
Goldwater v. Carter (1979)
Nixon v. United States (1993)
Ripeness
Poe v. Ullman (1961)
Toilet Goods Ass'n, Inc. v. Gardner (1967)
Laird v. Tatum (1972)
Williamson County Regional Planning Commission v. Hamilton Bank of Johnson City (1985)
Trump v. New York (2020)
Standing
Bailiff v. Tipping (1805)
Fairchild v. Hughes (1922)
Massachusetts v. Mellon (1923)
Ex parte Levitt (1937)
Altvater v. Freeman (1943)
Flast v. Cohen (1968)
Sierra Club v. Morton (1972)
United States v. Students Challenging Regulatory Agency Procedures (1973)
Schlesinger v. Reservists Committee to Stop the War (1974)
Warth v. Seldin (1975)
Illinois Brick Co. v. Illinois (1977)
Pfizer Inc. v. Government of India (1978)
Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church & State (1982)
City of Los Angeles v. Lyons (1983)
Allen v. Wright (1984)
Diamond v. Charles (1986)
Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife (1992)
Raines v. Byrd (1997)
FEC v. Akins (1998)
Friends of the Earth, Inc. v. Laidlaw Environmental Services, Inc. (2000)
DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno (2006)
Hein v. Freedom From Religion Foundation (2007)
Massachusetts v. Environmental Protection Agency (2007)
Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization v. Winn (2011)
Bond v. United States (2011)
Clapper v. Amnesty International USA (2013)
Spokeo, Inc. v. Robins (2016)
Texas v. Pennsylvania (2020)
Trump v. New York (2020)
Uzuegbunam v. Preczewski (2021)
TransUnion LLC v. Ramirez (2021)
California v. Texas (2021)
FDA v. Alliance for Hippocratic Medicine (2024)
Murthy v. Missouri (2024)
Others
Hayburn's Case (1792)
County of Oneida v. Oneida Indian Nation of New York State (1985)
Davis v. Bandemer (1986)
Vieth v. Jubelirer (2004)
Rucho v. Common Cause / Benisek v. Lamone (2019)
Treason
Ex parte Bollman (1807)
United States v. Burr (1807)
Cramer v. United States (1945)
Others
Stuart v. Laird (1803)
Osborn v. Bank of the United States (1824)
Forrester v. White (1988)
Mistretta v. United States (1989)
Peretz v. United States (1991)
United States v. Hatter (2001)
Stern v. Marshall (2011)
Bank Markazi v. Peterson (2016)
vteLaw of the United StatesConstitutional lawand legislation
Federalism
Separation of powers
Civil rights
Act of Congress
Bill (United States Congress)
United States Code
Courts of theUnited StatesFederal courts
Supreme
Appeals
District (list)
Bankruptcy
Claims
International Trade
Tax
State courts
State supreme
Education
Pre-law
Law School Admission Test
Law school
Reading law
Bar exam
Admission to the bar
Master of Laws
Doctor of Juridical Science
Types of law
Abortion
Administrative law
Antitrust
Child custody
Child sexual abuse
Civil procedure
Conflict of laws
Constitutional
Contract
Copyright
Property
Corporate
Criminal
Procedure
Energy
Environmental
Gun
Human rights
Juvenile
Labor
Martial
Obscenity
Patent
Privacy
State
Financial
Race
Sports
State
Tort
Defamation
Trademark
Trust
Water
Groundwater
vteUnited States HistoryBy period
1776–1789
1789–1815
1815–1849
1849–1865
1865–1917
1917–1945
1945–1964
1964–1980
1980–1991
1991–2016
2016–present
By event
Pre-colonial era
Colonial era
Stamp Act Congress
Thirteen Colonies
Continental Congress
Continental Association
United Colonies
military history
Founding Fathers
Halifax Resolves
Lee Resolution
Declaration of Independence
American Revolution
War
Treaty of Paris
Articles of Confederation
Perpetual Union
Confederation period
American frontier
Constitution
drafting and ratification
Bill of Rights
Federalist Era
War of 1812
Territorial evolution
Mexican–American War
Civil War
Reconstruction era
Indian Wars
Native genocide
Gilded Age
Progressive Era
Women's suffrage
Civil rights movement
1865–1896
1896–1954
1954–1968
Spanish–American War
Imperialism
World War I
Roaring Twenties
Great Depression
World War II
home front
American Century
Cold War
Korean War
Space Race
Feminist Movement
LGBTQ Movement
Vietnam War
Post-Cold War (1991–2016)
September 11 attacks
War on Terror
War in Afghanistan
Iraq War
Great Recession
COVID-19 pandemic
By topic
Outline of U.S. history
Demographic
Discoveries
Economic
Inventions
Military
Postal
Technological and industrial
Geography
Territory
Contiguous United States
counties
federal district
federal enclaves
Indian reservations
insular zones
minor outlying islands
populated places
states
Earthquakes
Extreme points
Islands
Mountains
peaks
ranges
Appalachian
Rocky
Sierra Nevada
National Park Service
National Parks
Regions
East Coast
West Coast
Great Plains
Gulf
Mid-Atlantic
Midwestern
New England
Pacific
Central
Eastern
Northern
Northeastern
Northwestern
Southern
Southeastern
Southwestern
Western
Longest rivers
Arkansas
Colorado
Columbia
Mississippi
Missouri
Red (South)
Rio Grande
Yukon
Time
Water supply and sanitation
World Heritage Sites
PoliticsFederalExecutive
President of the United States
powers
Executive Office
Vice President
Cabinet
Executive departments
Independent agencies
Intelligence Community
Director of National Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
National Security Agency
National Reconnaissance Office
Law enforcement
ATF
CBP
Diplomatic Security
DEA
FBI
ICE
Marshals
Secret Service
TSA
Inspector generals
Civil service
Public policy
Legislative
House of Representatives
current members
Speaker
Senate
current members
President pro tempore
President
Capitol Police
Library of Congress
Congressional Budget Office
Government Accountability Office
Government Publishing Office
Judicial
Supreme Court
Chief Justice
Associate Justices
list
Courts of appeals
list of judges
District courts/Territorial courts
list of courts
list of judges
Other tribunals
U.S. attorney
Law
Bill of Rights
civil liberties
Code of Federal Regulations
Constitution
federalism
preemption
separation of powers
civil rights
United States Code
Uniformed
Armed Forces
Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Space Force
Coast Guard
National Guard
NOAA Corps
Public Health Service Corps
State,Federal District,and TerritorialExecutive
Governor
list
Lieutenant governor
list
Secretary of state
Attorney general
Treasurer
Auditor/Comptroller
Agriculture commissioner
Insurance commissioner
Public utilities commission
State police
list
Legislative
List of legislatures
List of legislators
Judicial
Supreme courts
Chief justices
District attorney
list
Law
State constitutions
Statutory codes
Uniform act
Comparison of governments
Tribal
Tribal sovereignty
Native American recognition in the United States
Federally recognized tribes
Federally recognized Alaska Native tribes
State-recognized tribes
Indian reservation
list
Hawaiian home land
LocalCounty
List of counties and county equivalents
County executive
Sheriff
Clerk
Cities
Consolidated city-county
Independent city
Coterminous municipality
Charter
Mayor–council government
Council–manager government
City commission government
Mayor
City manager
City council
Minor divisions
Township
Town meeting
Special district
School district
list
Corruption
Democratic backsliding
Elections
Electoral College
Red states and blue states
Foreign relations
foreign policy
Imperial presidency
Ideologies
Anti-Americanism
exceptionalism
nationalism
Parties
Democratic
Republican
Third parties
Scandals
Economy
By sector
Agriculture
Banking
Communications
Companies
Energy
Insurance
Manufacturing
Mining
Science and technology
Tourism
Trade
by state
Currency
Exports
Federal budget
Greenhouse gas emissions by the United States
Federal Reserve System
Financial position
Labor unions
Public debt
Social welfare programs
Taxation
Unemployment
Wall Street
Transport
Aviation
Driving
Public transportation
Rail transportation
Transportation policy
Transportation safety
Trucking industry
SocietyCulture
Americana
Architecture
Cinema
Crime
Cuisine
Dance
Demographics
Economic issues
affluence
eviction
homeownership
household income
income inequality
middle class
personal income
poverty
standard of living
wealth
working class
Education
attainment
literacy
Family
Fashion
Flag
list
Folklore
Holidays
Federal holidays
Homelessness
Housing
Human rights
Languages
American English
Indigenous languages
ASL
Literature
Media
journalism
internet
newspapers
radio
television
Music
Names
National anthem
National symbols
Columbia
Mount Rushmore
Statue of Liberty
Uncle Sam
People
Philosophy
Political ideologies
Race
Religion
Sexuality
Social class
Society
Sports
history
Theater
Transportation
Video games
Visual art
Social class
Affluence
American Dream
Educational attainment
Homelessness
Homeownership
Household income
Income inequality
Middle class
Personal income
Poverty
Standard of living
Health
Aging
Healthcare
Abortion
Birth control
Prenatal care
Hospice care
Immigrant health care
Rationing
Health care finance
Health insurance costs
Health care prices
Prescription drug prices
Disability
Health insurance
Food safety
Physician shortage
Poverty and health
Race and health
Obesity
Medical deserts
Women's reproductive health
Life expectancy
Issues
Capital punishment
Crime
incarceration
Criticism of government
Discrimination
affirmative action
antisemitism
intersex rights
Islamophobia
LGBTQ rights
racism
Native American
African American
Energy policy
Environmental issues
Environmental movement
Climate change
Gun politics
Mass shootings
Hunger
Smoking
Human rights
Immigration
illegal
National security
Terrorism
Opioid epidemic
Separation of church and state
Xenophobia
OutlineIndex
Category
vteJudiciaries of North AmericaSovereign states
Antigua and Barbuda
Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
Canada
Costa Rica
Cuba
Dominica
Dominican Republic
El Salvador
Grenada
Guatemala
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Trinidad and Tobago
United States
Dependencies andother territories
Anguilla
Aruba
Bermuda
Bonaire
British Virgin Islands
Cayman Islands
Curaçao
Greenland
Guadeloupe
Martinique
Montserrat
Puerto Rico
Saint Barthélemy
Saint Martin
Saint Pierre and Miquelon
Saba
Sint Eustatius
Sint Maarten
Turks and Caicos Islands
United States Virgin Islands
vteJudiciaries of the United StatesStates
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode Island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Federal districtWashington, D.C.Territories
American Samoa
Guam
Northern Mariana Islands
Puerto Rico
U.S. Virgin Islands
Authority control databases InternationalISNINationalUnited StatesIsraelOtherYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Federal_judiciary_of_the_United_States&oldid=1308687097"
Categories: Federal judiciary of the United StatesUnited States federal courtsCourts in the United StatesHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with short descriptionShort description matches WikidataUse mdy dates from November 2023Use American English from November 2023All Wikipedia articles written in American EnglishAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2024Articles needing additional references from June 2024All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2024Commons category link is defined as the pagenameOfficial website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
This page was last edited on 30 August 2025, at 23:28 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
Federal judiciary of the United States
21 languages
Add topic