GitHub - bitnami/containers: Bitnami container images
Skip to content
Navigation Menu
Toggle navigation
Sign in
Appearance settings
Platform
GitHub Copilot
Write better code with AI
GitHub Spark
New
Build and deploy intelligent apps
GitHub Models
New
Manage and compare prompts
GitHub Advanced Security
Find and fix vulnerabilities
Actions
Automate any workflow
Codespaces
Instant dev environments
Issues
Plan and track work
Code Review
Manage code changes
Discussions
Collaborate outside of code
Code Search
Find more, search less
Explore
Why GitHub
Documentation
GitHub Skills
Blog
Integrations
GitHub Marketplace
MCP Registry
View all features
Solutions
By company size
Enterprises
Small and medium teams
Startups
Nonprofits
By use case
DevSecOps
DevOps
CI/CD
View all use cases
By industry
Healthcare
Financial services
Manufacturing
Government
View all industries
View all solutions
Resources
Topics
AI
DevOps
Security
Software Development
View all
Explore
Learning Pathways
Events & Webinars
Ebooks & Whitepapers
Customer Stories
Partners
Executive Insights
Open Source
GitHub Sponsors
Fund open source developers
The ReadME Project
GitHub community articles
Repositories
Topics
Trending
Collections
Enterprise
Enterprise platform
AI-powered developer platform
Available add-ons
GitHub Advanced Security
Enterprise-grade security features
Copilot for business
Enterprise-grade AI features
Premium Support
Enterprise-grade 24/7 support
Pricing
Search or jump to...
Search code, repositories, users, issues, pull requests...
Search
Clear
Search syntax tips
Provide feedback
We read every piece of feedback, and take your input very seriously.
Include my email address so I can be contacted
Cancel
Submit feedback
Saved searches
Use saved searches to filter your results more quickly
Name
Query
To see all available qualifiers, see our documentation.
Cancel
Create saved search
Sign in
Sign up
Appearance settings
Resetting focus
You signed in with another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You signed out in another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
You switched accounts on another tab or window. Reload to refresh your session.
Dismiss alert
bitnami
/
containers
Public
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Fork
6.2k
Star
4.1k
Bitnami container images
bitnami.com
License
View license
4.1k
stars
6.2k
forks
Branches
Tags
Activity
Star
Notifications
You must be signed in to change notification settings
Code
Issues
55
Pull requests
3
Actions
Projects
0
Security
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Insights
Additional navigation options
Code
Issues
Pull requests
Actions
Projects
Security
Insights
bitnami/containers
mainBranchesTagsGo to fileCodeOpen more actions menuFolders and filesNameNameLast commit messageLast commit dateLatest commit History480,117 Commits.github.github  .vib.vib  bitnamibitnami  .licenserc.yaml.licenserc.yaml  .markdownlint.json.markdownlint.json  .markdownlintignore.markdownlintignore  CODE_OF_CONDUCT.mdCODE_OF_CONDUCT.md  CONTRIBUTING.mdCONTRIBUTING.md  LICENSE.mdLICENSE.md  README.mdREADME.md  SECURITY.mdSECURITY.md  TESTING.mdTESTING.md  View all filesRepository files navigationREADMECode of conductContributingLicenseSecurity
The Bitnami Containers Library
Popular applications, provided by Bitnami, containerized and ready to launch.
⚠️ Important Notice: Upcoming changes to the Bitnami Catalog
Beginning August 28th, 2025, Bitnami will evolve its public catalog to offer a curated set of hardened, security-focused images under the new Bitnami Secure Images initiative. As part of this transition:
Granting community users access for the first time to security-optimized versions of popular container images.
Bitnami will begin deprecating support for non-hardened, Debian-based software images in its free tier and will gradually remove non-latest tags from the public catalog. As a result, community users will have access to a reduced number of hardened images. These images are published only under the “latest” tag and are intended for development purposes
Starting August 28th, over two weeks, all existing container images, including older or versioned tags (e.g., 2.50.0, 10.6), will be migrated from the public catalog (docker.io/bitnami) to the “Bitnami Legacy” repository (docker.io/bitnamilegacy), where they will no longer receive updates.
For production workloads and long-term support, users are encouraged to adopt Bitnami Secure Images, which include hardened containers, smaller attack surfaces, CVE transparency (via VEX/KEV), SBOMs, and enterprise support.
These changes aim to improve the security posture of all Bitnami users by promoting best practices for software supply chain integrity and up-to-date deployments. For more details, visit the Bitnami Secure Images announcement.
Why use Bitnami Secure Images?
Bitnami Secure Images and Helm charts are built to make open source more secure and enterprise ready.
Triage security vulnerabilities faster, with transparency into CVE risks using industry standard Vulnerability Exploitability Exchange (VEX), KEV, and EPSS scores.
Our hardened images use a minimal OS (Photon Linux), which reduces the attack surface while maintaining extensibility through the use of an industry standard package format.
Stay more secure and compliant with continuously built images updated within hours of upstream patches.
Bitnami containers, virtual machines and cloud images use the same components and configuration approach - making it easy to switch between formats based on your project needs.
Hardened images come with attestation signatures (Notation), SBOMs, virus scan reports and other metadata produced in an SLSA-3 compliant software factory.
Only a subset of BSI applications are available for free. Looking to access the entire catalog of applications as well as enterprise support? Try the commercial edition of Bitnami Secure Images today.
Get an image
The recommended way to get any of the Bitnami Images is to pull the prebuilt image from the Docker Hub Registry.
docker pull bitnami/APP
To use a specific version, you can pull a versioned tag.
docker pull bitnami/APP:[TAG]
If you wish, you can also build the image yourself by cloning the repository, changing to the directory containing the Dockerfile, and executing the docker build command.
git clone https://github.com/bitnami/containers.git
cd bitnami/APP/VERSION/OPERATING-SYSTEM
docker build -t bitnami/APP .
TipRemember to replace the APP, VERSION, and OPERATING-SYSTEM placeholders in the example command above with the correct values.
Run the application using Docker Compose
The main folder of each application contains a functional docker-compose.yml file. Run the application using it as shown below:
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitnami/containers/main/bitnami/APP/docker-compose.yml > docker-compose.yml
docker-compose up -d
TipRemember to replace the APP placeholder in the example command above with the correct value.
Vulnerability scan in Bitnami container images
As part of the release process, the Bitnami container images are analyzed for vulnerabilities. At this moment, we are using two different tools:
Trivy
Grype
This scanning process is triggered via a GH action for every PR affecting the source code of the containers, regardless of its nature or origin.
Retention policy
Deprecated assets will be retained in the container registry (Bitnami DockerHub org) without changes for, at least, 6 months after the deprecation.
After that period, all the images will be moved to a new "archived" repository. For instance, once deprecated an asset named foo whose container repository was bitnami/foo, all the images will be moved to bitnami/foo-archived where they will remain indefinitely.
Special images, like bitnami/bitnami-shell or bitnami/sealed-secrets, which are extensively used in Helm charts, will have an extended coexistence period of 1 year.
Contributing
We'd love for you to contribute to those container images. You can request new features by creating an issue, or submit a pull request with your contribution.
License
Copyright © 2025 Broadcom. The term "Broadcom" refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.
About
Bitnami container images
bitnami.com
Topics
docker
vmware
containers
docker-image
bitnami
non-root
Resources
Readme
License
View license
Code of conduct
Code of conduct
Contributing
Contributing
Security policy
Security policy
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Activity
Custom properties
Stars
4.1k
stars
Watchers
47
watching
Forks
6.2k
forks
Report repository
Uh oh!
There was an error while loading. Please reload this page.
Contributors
342
+ 328 contributors
Languages
Shell
94.1%
Dockerfile
5.2%
Other
0.7%
Footer
© 2025 GitHub, Inc.
Footer navigation
Terms
Privacy
Security
Status
Community
Docs
Contact
Manage cookies
Do not share my personal information
You can’t perform that action at this time.