Talent Recruitment of Postdoctoral Fellow, SMART
job with Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation | 12840105
Skip to main content
Skip to main menu
Skip to user menu
Log In
or
Create Account
Recruiters:
Post a Job
Home
Find a job
Job alerts
Search employers
Upload your CV
Find an event
Useful Info
Training(This link will open in a new window)
Careers Advice(This link will open in a new window)
More Results
Talent Recruitment of Postdoctoral Fellow, SMART
Employer
Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation
Location
Shenzhen, Guangdong (CN)
Salary
Salary for all positions is highly competitive at an international standard.
Closing date
2 Dec 2025
View more categoriesView less categories
Discipline
Biomedicine,
Health Science,
Life Science
Job Type
Postdoctoral
Employment - Hours
Full time
Duration
Permanent
Qualification
PhD
Sector
Academia
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Send job
Job Details
Company
Job Details
In 2024, the Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation (SMART) was approved as a sub-station of the Shenzhen Postdoctoral Enterprise Workstation. We are now recruiting postdoctoral researchers globally and sincerely welcome outstanding young talented individuals to join SMART. Areas of interest include but are not limited to Neuroscience, Immunology, Bio-interaction (Cryo-ET), Aging, and Rare Diseases.
This faculty opening will be valid for an extensive period of time. For more information about SMART&PI, please visit our official website：https://smart.org.cn/.
Qualifications
A PhD degree in a relevant field from a leading domestic or international university or research institution (with graduation within the last three years), or imminent completion of PhD degree with the dissertation defense passed.
Demonstrated ability to conduct independent scientific research.
Strong proficiency in English communication, reading, and writing.
Excellent academic ethics and integrity, effective communication skills, team spirit, strong motivation, and a keen interest in scientific research.
Publication of high-quality research papers as the first author or corresponding author.
Responsibilities
Conduct independent research under the guidance of the principal investigator (PI) of the research group.
Independently or collaboratively assist the PI in applying for various research funding programs.
Assist in mentoring doctoral students and research assistants within the research group.
Support laboratory management and operational tasks.
Benefits
Qualified candidates will receive an internationally competitive salary, lab space, office space. State-of-the-art core facilities, translational platforms, and interdisciplinary academic environment are also available at SMART. Assistance will be provided in applying for national and regional talent awards and subsidies. Other benefits provided by SMART include an insurance and housing fund, annual physical examinations, paid annual leave, and your children's education. For international staff, we also help with applying for a work permit, residence permit and foreign tax preference.
Application Guide
Interested applicants are requested to send the required application documents in a single PDF file by email to: postdoc@smart.org.cn. The email subject should be "Applied Position + Full Name + Research Direction." Upon receipt of your materials, we will contact you promptly.
Application Materials:
Cover letter;
Curriculum vitae;
Two reference letters (sent directly to us by the referees).
If you have published papers as the first author or corresponding author, please provide the full-text PDFs of the papers.
About Us
The Shenzhen Medical Academy of Research and Translation (SMART) is an institute blazing new trails for future medical sciences.
SMART is on a crucial mission to explore new mechanisms that best stimulate original innovations while cultivating a community of top talents who are ready for pressing challenges. At SMART, translating science and technology into health for all is at the center of what we do. Utilizing a whole-process approach, we continuously push the limits of biomedical research in order to bridge the gaps in basic, clinical, and translational fields.
With our roots in Shenzhen, we at SMART are bold in dreaming big - to build the City of Shenzhen into an intellectual destination for talent and a global powerhouse for biomedical sciences.
Company
Learn more about this company
Visit this company’s hub to learn about their values, culture, and latest jobs.
Visit employer hub
Share this job
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Apply now
Apply for Talent Recruitment of Postdoctoral Fellow, SMART
Already uploaded your CV? Sign in to apply instantlyFields marked with an asterisk (*) are required
First name
required
Last name
required
What is your email address?
required
Your CV
required
Your file must be a .doc, .pdf, .docx, or .rtf. No larger than 1MB
Drag and drop
Choose a file
Selected file:
Remove file
Add a cover message
required
Email me similar jobs when they become available
Your communication preferences
I'd like to receive career advice, updates and information from Nature Careers and Nature Portfolio, part of Springer Nature Limited.
I'd like to receive emails from carefully chosen third party providers.
When you apply for a job we will send your application to the named employer, who may contact you. By applying for a job listed on Nature Careers you agree to our terms and conditions and privacy policy. You should never be required to provide bank account details. If you are, please contact us. All emails will contain a link in the footer to enable you to unsubscribe at any time.
Send application
Send job
Apply now
Save jobClick to add the job to your shortlist
You need to sign in or create an account to save a job.
Learn more about this company
Visit this company’s hub to learn about their values, culture, and latest jobs.
Visit employer hub
Sign in to create job alerts
Sign in or create an account to start creating job alerts and receive personalised job recommendations straight to your inbox.
Create alert
Similar jobs
Academic Positions Available Shenzhen University of Advanced Technology
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
Faculty and Research Positions, Postdoctoral Recruitment
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China
Talent Recruitment: Faculty & Postdoc Positions at IIINN, Fudan University
Shanghai, China
Back To Top
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
Nature Careers
About Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Employers
Newsletter
Nature Resources
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Index
Working Scientist Podcast
Nature Career Guides
Nature Conferences
Nature Portfolio webcasts
Manage cookie preferences
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
We chat
© 2022 - 2025 Springer Nature Limited Powered by Madgex Job Board Software