Huawei reveals long-range Ascend chip roadmap — three-year plan includes ambitious provision for in-house HBM with up to 1.6 TB/s bandwidth | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Artificial Intelligence
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
Artificial Intelligence
China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks
Artificial Intelligence
Huawei releases new tool to get Chinese firms around crushing HBM export blacklist
GPUs
Alibaba’s AI chip goes head-to-head with Nvidia H20 in state-backed benchmark demo
Artificial Intelligence
DeepSeek reportedly urged by Chinese authorities to train new model on Huawei hardware, met with multiple failures
Artificial Intelligence
Huawei to open-source its UB-Mesh data center-scale interconnect soon, details technical aspects
Tech Industry
SK Hynix projects HBM market to expand 30% annually through 2030
GPUs
Nvidia seeks extra 300,000 H20 GPUs to meet China's surging AI demand
GPUs
Nvidia could be readying Blackwell B30A accelerator for the Chinese market
RAM
YMTC and CXMT team up to accelerate Chinese domestic HBM production
Artificial Intelligence
Huawei is making its Ascend AI GPU software toolkit open-source to better compete against CUDA
Semiconductors
Chinese giant Tencent announces domestic AI chip push
GPUs
Samsung reportedly slashes HBM3 prices to woo Nvidia
DRAM
SK hynix completes development of HBM4
Artificial Intelligence
Nvidia responds to reports that H20 is ending production
Tech Industry
Manufacturing
Semiconductors
Huawei reveals long-range Ascend chip roadmap — three-year plan includes ambitious provision for in-house HBM with up to 1.6 TB/s bandwidth
News
By
Luke James
published
18 September 2025
Huawei’s AI silicon roadmap promises in-house HBM and a future for Chinese compute beyond Nvidia.
Comments (1)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Shutterstock)
Huawei’s AI silicon roadmap is no longer a state secret. Speaking at the Huawei Connect conference on September 18, rotating chairman Xu Zhijun outlined the company’s first official long-range Ascend chip strategy, with four new parts scheduled across the next three years: Ascend 950PR and 950DT in early 2026, followed by Ascend 960 and 970 in 2027 and 2028, respectively.Huawei says its upcoming 950PR chip will ship in Q1 next year with in-house HBM designed to compete with the likes of SK hynix and Samsung. That’s a pretty bold claim considering HBM supply and factors like packaging and bandwidth efficiency have arguably become the single biggest constraint on AI accelerator performance at scale.According to Huawei, the 950PR will feature 128GB of its in-house HBM delivering up to 1.6 TB/s of bandwidth, while the 950DT increases those figures to 144GB and 4 TB/s, but Huawei hasn’t disclosed how its in-house HBM is manufactured, what packaging is used, or which foundry is producing the chip itself.
You may like
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks
Huawei releases new tool to get Chinese firms around crushing HBM export blacklist
Under U.S. sanction rules, Huawei is barred from accessing TSMC’s advanced nodes and CoWoS packaging lines, both of which Nvidia uses to stack HBM around its top-end Hopper and Blackwell GPUs. If Huawei is working with SMIC or other domestic fabs, yields and bandwidth may prove to be hugely limiting factors.That hasn’t stopped the company from talking scale, though. Alongside its chip roadmap, Huawei teased new so-called “supernodes” that will house thousands of Ascend chips. The Atlas 950 and 960 systems are positioned as next-gen AI compute clusters that, on paper, rival Nvidia’s GB200 NVL72 configurations in deployment scale, with up to 15,488 Ascend accelerators in a single system. Huawei says Atlas 950 will debut in Q4 this year.But big numbers don’t necessarily translate into performance. Nvidia’s big advantage isn’t just its silicon but NVLink and a tightly optimized software stack that keeps its clusters saturated across large model workloads. To challenge that, Huawei is going to need more than a boastful chip roadmap — a roadmap that has landed conveniently alongside demands from the Chinese government to produce more domestic silicon and a ban on procuring Nvidia parts.Huawei will need a proven end-to-end platform that can match Nvidia in training, efficiency, and model throughput for its roadmap to succeed. Right now, it doesn’t, and plans alone don’t break bottlenecks.Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
TOPICS
Huawei
See all comments (1)
Luke JamesSocial Links NavigationContributorLuke James is a freelance writer and journalist.  Although his background is in legal, he has a personal interest in all things tech, especially hardware and microelectronics, and anything regulatory.
Read more
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
China's chip champions ramp up production of AI accelerators at domestic fabs, but HBM and fab production capacity are towering bottlenecks
Huawei releases new tool to get Chinese firms around crushing HBM export blacklist
Alibaba’s AI chip goes head-to-head with Nvidia H20 in state-backed benchmark demo
DeepSeek reportedly urged by Chinese authorities to train new model on Huawei hardware, met with multiple failures
Huawei to open-source its UB-Mesh data center-scale interconnect soon, details technical aspects
Latest in Semiconductors
China's largest chipmaker testing first homegrown immersion DUV litho tool
Exploring the RTX Pro 6000D, Nvidia's China-only GPU, which is now banned from sale
'Beyond EUV' chipmaking tech pushes Soft X-Ray lithography closer to challenging Hyper-NA EUV
Chinese giant Tencent announces domestic AI chip push
How TSMC managed to increase efficiency of ASML's EUV tools: System-level optimizations and in-house pellicles
Nvidia tipped to be TSMC's first 16A customer, ahead of Apple — Feynman GPUs could make full use of GAA transistors and backside power
Latest in News
Nvidia drops a cool $900 million on Enfabrica tech and hiring its CEO, report claims
Huawei unveils Atlas 950 SuperCluster
Teams at Nvidia and Intel have been working in secret on jointly developed processors for a year
xAI's new gas turbine facility gets halfway to Elon Musk's 1-gigawatt 'AI factory' goal
Snapdragon 8 Elite Gen 5 shows up in Geekbench with a score of 3,831
Microsoft announces 'world's most powerful' AI data center
1 Comment
Comment from the forums
zsydeepsky
Just a hint.
The fact that Huawei is officially publishing its chip roadmap means something. Huawei had never announced its chip models before; a guess was that the production was not completely sanction-free, like they may still use some certain materials or machinery that China can't provide, so they prefer to stay away from the spotlight.
like, for a very long time, they have NEVER publicly told people (including their customers) their phone SoC model. You get to know the name Kirin 9000S/9010/9020 by disassembling their phones to see the model number printed on the chip. Same as all the Ascend 910 variants.
Rumors on the streets are that SMIC has tested some Chinese-made iDUVs, and they performed better than the ASML machine they had access to (like 1970i/1980i).
Reply
View All 1 Comment
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.