Struggling to Find New Clients? Use the 'Lumberjack Strategy'. | Entrepreneur
Skip to content
Menu
Close Menu
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Sign In
Subscribe
Search
Entrepreneur Landing Page
Search
Close Menu
Subscribe to Entrepreneur
Starting a Business
Growing a Business
Leadership
Business News
Science & Technology
Money & Finance
Living
Franchise
Write for Entrepreneur
Bookstore
Ask an Expert
Tips
White Papers
Podcasts
Video
Entrepreneur TV
Webinars
Entrepreneur Store
Spotlight
Entrepreneur Authorities
Entrepreneur Authorities
Magazine Subscription
Edition
Plus
Minus
United States
Spanish
Georgia
India
Asia Pacific
Middle East
United Kingdom
Europe
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC
Home
Home
Breadcrumb Arrow
Growing a Business
This 'Lumberjack Strategy' Helps Me Find New Clients Quickly — and With Way Less Effort
I used this strategy to get clients easily and skip networking events for good. You can too.
By
Chuck Blakeman
Edited by
Frances Dodds
Aug 12, 2025
Share
Copy
This story appears in the
July 2025
issue of
Entrepreneur.
Subscribe »
I was exhausted. My B2B fulfillment business had grown rapidly and was doing $1.2 million annually, but finding new clients was a grind. I was trapped in an endless cycle of networking events, cold calls, and business card exchanges that yielded minimal results.Then I discovered what I now call the "Lumberjack Strategy" — and I started getting clients with ease. Better yet, I never had to attend another networking event again.Here's how it works: Instead of hunting for individual customers in a vast networking forest, I realized I could connect with people who had already chopped down all the trees. These are people who spent years building relationships with exactly the clients I wanted to serve — and now I just needed their help reaching their clients.
How? By playing a long game with relationships, and strategically hinting at how we could do more business together.Related: How to Craft Irresistible Offers Your Ideal Clients Can't Refuse
For example, here's how I did it with Gary (not his real name). He was a marketing manager I'd done some work with, who then moved into a mid-level job at Microsoft. We sent him a huge bouquet of lollipops on his first day. He said no one else did anything like it.From there, I dripped honey. Once a month, I sent emails on resources and information to help him succeed there. I sent him updates on my business every four to six weeks. I flew to Seattle once a quarter just to catch up with him — though I always told him I was there to "see potential clients." (I didn't want to freak him out.)After about 18 months, an outsourcing opportunity came up at Microsoft — and Gary thought of us. That turned into a $4 million contract. Then he started introducing us to other tech companies he worked with — so that Gary's clients became our clients.Gary was a perfect lumberjack. He wasn't a big shot at Microsoft; he was just a receptive, well-connected person. That's who you want.Related: Get Picky With Your Clients — How to Identify and Attract Your Ideal CustomerHere's how you can find your own lumberjacks:1. Identify who has your ideal clients.Start by making two lists: industries full of your potential clients, and specific individuals who already serve them. Look beyond the obvious. Sometimes your best referral partners are in adjacent fields, or even "competitors" who serve slightly different segments.2. Focus on the connectors, not the connected.Not all well-connected people are good lumberjacks. For example, I once wasted months pursuing one of Denver's most well-connected businesspeople, only to realize he collected connections but rarely shared them.
There's no single way to sniff these people out, but you'll get a sense over time — and when you see that they don't make connections, move on.Related: How To Attract Premium Clients And Charge Accordingly — Even During Market Instability3. Build relationships intentionally.I never directly ask for referrals. Instead, once I have a good working relationship with someone, I ask: "Do you know one other person who might benefit from the experience you're having?"This question is magic. It transforms the conversation from a self-serving request into an opportunity for them to help their friends.
4. Model the behavior you want.Often, the best way to get clients is to first start referring clients. I will start sending clients to a potential lumberjack, in the hopes that they'll want to return the favor.Related: 3 Ways to Attract the Customers You DeserveNot everyone will embrace this approach. That's fine.You only need three to five good lumberjacks to transform your business.
This isn't about hoping for referrals; it's about intentionally building relationships with people who can connect you with entire forests of clients. It took me five businesses to learn this lesson — but once I did, I was finally able to make my network work for me.Chuck Blakeman is a serial entrepreneur. This article is drawn from Chuck's new book, Sell Less, Earn More, now available everywhere.Join top CEOs, founders and operators at the Level Up conference to unlock strategies for scaling your business, boosting revenue and building sustainable success.
I was exhausted. My B2B fulfillment business had grown rapidly and was doing $1.2 million annually, but finding new clients was a grind. I was trapped in an endless cycle of networking events, cold calls, and business card exchanges that yielded minimal results.Then I discovered what I now call the "Lumberjack Strategy" — and I started getting clients with ease. Better yet, I never had to attend another networking event again.Here's how it works: Instead of hunting for individual customers in a vast networking forest, I realized I could connect with people who had already chopped down all the trees. These are people who spent years building relationships with exactly the clients I wanted to serve — and now I just needed their help reaching their clients.
The rest of this article is locked.
Join Entrepreneur+ today for access.
Subscribe Now
Already have an account? Sign In
Wavy Line
Wavy Line
Chuck Blakeman
Entrepreneur Leadership Network® VIP
Chief Transformation Officer at Crankset Group
Chuck Blakeman built 13 businesses in 10 industries on 4 continents. As a results leader, he writes and speaks from experience. #1 Business Book of the Year, TEDx speaker and world-renowned advisor. His great passion is for small business owners. www.chuckblakeman.com and www.3to5Club.com.
Want to be an Entrepreneur Leadership Network contributor?
Apply now to join.
Editor's Pick
Red Arrow
Taylor Swift and Amazon Share This 'Destructive' Superpower That Drives Serious Success, Says Former Harvard Business School Strategist
'Most Powerful Yet': Apple Just Revealed the iPhone 17, iPhone Air, and AirPods With Live Translation. Here's What to Know.
I Own a Professional Rugby Team — Here Are the 5 Biggest Lessons It's Taught Me About Business Leadership
This Mom's Garage Side Hustle for Kids Became a Business With $1 Billion Revenue
Franchisors Have a Secret Weapon Against Rising Costs. Here's How It Works.
This 29-Year-Old's Business Helps Young People Without Work Experience Earn Tens of Thousands and Launch Their Careers: 'You're Not Just Your Major'
Most Popular
Red Arrow
See all
Chevron Right
Buying / Investing in Business
Big Investors Are Betting on This 'Unlisted' Stock
You can join them as an early-stage investor as this company disrupts a $1.3T market.
By
StackCommerce
Business Ideas
70 Small Business Ideas to Start in 2025
We put together a list of the best, most profitable small business ideas for entrepreneurs to pursue in 2025.
By
Eve Gumpel
Buying / Investing in Business
From a $120M Acquisition to a $1.3T Market
Co-ownership is creating big opportunities for entrepreneurs.
By
StackCommerce
Marketing
The Branding Trick That Helped Dude Wipes, Colgate, Oatly, and Uber Rise Above the Rest
It's called "strategic enemy" — a way to position your brand against an enemy your consumer hates. Here's how to do it.
By
Laura Ries
Business News
Anthropic Releases a Report That Confirms AI Is 'Displacing Workers'
The study highlights the risk that AI is replacing employees entirely, instead of merely supporting their work.
By
Sherin Shibu
Business News
Elon Musk's Startup xAI Is Laying Off 500 Employees Who Worked on Training Its Grok Chatbot: 'Strategic Pivot'
The employees were on xAI's data annotation team.
By
Sherin Shibu
Success
Successfully copied link
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Cookies Policy
Accessibility Statement
Site Map
Contact Support
Advertise
Cookie Management
Sign up for our free Daily newsletter
We'll be in your inbox every morning Monday-Saturday with all the day’s top business news, inspiring stories, best advice and exclusive reporting from Entrepreneur.
We are a proud American independent media company that has never taken a dime of USAID taxpayer money 🇺🇸
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
YouTube
Instagram
TikTok
Snapchat
RSS
Copyright © 2025 Entrepreneur Media, LLC All rights reserved. Entrepreneur® and its related marks are registered trademarks of Entrepreneur Media LLC