Your Guide to Loaf Pan Sizes
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
The Ultimate Bread Baking Guide
26 Cast-Iron Bread Recipes
43 Quick Breads to Make in a Loaf Pan
Mini Meat Loaf Sheet-Pan Meal
42 Recipes You Can Make in a Loaf Pan
How to Adapt Baking Recipes for Different Pan Sizes
Find the Air Fryer Size That's Best for You
The Ultimate Frying Pan Guide
56 Recipes for Your 9x9 Pan
32 Potluck Recipes for Your 13x9 Pan
The Ultimate Guide to Different Types of Bread
16 Different Types of Pans Every Cook Should Know
What Size Roasting Pan Do I Need? Here's How to Choose.
Breakfast Breads to Make in a 13x9 Pan
Our Guide to Different Types of Yeast Breads
Anything But Square: 8x8 Pans You'll Love
Discover the Best Loaf Pans: Decorative, Glass, Non-Stick, and More for Perfect Baking Results
How do you make a quick bread recipe in mini loaf pans?
13x9 Pans You'll Love to Bake With
The Best 9x9 Pans for Cooking and Baking
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
Home
Test Kitchen
Your Guide to Loaf Pan Sizes
DAN ROBERTS FOR TASTE OF HOME
By
Molly Allen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Aug. 21, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Learn how to pick the best loaf pan size for yeast breads and quick breads.
Bakers use loaf pans for everything from yeasted breads to quick breads. But does the size of the loaf pan you choose matter?
In short, the answer is yes. While loaf pan sizes may seem insignificant, the pan’s volume can make all the difference in the outcome of your bread recipes. This goes for everything from basic homemade bread and pull-apart garlic bread to classic banana bread. If your breads are short and squat instead of rising high, your pan may be to blame. It’s best to stick to the size the recipe calls for, but we have tips and tricks for adjusting, if needed.
What is a standard loaf pan?
Taste of Home, stock.adobe.com
A loaf pan is a kitchen essential tool for any home baker. Its rectangular shape and high sides make it ideal for baking many bread loaf recipes, from sandwich bread to pumpkin bread, pound cakes and even savory dishes like meat loaf. There are two standard loaf pan sizes: 8-1/2-by-4-1/2 and 9-by-5 inches. Both have sides at least 2-1/2 inches tall (most 9-by-5-inch pans have 3-inch tall sides). The smaller pan holds 6 cups of batter or dough, while and the larger one holds 8 cups.
How to Choose the Right Size Loaf Pan
Pan Size
Dough Volume
9″ x 5″
8 cups
8 ½” x 4 ½”
6 cups
8″ x 4″
4 cups
5 ¾” x 3 ¼”
2 cups
Baking recipes will call for a specific loaf pan size for a good reason. While the difference between the two most popular sizes seems small, it equals a 15% change in capacity. That percentage can undoubtedly affect your final bake.
If your recipe calls for an 8-1/2-by-4-1/2-inch pan and you use a 9-by-5-inch pan, your bread could fall flat instead of properly rising. On the other hand, if your recipe calls for a 9-by-5-inch pan and you use an 8-1/2-by-4-1/2-inch pan, your batter may overflow and burn in the oven. It’s best to choose the size based on what you’re making, sticking to the recipe-recommended loaf pan size as closely as possible.
Types of Bread You Can Bake in a Loaf Pan
Yeasted breads: Yeasted breads usually start as dough made with water, yeast and flour. Bake homemade bread, like English muffin bread and garlic herb loaf, in a loaf pan.
Quick breads: Quick breads start off as batter made with either a butter or an oil base. The batter is usually loose enough to be poured into a loaf pan to bake. Some quick breads you can make in a loaf pan include zucchini bread, pumpkin bread and cinnamon roll bread.
Tips for Baking Bread in a Loaf Pan
What is the best loaf pan for baking bread?
The best loaf pans are made from glass, ceramic or metal. While any of these options are suitable for baking quick breads and yeasted breads, it’s not a bad idea to stick with a metal loaf pan. Aluminum and other metals conduct heat better, leading to nicer browning and crisping of the crust than ceramic and glass can achieve.
Do I need to grease a loaf pan before baking bread?
Whether baking a quick bread or yeasted homemade bread, greasing the loaf pan is an important step. This helps to prevent the bake from sticking to the pan. Grease it with cooking spray or butter. You can also use a long, rectangular piece of parchment paper to form a sling, making it easier to retrieve the baked and cooled loaf from the pan.
How do I scale a recipe for different-sized loaf pans?
If you don’t have the right size pan for your recipe, it’s essential to adapt baking recipes accordingly. That way, you can still use the pans you already have in your kitchen. Calculate the volume or size difference of the pan. For some recipes, you can use whatever loaf pan you have on hand, but try lowering the oven temperature and increasing the baking time for smaller pans.
Author
Molly Allen
Now a freelance writer and photographer specializing in stories about food and drink, Molly is a former bakery owner who brings her years of first-hand expertise to Taste of Home and other food-centric publications. She is a pizza oven expert having tested nine different models. She also has a passion for grilling and cooking on smokers and fire pi...
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box