Halo Reach remains the series's most divisive game, 15 years later
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
1
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Bungie dropped a bomb on the series — then peaced TF out
15 years later, Halo fans are still debating Halo: Reach
By
Ari Notis
Published 10 hours ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
1
Link copied to clipboard
Halo Reach
Related
Roblox's brainrot game is caught in a legal snafu that's got fans freaking out
3 days ago
Steam, Discord, and Twitch execs called to testify before Congress over 'radicalization' of users
4 days ago
The weird, heartbreaking FPS powered by science, not combat
4 days ago
Sign in to your Polygon account
Credit: Image: Bungie/Microsoft Game Studios
In September 2010, Halo changed forever. Halo: Reach, a prequel to Bungie’s Halo trilogy and the last game developed by the studio while under Microsoft’s umbrella, messed with established canon and introduced controversial features that fundamentally altered the Halo gameplay loop. (I still love you, Armor Lock.) Then Bungie moved on. But Halo sure didn’t. To this day, fans still debate the impact Halo: Reach had on the series. Released Sept. 14, 2010, for the Xbox 360, Reach details the Fall of Reach — a critical event in Halo lore when the antagonistic Covenant faction of religiously genocidal aliens bombs the human stronghold planet of Reach to smithereens. You’re cast as the faceless, nameless Noble Six, the newest member of an elite squad of armored supersoldiers (called Spartans) tasked with defending the planet. Spoiler alert: You fail. Reach directly sets up the events of Halo: Combat Evolved, the first game in the series. At the start of Combat Evolved, the interstellar-capable Pillar of Autumn spaceship appears in the orbit of a mysterious ringworld called Halo. Onboard are Halo protagonists Master Chief John-117 (a Spartan) and Cortana (an AI). A Covenant fleet quickly arrives and attacks the ship.
So is Halo: Reach canon or not? It’s a question fans have debated ever since 2010. While the prequel thoroughly details the Fall of Reach itself, many of the overarching narrative events were chronicled in the final act of Eric Nylund’s 2001 novel The Fall of Reach, which is also considered canon. And there are some plot points that don’t exactly line up. (The Fall of Reach was also depicted in the now-canceled Paramount Plus Halo TV show. Though statedly set in an alternate timeline, everyone unanimously agrees this interpretation of the events was The Worst. We can ignore this one.) In The Fall of Reach, Master Chief battles his way onto the Pillar of Autumn with Cortana in tow. But in Halo: Reach, Noble Six escorts Cortana to the ship; an end credits scene shows Master Chief already aboard, suspended in cryosleep. In The Fall of Reach, Cortana acquires the coordinates for Halo from an artifact from a lost civilization, found on a planet light years away from Reach. But in Halo: Reach, the coordinates are attained from an artifact already on Reach itself. Broad strokes, and there are a few more minor divergences — like implications about whether or not all Spartans besides Master Chief are killed in the Fall of Reach — but those are the big ones. Almost immediately after the release of Halo: Reach, fans started raising these questions. “Which storyline is canon: Halo Reach, or Halo Fall of Reach? *spoilers*,” poses one thread on Gamefaqs from 2010. The following year, devotees of the original lore incorporated the website haloreach.isnotcanon.net, which is exactly what it says on the tin, even likening some of the events of Halo: Reach to the infamous addition of midi-chlorians to Star Wars fiction. (The site finally closed in 2024.)
Credit: Image: Bungie/Microsoft Game Studios via Mobygames
You’d think time would quell these queries, but no. Both the primary r/Halo and r/HaloStory subreddit — the latter being dedicated entirely to discussion of Halo lore — are regularly populated by threads that restart the debate:
“How exactly is Halo Reach not canon?” one fan asked in 2019, sparking chatter about which details Halo: Reach acknowledges and doesn’t.
“Halo Reach and Fall of Reach cannot both be canon, you have to pick one and I am sorry to say, the game takes priority,” someone else said that year, resulting in a bunch of feedback from fans, in full “well actually” mode, claiming you don’t have to pick one.
“Halo Reach vs The Fall of Reach, which one is canon?,” one fan asked in 2020, again wondering whether the games trumped the book canon.
“Can we really consider Halo: Reach to be canon to the lore in any way?,” another person asked in 2022, complaining that “It’s clear bungie did not even try to make this game accurate or consistent.”
In 2023: “As fans of both the book 'Halo: the fall of reach' and 'Halo Reach' what is the more definitive story of how Reach fell[?]”
In 2024: “Cortana's creation in Reach retcons the books.”
In 2025, it’s simply: “Which reach is Canon?”
The boring answer is: Both versions are canon. Halopedia, the ultimate arbiter of Halo lore, decrees both The Fall of Reach and Halo: Reach as canon. Drawing on internal rules from Halo developer Halo Studios (née 343 Industries), Halopedia editors don’t apply a canonical hierarchy to various mediums, saying any officially sanctioned Halo media is part of the timeline. This effectively means you’re free to believe what you want, to justify any leaps of logic you need to square up the story in your head. (If you’re curious and have 30 minutes to spare, this video from the Halo Canon YouTube channel does yeoman’s work in untangling the threads.) Or you could continue to debate it. No one’s stopping you. In this, Halo: Reach has proved at least one old cliché true. For all the Covenant’s pontification about the “Great Journey,” it’s not the journey that matters. It’s the destination.
Gaming
Xbox
Feature
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
1
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Reply / Post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
Sort by:
Popular
Oldest
Newest
SingleNmarried
SingleNmarried
SingleNmarried
#MH982282
Member since 2025-03-06
20
Posts
Following
0
Stories
0
Topics
0
Authors
0
Users
Follow
Followed
0
Followers
View
Reach was the 1st Halo game I ever played since I never owned an Xbox console.up until that point but I remember it being a solid FPS but having not played any other Halo games before that I didn't know of anything controversial it was just another sci-fi FPS story to me
2025-09-21 19:08:26
Upvote
Downvote
Reply
Copy
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
5 days ago
Magic boss promises precons for 'future' Marvel sets — just not Spider-Man
2 days ago
Sylvester Stallone using AI to play an 18-year-old Rambo sounds great
4 days ago
Magic: The Gathering is reprinting 4 Commander staples with incredible new Play-Doh art
3 days ago
Critical Role's Campaign 4 trailer teases a broken world
Most Popular
Can the U.S. handle a 28 Years Later-style outbreak?
Jordan Peele might be the next Steven Spielberg — which also means producing duds
Magic's new Spider-Man set exposes a growing debate over MTG's most popular product
28 Years Later: The zombies are doing what?
50 years ago, Al Pacino made a perfect crime thriller that was ahead of its time
15 years later, Halo fans are still debating Halo: Reach
See More
Trending Now
Embrace the ultimate childhood party game with Bop It: The Video Game
Him director Justin Tipping explains Marlon Wayans' 'terrifying' moment on set
A horror legend's zombie legacy continues in Queens of the Dead
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.