Microsoft 365 users are getting a handy productivity tool at no additional cost
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
Sign in now
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Microsoft 365 users are getting a handy productivity tool at no additional cost
By
Simon Batt
Published 4 days ago
Simon is a Computer Science BSc graduate who has been writing about technology since 2014, and using Windows machines since 3.1. After working for an indie game studio and acting as the family's go-to technician for all computer issues, he found his passion for writing and decided to use his skill set to write about all things tech.
Since beginning his writing career, he has written for many different publications such as WorldStart, Listverse, and MakeTechEasier. However, after finding his home at MakeUseOf in February 2019, he has been working with it and its sister website, XDA, to bring the latest and greatest in Windows, artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity topics.
Sign in to your XDA account
Summary
Generate a summary of this story
follow
Follow
followed
Followed
Like
Like
Thread
Log in
Here is a fact-based summary of the story contents:
Try something different:
Show me the facts
Explain it like I’m 5
Give me a lighthearted recap
Summary
Copilot Chat is now included free for all Microsoft 365 users.
Works in a side pane, content-aware in apps; reference files with / to pull summaries.
Copilot subscribers get full work-data access, AI search, Canvas, extra agents, and GPT-5 priority.
If you're a Microsoft 365 fan, you either love Copilot or you hate it. Unfortunately for the latter camp, Microsoft would really, really prefer that you did love it. In fact, it wants you to use its AI assistant so badly that it's introducing a new feature that gives you the power of Copilot at your fingertips at no extra cost. However, if you are a subscriber to Copilot, don't fret; there's still something here for you.
Microsoft introduces Copilot Chat to all 365 users
Image Credit: Microsoft
In a post on the Microsoft Tech Community, the company breaks down what 365 users can expect from Copilot Chat. The most important thing to note is that Copilot Chat is available for all users, including people who aren't subscribed to Microsoft 365 Copilot; however, as we'll discover later, those who do pay monthly will get a little extra. So, what does Copilot Chat do? Well, as Microsoft puts it, it seems to be a real productivity powerhouse:
Copilot Chat is secure AI chat grounded in the web—and now, it’s available in the Microsoft 365 apps. It’s content aware, meaning it quickly understands what you’re working on, tailoring answers to the file you have open. And it’s included at no additional cost for Microsoft 365 users.
The moment you need it, you can pull up Copilot Chat in a side pane of your file, and it will be ready to help right where you’re working—which means less copy and pasting, file uploading, and switching apps.
If you want to refer to another one of your documents, you can type "/" into the chat bar and select the file you want Copilot to review. This allows you to grab summaries of other documents and paste them into your current one without even having to open them. Very handy. As we mentioned earlier, Microsoft 365 Copilot subscribers receive additional benefits beyond the base Chat functionality. This includes giving Chat "all of your work data—drawing from personal and shared documents, emails, meetings, chats, and more" to help it help you better. It also includes an AI-powered search for all your documents, plus a handy "Canvas" feature that allows you to create images in a flash. Plus, subscribers unlock more AI agents (including Researcher and Analyst) alongside priority access to generative AI features and the GPT-5 model. If you want to see more AI stuff you can do, Microsoft recently introduced a new tool to help people get more from their OneDrive files.
Storage
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
This Gen5 M.2 SSD delivers blazing-fast speeds up to 12,400MB/s, and it's now available at its lowest price
4 days ago
This Raspberry Pi project turned it into the ultimate travel gadget
5 days ago
This free writing app is still in beta but it's already replacing Google Docs for me
5 days ago
Tablet vs e-reader vs e-ink notepad: The easy way to choose the right one
Today's best deals
Score this Cooler Master wireless mechanical keyboard for 49% off and add a splash of color to your workspace
2 hours ago
Be quick and you can grab this HP 14-inch laptop for just $155
14 hours ago
This beloved open-world survival crafting game is just $2.49 on Steam for a limited time
20 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
6 settings I tweaked on my NAS that instantly made it faster
Nvidia's deal with Intel has far reaching implications, and most of them aren't good
7 ways I realized my NAS was better than Dropbox for work files
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.