The OnePlus 12 is one of favorite Android smartphones from 2024 - and it's on sale for $300 off | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
The OnePlus 12 is one of favorite Android smartphones from 2024 - and it's on sale for $300 off
With market-leading charging speeds, a big battery, and a premium build, the OnePlus 12 is a worthy rival to flagship smartphones.
Written by
Cesar Cadenas, Staff WriterStaff Writer
Sept. 17, 2025 at 1:00 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETBuy the OnePlus 12 for $550 (save $350) $350 off
4/5 Editor's deal rating $550 at OnePlus Although the OnePlus 12 hasn't been the company's flagship model for a while now, it remains a solid device. The phone boasts top-notch performance from its Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 Mobile Platform and incredibly fast charging speeds. It's a more affordable alternative to the OnePlus 13, and now is a great time to buy one because the device is currently on sale.Visit the company's website and enter the code "12SAVE300" at checkout to receive a $300 discount on the 512GB OnePlus 12 in Silky Black. The Flowy Emerald OnePlus 12 is currently out of stock. Additionally, it appears that the 256GB model is no longer available for purchase.Also: The best Android phones of 2025: Expert tested and reviewedIt's possible to save even more money on the OnePlus 12. Through OnePlus' program, you can trade in any device in any condition and receive a cool $50 discount, dropping the price of the smartphone to $550.
$350 off
Buy the OnePlus 12 for $550 (save $350)
$550 at OnePlus ZDNET's managing reviews editor, Kerry Wan, reviewed the OnePlus 12 when it first released back in 2024. I encourage everyone to read the review for deeper insight into the smartphone; however, here's a quick overview.Also: The best Bluetooth trackers you can buyThe OnePlus 12 is a well-rounded device capable of competing with the company's latest flagship model, the OnePlus 13. Thanks to the Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 3 processor, performance is fast and reliable. Users will be able to play demanding mobile games like Genshin Impact and hop between multiple apps with relative ease. Plus, its high-quality Quad HD+ (3,168 x 1,440 pixels) resolution display has a maximum brightness of 4,500 nits. That's bright enough to pierce through the sun's glare and maintain clear visibility.One of the smartphone's best features is its longevity. Its massive 5,400mAh battery allows the OnePlus 12 to last a full day and a half on a single charge. The model supports 80W wired and 50W wireless charging, so it can go from 0% to 100% battery in almost no time at all.How I rated this dealAs per ZDNET's rating system, I give the base deal a score of 4/5. $300 off is a big discount, and if memory serves right, this is the lowest price the OnePlus 12 has ever been outside of major sales events like Black Friday. The savings become even better through the trade-in program. Be sure to act fast because this deal will only be around for a few days.
When will this deal expire?
As per OnePlus, this deal will end on September 21.Deals are subject to sell out or expire at any time, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to score savings and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com.
Show more
How do we rate deals at ZDNET?
We aim to deliver the most accurate advice to help you shop smarter. ZDNET offers 33 years of experience, 30 hands-on product reviewers, and 10,000 square feet of lab space to ensure we bring you the best of tech. In 2025, we refined our approach to deals, developing a measurable system for sharing savings with readers like you. Our editor's deal rating badges are affixed to most of our deal content, making it easy to interpret our expertise to help you make the best purchase decision.At the core of this approach is a percentage-off-based system to classify savings offered on top-tech products, combined with a sliding-scale system based on our team members' expertise and several factors like frequency, brand or product recognition, and more. The result? Hand-crafted deals are chosen specifically for ZDNET readers like you, fully backed by our experts. Also: How we rate deals at ZDNET in 2025
Show more
Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's why
Forget iPhone 17 Air - this ridiculously thin Android lasts all day and is only $200
I've tested multiple laptops that cost less than $1,000: Here are the best
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use