Cloud Solutions for Financial Services - Cloud Computing - AWS
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
Financial Services
Segments
Compliance, Security and Governance
Generative AI
AI/ML
Case Studies
More
Industry›
Financial Services
AWS for Financial Services
Leave your legacy. Redefine your future on AWS.
Contact us
Reimagine your business for today and tomorrow
AWS for Financial Services is a pioneer at the intersection of financial services and technology, enabling our customers to optimize operations and push the boundaries of innovation with the broadest set of services and partner solutions – all while maintaining security, compliance, and resilience at scale. Tens of thousands of financial services firms around the world, from the fastest- growing Fintechs to systemically important financial institutions, are redefining their future on AWS.
Play
Segments
Banking
Capital Markets
Insurance
Payments
HSBC's Wealth and Personal Banking Cloud-First Strategy to Deliver Value and Innovation at Scale
HSBC WPB built on AWS to establish a cloud-first engineering and deployment platform that provides the agility needed to discover the right solutions to solve its business challenges.
Play
Benefits
Drive ground-breaking innovation with deep expertise
Leaders across the industry rely on AWS expertise developed from working with financial services customers for over 15 years.
Harness the power of the world's most secure, scalable, and resilient cloud
Run your mission-critical workloads anywhere with confidence, today and tomorrow.
Access unmatched options and capabilities to solve your challenges and support any use case
Benefit from choice and flexibility with the broadest set of cloud services and capabilities.
Leverage the power of a global partner community
Accelerate innovation with access to over 130,000 partners globally, including Financial Services Competency Partners.
Machine learning for financial services business leaders
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) services from AWS are designed to meet the needs of financial institutions of all sizes, so you can accelerate your adoption of these transformative technologies.
Learn about AI and ML for financial services
Achieve Cloud Transformation Success
Explore five business-critical cloud benefits for financial services institutions, best practices for adoption, and how AWS can help you move to the cloud faster and more confidently.
Download the eBook
Innovate with industry partners
Bloomberg
Tap into a universe of financial market data. Real-time market data from Bloomberg can be accessed quickly and efficiently through AWS PrivateLink.
Learn more »
FICO
FICO is an analytics software company helping businesses make better decisions to drive growth, profitability, and customer satisfaction.Learn more »
FIS
FIS empowers the financial world with payment processing and banking solutions, including software, services,  and technology outsourcing.
Learn more »
Guidewire
Guidewire delivers the software that Property & Casualty (P&C) insurers need to adapt and succeed in a time of rapid industry change.Learn more »
Nasdaq
Nasdaq and AWS are unlocking a new era of growth for global capital markets with next-generation infrastructure solutions.
Learn more »
Discover solutions in AWS Marketplace
Experian
Experian offers a number of products to help you unlock insights and take decisive actions in the momentsthat matter.
Learn more »
Unqork No-Code Platform
Unqork is a no-code application platform that helps organizations build enterprise-grade software faster, avoid legacy, reduce production issues, and lower total cost of ownership.
Learn more »
Actuarial Automation Platform
Montoux's actuarial automation platform shifts actuarial workloads to the AWS Cloud, enabling end-to-end actuarial process automation that allows actuaries to become more effective and create greater value for insurers.
Learn more »
Refinitiv Tick History – PCAP
This dataset contains PCAP data for Depth of the Book U.S. Equities exchange and the SIP (CTA and UTP) market data feeds.
Learn more »
Get started
Leading companies in financial services are already using AWS.
Contact us
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.