DreamScene is (spiritually) back in Windows 11, letting you use videos as your desktop background — Latest Insider build finally returns coveted feature | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Windows
Microsoft fixes Windows Vista boot sound bug in latest Windows 11 Insider Build — adds Recall Homepage and customizable system indicators
Windows
A Windows Insider user discovers an undocumented ‘Shared audio’ feature in the latest build
Handheld Gaming
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
PC Gaming
Microsoft brings native Xbox app gaming to Windows on Arm PCs
Windows
Windows 7 runs natively on the Steam Deck
Windows
Microsoft replaces the iconic blue screen of death with a black version in Windows 11
Windows
How to tweak your Windows 11 and Windows 10 setup with Winaero Tweaker — easily remove ads, tracking, AI copilot, and more
Windows
Windows 8.1 graphics get bit-crushed into working in 40-year-old EGA graphics mode
Windows
Ditching Windows 10? Here's how I installed Windows 11, removed AI, and stripped out unnecessary features
Artificial Intelligence
Microsoft brings AI-powered assistance to gaming
Windows
Microsoft Gaming Copilot hits Windows in public beta
Windows
Windows 11 25H2 ISOs released after delays
Linux
I took a look at AnduinOS, a Linux distro that feels like home for Windows users
Operating Systems
Custom Windows 11 builder axes Microsoft's AI features, whack-a-moling Copilot, Outlook, and Teams
Linux
I've tried many Linux distros designed to look and feel like Windows, and this is the best one yet
Software
Operating Systems
Windows
DreamScene is (spiritually) back in Windows 11, letting you use videos as your desktop background — Latest Insider build finally returns coveted feature
News
By
Hassam Nasir
published
21 September 2025
Finally, I can retire Wallpaper Engine.
Comments (4)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Microsoft)
Personalizing the computers we own — whether it's a phone or a proper desktop — is one of life's few simple comforts. It can bring you joy knowing that your favorite picture will greet you every morning when you start your day. Now, movements behind the Windows 11 development scene indicate that pictures could soon be exchanged for videos. Microsoft has finally added the option to use video files as desktop backgrounds in the latest Windows 11 Insider build, and it works seamlessly, as spotted by @phantomofearth on X.Windows DreamScene is back! Hidden in the latest Windows 11 Dev/Beta build (26x20.6690) is built in support for setting video files like .mp4 as your desktop background: pic.twitter.com/B4vdtfvqScSeptember 20, 2025As the tweet says, some of you may remember Windows DreamScene from back in the day. It was a built-in utility that allowed users to put videos as their wallpaper... up until Vista. Unfortunately, DreamScene was pulled from Windows 7 and never made a comeback officially. In the meantime, alternatives like the ever-so-popular Wallpaper Engine rose to fame and replaced DreamScene in the zeitgeist. Many modern gamers today may not even remember that dynamic desktop backgrounds used to be a native feature of the OS.
(Image credit: Windunce on Windows 8 Forums)Fortunately, Microsoft is finally answering the community's decades-long prayers and testing this feature. It's available as part of the Windows 11 26x20.6690 Dev/Beta builds, for which you have to join the Windows Insider program. Once in, all you have to do is enable feature ID 57645315 and restart the explorer.exe process in Task Manager. After that, just open settings, and you should see .mp4, .m4v, .mkv, .mov, .wmv, .avi, and .webm in the list of supported file formats when you go to select a new wallpaper. Simply pick a video you want and you're good to go.
You may like
Microsoft fixes Windows Vista boot sound bug in latest Windows 11 Insider Build — adds Recall Homepage and customizable system indicators
A Windows Insider user discovers an undocumented ‘Shared audio’ feature in the latest build
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
Keep in mind that this feature only works on the desktop, not on the lockscreen so you're not going to get those macOS-style aesthetic TikToks out of your utilitarian Windows system anytime soon. More importantly, though, since this is an experimental feature, there's no saying when it will actually make its way to the stable, public release channel — if at all. Similar to the native speed test button that Microsoft is trialing, this feels like a fairly iterative yet obvious improvement that we should, therefore, see go mainstream relatively soon.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
TOPICS
Windows 11
See all comments (4)
Hassam NasirSocial Links NavigationContributing WriterHassam Nasir is a die-hard hardware enthusiast with years of experience as a tech editor and writer, focusing on detailed CPU comparisons and general hardware news. When he’s not working, you’ll find him bending tubes for his ever-evolving custom water-loop gaming rig or benchmarking the latest CPUs and GPUs just for fun.
Read more
Microsoft fixes Windows Vista boot sound bug in latest Windows 11 Insider Build — adds Recall Homepage and customizable system indicators
A Windows Insider user discovers an undocumented ‘Shared audio’ feature in the latest build
Microsoft's new handheld gaming mode, exclusive to ROG Xbox Ally, has just leaked for every handheld running Windows 11
Microsoft brings native Xbox app gaming to Windows on Arm PCs
Windows 7 runs natively on the Steam Deck
Microsoft replaces the iconic blue screen of death with a black version in Windows 11
Latest in Windows
Microsoft’s pivotal Windows NT 3.5 release made it a serious contender, 31 years ago today
Microsoft Gaming Copilot hits Windows in public beta
Windows 11 is getting a built-in internet speed test feature that will take you to Bing
Ditching Windows 10? Here's how I installed Windows 11, removed AI, and stripped out unnecessary features
Windows 11 25H2 ISOs released after delays
Nano11 compresses Windows 11 install footprint to as little as 2.8GB
Latest in News
Rare wooden-cased Apple-1 computer blasts past auctioneer estimate
China is converting farmland into data centers as part of $37 billion effort to centralize AI compute power
Notorious software bug was killing people 40 years ago
SoftBank beams 5G to phones from the sky in successful stratospheric test flight
Amazon sends a literal brick to a customer in lieu of the RTX 5080 they ordered
Radeon RX 9070 gains 25% performance in synthetic benchmarks using RX 9070 XT vBIOS
4 Comments
Comment from the forums
derekullo
Hear me out.
Dreamscene but with an AI prompt so your wallpaper/video wallpaper is different every time you login but hopefully keeps the same vibe!
Let an AI hallucination brighten your day !
Reply
fireaza
I've been using Windows ever since 3.1, and I have no idea this was ever a feature!
Seems to me like running your favorite wallpapers though WAN to use AI to animate them, sounds like a pretty good use for this feature! Sadly, I don't think there's any 4K models available, so the clarity of your wallpapers would take a hit.
Reply
das_stig
Sounds fun, until the first malware AI video turn up !
Reply
ravewulf
fireaza said:I've been using Windows ever since 3.1, and I have no idea this was ever a feature!Only in Windows Vista Ultimate as an Ultimate Extra, but it was fun 😀
Reply
View All 4 Comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.