Freed after 38 years in prison, wrongfully convicted man receives $25 million settlement from the City of Inglewood - CBS Los Angeles
Latest
U.S.
Dallas ICE Shooting
Kimmel Returns
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Los Angeles
|
News
Weather
Sports
Videos
News Tip
KCAL News Shows
All News
LA News
OC News
IE News
U.S.
KCAL News Investigates
Entertainment
Politics
Consumer
Business
Health
On Your Side
Latest Weather
Radars & Maps
All Sports
Chargers
LA Kings
Rams
Lakers
Clippers
Golf
CBS Sports HQ
Dodgers
Angels
Soccer
Hockey
College Sports
The Desk
Let's Go Places
On Your Side
Inside SoCal
Java with Jamie
KCAL News Investigates
Class Act
SoCal Spotlight
People Making a Difference
Station Info
KCAL News Team
Contests & Promotions
Advertise
Seen on TV
Download the App
Galleries
Memorials
Watch CBS News
Local News
Freed after 38 years in prison, wrongfully convicted man receives $25 million settlement from the City of Inglewood
By
Julie
Sharp
Julie
Sharp
Web Producer, CBS Los Angeles
Julie Sharp is a digital producer at CBS Los Angeles. She is a South Bay native and majored in print journalism at Cal State University Long Beach. Julie previously reported for the Beach Reporter, contributed to the Palos Verdes Pulse and worked as a video journalist for CBS News before joining the CBS News Los Angeles website team.
Read Full Bio
Julie
Sharp
Updated on:
September 24, 2025 / 10:22 AM PDT
/ KCAL News
CBS News Live
CBS News Los Angeles
Live
The City of Inglewood has agreed to pay $25 million to a 72-year-old man who spent nearly four decades in prison for a crime that he did not commit, making it what "appears to be California's largest-ever wrongful conviction settlement," attorneys said.Maurice Hastings was convicted of the 1983 kidnapping and murder of an Inglewood woman and the attempted murder of both her husband and his friend. After 38 years in prison, new DNA evidence exonerated and freed him in 2022 and led to the identification of a different suspect. Hastings was declared factually innocent by a California superior court in 2023.
Maurice Hastings, who spent more than 38 years behind bars for a 1983 murder he didn't commit, is applauded while appearing in court in Los Angeles, where a judge officially found him to be factually innocent on March 1, 2023.
J. Emilio Flores/Cal State LA News Service via AP, Pool
Back in 1983, Roberta Wydermyer is said to have taken a late-night trip to a market in Inglewood but never returned home. Her husband and friend went out to look for her and located her car, which had been stolen. As they followed Roberta's stolen car, the suspect shot at them, wounding her husband, Billy Ray Wydermyer.Police say that the suspect robbed Roberta, sexually assaulted her and then shot her in the back of the head before hiding her in the trunk of her car, which he stole. Hastings' first trial ended in a hung jury, but a second trial found him guilty of the crimes. He was sentenced to life in prison without parole.
Attorneys with the law firm Neufeld Scheck Brustin Hoffmann & Freudenberger said that the 2023 federal civil rights lawsuit demonstrated that a detective with the Inglewood Police Department "falsified evidence of Hastings's guilt and buried evidence corroborating his alibi, single-handedly framing an innocent man." Attorneys called it "policing at its worst," as weeks after Roberta's murder, the man whose DNA ultimately linked him to the crime was in police custody for car theft and had jewelry and a coin purse that matched what the victim had on her when she was murdered. That suspect, Kenneth Packnett, also had the same type of gun on him that was used to shoot the victims, attorneys said. Packnett was never investigated by police for the crimes. DNA evidence and corroborating testimony from his ex-girlfriend later proved that Packnett was the sole perpetrator of the 1983 crimes.Pcknett died in 2020, when he was serving time in prison for a separate case of kidnapping and rape.
"Police departments throughout California and across the country should take notice that there is a steep price to pay for allowing such egregious misconduct on their watch," said NSBHF partner Nick Brustin. Hastings said in a statement through his attorneys that no amount of money could restore the 38 years that were stolen from him. "But this settlement is a welcome end to a very long road, and I look forward to moving on with my life," Hastings said.  "I thank God that I've made it to the other side of this decades-long ordeal, and I thank my family and legal team for their steadfast support over the years."Hastings' conviction for abduction, sexual assault, murder and attempted murder was vacated due to a joint effort from the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office and the Los Angeles Innocence Project.
More from CBS News
LAPD detectives seeking hit-and-run driver who left man with severe injuries in Vernon
Former Riverside County deputy who shot father of his girlfriend's children granted probation
Man arrested by immigration agents outside Newsom's redistricting event in LA speaks
LA County man pleads guilty to delivering deadly dose of fentanyl via drone
Ventura County man arrested for recording women inside Target dressing rooms
Julie
Sharp
Julie Sharp is a digital producer at CBS Los Angeles. She is a South Bay native and majored in print journalism at Cal State University Long Beach. Julie previously reported for the Beach Reporter, contributed to the Palos Verdes Pulse and worked as a video journalist for CBS News before joining the CBS News Los Angeles website team.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
LAPD detectives seeking hit-and-run driver who left man with severe injuries in Vernon
Former Riverside County deputy who shot father of his girlfriend's children granted probation
Man arrested by immigration agents outside Newsom's redistricting event in LA speaks
LA County man pleads guilty to delivering deadly dose of fentanyl via drone
Featured
Dallas ICE Facility Shooting
Trump U.N. Speech
Secret Service Telecom Threat
Ryan Routh Convicted Of Trump Assassination Attempt
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Los Angeles
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KCBS-TV
Public File for KCAL-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue