Best Things to Do in Budapest and Things to Skip, From Local - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Travel
I lived in Budapest for 7 years. There are 4 tourist spots I wouldn't recommend — and 4 that are worth the hype.
By
Denae McGaha
In my opinion, Fisherman's Bastion is worth the crowds.
Denae McGaha
2025-09-16T16:01:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
After living in Budapest, Hungary, for seven years, I learned a lot about the city's popular tourist attractions.
I find the Széchenyi Baths and New York Café too crowded, and think there are better alternatives.
There are some tourist spots that are worth the cost and crowds, though, such as Fisherman's Bastion.
When I moved to Budapest, Hungary, at 23 years old, I didn't expect it to become home for the rest of my 20s.I loved it, though — so much that I even started my own Budapest travel blog and joined the tourism industry once my teaching contract expired.
By the time I left in 2025, I had more than seven years of experience showing guests around one of the most beautiful cities in the world.It's safe to say I know how to stack a Budapest itinerary. So, here are four popular tourist spots I wouldn't recommend, but another four that I believe are worth the hype.
I typically skip the stunning but often crowded Széchenyi Baths.
The Széchenyi Baths are beautiful but typically packed with tourists.
s4svisuals/Shutterstock
This Neo-Baroque bath complex is certainly eye-catching, but Széchenyi is often packed with visitors.I usually tell visitors to instead check out the Rudas Baths, which are just as gorgeous but often less crowded.These Turkish baths date back to the 16th century, but the complex also includes some newer additions for a modern spa experience — including a rooftop hot tub that provides a stunning panoramic city view.
For a more off-the-beaten-path browsing experience, swap Central Market Hall for Fény Street Market.
I think more tourists should check out Fény Street Market.
Denae McGaha
Don't get me wrong: The soaring ceilings and colorful stalls of Budapest's largest covered market are beautiful. But the upper levels can quickly become a crowded maze.For unique souvenirs and authentic food, I'd recommend the glass-roofed Fény Street Market, which is beloved by locals.I always enjoy browsing stalls of true artisan crafts before grabbing traditional Hungarian food from one of the stalls upstairs.
Unless you specifically want to shop at designer stores, consider passing on Andrássy Avenue.
My favorite street for shopping and people-watching is Bartók Béla Avenue.
Denae McGaha
Budapest's original grand boulevard, Andrássy Avenue, is now mostly full of pricey restaurants and designer stores.If you're planning to do some serious shopping, this street could be great. If not, though, I suggest heading over to the west side of the city to see where Budapestians really spend their leisure time.There, you'll find Bartók Béla Avenue, which is full to bursting with colorful bars, cafés, and galleries. Trust me, you'll get a much closer look at what life in Budapest looks like.
There are several coffeehouses I'd recommend over the New York Café.
The New York Café is beautiful, but I don't think it's a must-visit.
Travel Enthusiast/Shutterstock
Yes, the New York Café bills itself as "the most beautiful café in the world," and I don't necessarily disagree. It's absolutely stunning.Every time I visit, however, I end up waiting in a very long line — and the prices are often more than I'm hoping to spend.Instead, you may want to consider visiting Central Café or the Gerbeaud Confectionery and Café for a taste of the upscale coffeehouse culture that defined Budapest during the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
On the other hand, I suggest facing the crowds to visit Fisherman's Bastion.
I think a trip to Budapest is incomplete without a visit to Fisherman's Bastion.
Denae McGaha
The creamy white turrets and spires of Fisherman's Bastion make it look like a castle right out of a fairytale. Even after living in Budapest for seven years, I can admit: There's really nothing like it.Crowds are inevitable, but in my opinion, this historic monument — and the view of the city you'll get from the top — are well worth it.Try going before sunrise for a bit more space to yourself.
I always recommend visiting the House of Terror Museum.
The House of Terror offers an educational glimpse into Hungary's history.
Denae McGaha
If you have time for only one museum in Budapest, I'd suggest the House of Terror.This museum offers an educational look into the darkest chapters of Hungary's history, including both devastating tales of oppression and violence and inspiring stories of bravery and resistance during the Nazi and Communist occupations of Budapest.The Museum of Ethnography and Hospital in the Rock are also enriching places to visit, if you have the time.
You shouldn't skip a sunset cruise on the Danube River.
I think there's nothing quite like a sunset cruise on the Danube.
Denae McGaha
Budapest only gets prettier at sunset. A Danube river cruise will take you past castles, churches, and other UNESCO World Heritage sites, all in the span of a couple of hours.There are a ton of different cruises you can book, from classic sightseeing tours to traditional Hungarian dinners to techno party rides, just to name a few.
The Szimpla Kert ruin bar can get packed, but it's still worth a visit.
It can get crowded, but I still love visiting Szimpla Kert.
Bukharova Liia/Shutterstock
Budapest's most famous ruin bar is on tons of tourist lists, and as a result, it can get packed — but it's something you should see at least once.The eclectic decor, which has been layered over the decades, makes each room feel different from the last. Exploring the whole complex feels like an adventure.But no two ruin bars are the same. If you feel like checking out a spot with a bit more local flair, make time to visit Pótkulcs, A Grund, or Manyi. Egészségedre (cheers) to that!
Recommended video
Travel
Europe
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account