3 Ways Private Companies Are Reshaping Public Markets | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Table of Contents
Key Takeaways
How Private Markets Are Transforming Public Markets
Are Promising Companies Staying Private?
Public Companies Taken Private
A Note on Private Market Returns
How to Position Your Portfolio in the Evolving Landscape
Home
Funds
3 Ways Private Companies Are Reshaping Public Markets
3 Ways Private Companies Are Reshaping Public Markets
Has the small-cap investment case changed?
Zachary Evens
Sep 24, 2025
Share
Securities in This Article
Figma Inc Class A
(FIG)
Circle Internet Group Inc Ordinary Shares - Class A
(CRCL)
Key TakeawaysThe growth of private capital is forcing a rethink of the small-cap investment case.High-growth-potential companies are remaining private rather than entering the public market as small-cap stocks, if at all.Public firms are increasingly being taken private, and at higher prices.Private firms are competing more aggressively with public firms for business, shifting the competitive landscape in some industries. Small companies are most vulnerable to increasing competition.Private markets are fundamentally transforming public markets in the United States. A surge in private capital flows is keeping some high-growth-potential companies private for longer, intensifying business competition among public and private firms, and causing more public companies to be taken private. This is shifting the investment landscape, but the effect is most acute on small-cap stocks because smaller companies have weaker fundamentals and fewer competitive advantages compared with larger firms.
Relative Growth of Morningstar US Small Cap Index
Source: Morningstar Direct. Data as of Aug. 31, 2025. Download CSV.Small-cap stocks have underperformed large-cap stocks in recent years. In fact, the Morningstar US Small Cap Index lagged the Morningstar US Large Cap Index by 49 basis points annualized, or 401% cumulatively, from 1992 through August 2025. That underperformance gap has widened to 6.2% annualized over the past 10 years. The small-cap index was much more volatile during both periods. This goes against the long-held belief that riskier small-caps should compensate investors with higher returns.Tomorrow’s huge stocks are already big. And tomorrow’s big stocks may never exist as a small-cap public company. One argument suggests that the growth of private markets has dented the upside of small caps. If true, a core thesis of small-cap investing, that “tomorrow’s big stocks are today’s small stocks,” will be moot. Increasingly, tomorrow’s huge stocks are already big. And tomorrow’s big stocks may never exist as a small-cap public company.There are nuances to consider, though. Small-cap performance has historically gone in and out of favor, so it’s unclear if the recent past was just another drought or a more meaningful shift.New Morningstar research examines the evolving landscape, small-cap underperformance, and if investors should rethink their allocations to small-cap stocks and funds. How Private Markets Are Transforming Public MarketsThe growth of private capital is forcing a rethink of the small-cap investment case. There are three primary ways in which private markets are reshaping small-cap investing:Venture capital funding is keeping high-growth-potential companies private, allowing a meaningful portion of their growth to accrue outside the reach of most investors.Small-cap stocks are increasingly being taken out of public markets by private equity firms.Record venture capital and private equity funding is causing private firms to compete aggressively with public firms, shifting the competitive landscape in some industries.President Donald Trump’s August 2025 Executive Order, aimed at broadening access to private markets, could accelerate these effects, too.The result is a reduction in the number of public companies eligible for small-cap stock indexes, and a deterioration of the aggregate growth potential and relative quality of those companies. As shown below, the fundamental metrics of the Morningstar US Small Cap Index have deteriorated rapidly relative to the large-cap index based on a composite quality score. This contributes to bleaker sentiment among the small-cap cohort and likely to some of the underperformance observed earlier.
Relative Quality (Small Minus Large)
Source: Morningstar Direct, author’s calculations. Data as of Aug. 31, 2025. The composite quality score includes return on assets, return on equity, net margin, and debt/capital. Download CSV.Are Promising Companies Staying Private?Anecdotally, it’s clear that venture capital funding keeps promising companies private for longer and at high valuations. Some of the most consequential companies today have never traded in public markets but are larger than most public companies. According to PitchBook data, OpenAI was a $300 billion company as of its March 31, 2025, valuation. SpaceX was a $400 billion company as of Aug. 13. Anthropic was a $183 billion company as of Sept. 2. The list goes on. If publicly traded, any of these firms would be top holdings in the Morningstar US Large Cap Index.The data is starting to turn, but it doesn’t completely support the idea that promising companies aren’t going public. PitchBook reported that 167 US companies went public between 2022 and 2024, and 2021 saw a record 313 initial public offerings from venture capital- or private equity-backed firms. And already in 2025, there have been several notable IPOs, including Figma FIG and Circle CRCL, both of which surged on debut. The chart below shows these trends since 2006.
IPO Activity and Median Size
Source: PitchBook. Data as of Sept. 15, 2025. Download CSV.What these anecdotes miss, however, is that most of the IPO activity remains further down the market-cap ladder. Big IPOs get the headlines, but dozens of small-cap companies still go public every year, refuting the idea that the IPO market has dried up completely. The challenge for small-cap investors is that the highest-growth-potential IPOs may never exist as a small-cap company. Figma and Circle both traded at market caps above $50 billion on their first day being public, for example. And if any of the top holdings in the Morningstar PitchBook Unicorn 30 Index went public, few or none would debut in small-cap territory. Public Companies Taken PrivateAnother area where private capital is distorting the small-cap investment landscape is the emerging trend of small-cap stocks being plucked out of public markets by private equity firms. The chart below shows the number of public companies taken private and their median post valuation since 2006.
Public Companies Taken Private
Source: PitchBook. Data as of Sept. 15, 2025. Download CSV.Public companies rarely go private, but it’s happening more often than it used to, and the companies taken private are larger than they used to be. The effect on the small-cap investment universe is minor for now, but as private equity balance sheets expand, it’s likely that small-cap private companies will increasingly be the targets of leveraged buyouts. And once bought out, the cash infusion may intensify competition with public competitors, stealing business away from those with fewer competitive advantages.Recent US policy changes could be a tailwind. According to the Investment Company Institute, Americans held $8.7 trillion in 401(k) plans as of March 31, 2025. This is an enormous and untapped market for private equity companies. Even a slight uptick in private equity adoption in 401(k)s would represent a windfall for private equity funding, which is already large and growing. The White House’s Aug. 7 Executive Order could spur more deals and potentially lead to more public company buyouts by private equity firms needing to deploy new funds.A Note on Private Market ReturnsIf private markets are holding small-cap stock returns back, it’s unclear if that translates to private market outperformance. If it does, then those private market returns are likely out of reach for most. Research finds great variability in private equity and venture capital returns, so even if “average” returns look decent, achieving the average return is likely impossible. Steven Kaplan, Robert Harris, Steven Neil, and Tim Jenkinson found in their 2015 paper, How Do Private Equity Investments Perform Compared to Public Equity?, that private equity did outperform the S&P 500 on average, but the returns had a heavy positive skew, meaning a select few outperformed by a wide margin. Fund and security selection is even more important in private equity and venture capital than it is in public markets because of the skewed distribution of outcomes.Read: How Attractive is Private Equity?Also read: 2 Funds Star in Debut of Morningstar Medalist Ratings for Semiliquid FundsHow to Position Your Portfolio in the Evolving LandscapeAs private capital continues to encroach on public capital, investors should be prudent. Small-cap valuations remain low on average, and there are still opportunities in that market, but investors should be deliberate in their selection of small-cap stocks and small-cap funds.Higher-quality small-cap stocks have extended their lead and should continue to outperform lower-quality small-cap stocks, since profitable businesses are likely better equipped to weather intensifying competition. Many active small-cap fund managers are focusing on higher-quality companies, identifying take-private targets, and evaluating the public and private competitive landscape of each industry they invest in. Small-cap index fund investors should prefer larger (by average market cap) and higher-quality strategies. The Morningstar Medalist Rating for funds rewards index funds like these with Silver or Gold ratings. These types of small-cap index funds hold stocks that are the least likely to be adversely affected by the shifting landscape. At least not yet.Get the full report: How Private Companies Are Reshaping Public Markets.Read next: Why Bother With Small-Cap ETFs?Also read: The Best Small-Cap ETFs
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
Your Active ETF Is Cheap, But Your Trade Might Not Be How to minimize active ETF bid-ask spreads, and why it’s worth the effort.
Robby Greengold, CFA Sep 25, 2025
Why Schwab U.S. Dividend Equity ETF Remains Exceptional
Recent lackluster performance has not changed our outlook on this fund.
Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 24, 2025
Investors First: Inside Morningstar’s Semiliquid Fund Ratings With growing investor interest in private assets and alternative investment strategies, Morningstar’s CEO discusses the firm’s new Medalist Rating for semiliquid funds.
Kunal Kapoor, CFA and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 24, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Zachary Evens Manager Research Analyst
More from Author
Zachary Evens is a manager research analyst for Morningstar. Email Zachary at zachary.evens@morningstar.com.
3 Ways Private Companies Are Reshaping Public Markets
Zachary Evens Sep 24, 2025
The 2 ETFs That Track Congressional Stock Trades
Zachary Evens Sep 18, 2025
3 Great Short-Term Bond ETFs
Zachary Evens Sep 3, 2025
A Next-Generation Income ETF
Zachary Evens Aug 20, 2025
3 Great ETFs That Invest Globally
Zachary Evens Aug 13, 2025
Our 2025 ETF Predictions: A Midyear Review
Zachary Evens Jul 16, 2025
3 Great New Vanguard ETFs
Zachary Evens Jul 9, 2025
Why iShares Core US Aggregate Bond ETF Is a Great Index Fund
Zachary Evens Jul 3, 2025
3 Top International ETFs for 2025 and Beyond
Zachary Evens Jun 25, 2025
How to Launch an ETF: Key Takeaways for Investors
Zachary Evens Jun 11, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility