The Witcher: Blood Stone is a 'blood-soaked' new adventure — here's an exclusive first look
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
The Witcher
The monster of man returns
Geralt's 'blood-soaked' new adventure revealed in The Witcher: Blood Stone first look
By
Aimee Hart
Published 6 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
Slash your way through the Ninja Gaiden series before it leaves Game Pass
7 days ago
Star War Outlaws on Switch 2 settles it: Nintendo is in its port era now
Sep 14, 2025
Tim Burton gets his first movie into the Criterion Collection
Sep 15, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Dark Horse Comics
It's never been a better time to be a fan of The Witcher: a new season is coming up, Ciri is getting her own video game, and now, in an exclusive reveal from us at Polygon, we can confirm that Geralt's adventures are continuing in a brand-new series from Dark Horse Comics. Titled The Witcher: Blood Stone, the comic is a collaboration between CD PROJEKT RED and Dark Horse. The comic follows Geralt as he learns ancient dwarven mines have drawn the attention of treasure hunters — and local legend tells of a horned beast that's killing them. However, there's just one problem: There's no evidence of an attack. Having little other choice, Geralt investigates the area. Unfortunately, the mountains and its mines are treacherous, and, as Geralt discovers, sometimes it's best to leave what remains undisturbed. The four-issue miniseries is written by Daniel Freedman (Birdking, Kali), with letters by Hassan Otsmane-Elhaou (Kill All Immortals, The Witcher: The Bear and the Butterfly), colors by Roman Titov (Cyberpunk: 2077: Big City Dreams), and art by Pius Bak (Godfather of Hell, Slightly Exaggerated). The miniseries also includes main cover art from Bak, with variant covers fromGigi Cavenago (The Magic Order, Dylan Dog), concept artist and illustrator Axel Sauerwald, and illustrator and graphic designer, Patrycja Podkościelny.
"I am thrilled to leave my mark on the legendary long-running fantasy, The Witcher," Freedman said in an exclusive statement. “Geralt and I share a lot of the same sensibilities and getting to weave a blood-soaked tale about the true monster of man is always an opportunity I relish.” "Daniel Freedman has written one of the best dark fantasy comic books ever, Birdking," added Marcin Zwierzchowski, Editor, Writer, and Franchise Creative at CD PROJEKT RED. "So inviting him to tell his own story in the world of The Witcher felt like a perfect match. Together with Pius Bak and Roman Titov they formed a dream team that crafted a wonderful story about greed and wounds that do not heal." The first issue (of four) of The Witcher: Blood Stone arrives in comic shops on Jan. 28, 2026 for $4.99.
The Witcher
Entertainment
Comics
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 15, 2025
Anime piracy is riskier after Japan's latest crackdown
Sep 14, 2025
Weapons, Honey Don't, Shadow Force and every movie new to streaming this weekend
Sep 14, 2025
How a 64-year-old sci-fi show explains Alien: Earth’s quirkiest character
Sep 15, 2025
Donkey Kong Bananza DLC reveals the Switch 2 hit’s fatal flaw
More from our brands
Why Did Henry Cavill Leave The Witcher?
Best Games To Play If You Like The Witcher 3
How to Break the Silken Curse in Hollow Knight: Silksong
54 Darkest Batman Comics On DC Universe Infinite
Ten Years After The Witcher 3's Release, CD Prokect Red Releases The Witcher 3
I Was Worried About Witcher 4, But The Latest Gameplay Footage Convinced Me It Won't Suffer The Same Fate As Cyberpunk 2077
The Team Behind Witcher 3's Rumored Upcoming DLC Made One Of 2024's Coolest RPGs
Most Popular
Weapons is getting an Aunt Gladys prequel — whether you like it or not
PlayStation's next State of Play streams this Wednesday
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
The Mandalorian movie could make up for Star Wars' biggest misfire
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
See More
Trending Now
Julia Fox shot an alternate ending for Him, and has opinions on what could have come next
1:18
I went to Borderlands 4's... New York Fashion Week runway show?
Steel Ball Run anime's first trailer kicks off JoJo's next wild ride
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.