7 Pie Crust Designs for Prettier Pies
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
46 Easy Puff Pastry Recipes To Try ASAP
Classic Butter Pie Crust
30 Graham Cracker Crust Pie Recipes So Easy You Can Make Them Tonight
79 Easy Dessert Ideas
40 Recipes for No-Bake Pies
37 Quick Dessert Recipes Perfect for Any Baking Emergency
Our 50 Best Pie Recipes, from Classics to New Favorites
42 Vintage Pie Recipes We Still Make Today
7 Pudgy Pie Recipes
12 Easy Slab Pie Recipes Perfect for Feeding a Crowd
48 Recipes That Start With a Cookie Crust
10 Easy Crescent Ring Recipes
16 Ways to Make Dinner in a Pie Plate
5 Types of Pie Crust
23 Easy Cheesecake Recipes
14 of Our Prettiest Lattice Pie Recipes
Lattice Pie Crust
33 Recipes for Pretty Spring Pies
16 Gifts for Pie Bakers
Top 10 Baking Recipes
TASTE OF HOME
Home
Recipes
Cooking Style
Baking
7 Easy Pie Crust Designs
TASTE OF HOME
By
Lisa A. Kaminski and Val Goodrich
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Jun. 20, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Go beyond the basics with your pie decorations. We'll show you how to make pretty pie crust designs for stand-out desserts.
ⓘ
Perfecting your pie-making? Once you’ve collected all the proper pie-baking tools and have mastered the perfect crust recipe, the next step is to learn how to make pretty pie crust designs.
Fluting is the most common technique, but there are so many pie crust patterns that seriously look like works of art. From twists and braids to cut-outs and layered looks, these pie decorations take the dessert to a whole new level. Try these techniques on our best pie recipes for a dessert that looks and tastes spectacular.
Fluted Edge
TASTE OF HOME
The fluted edge is one of the most common finishes for pies, and it’s simple. You can use it on basically any pie recipe, whether it’s a single- or double-crusted pie.
To create a fluted edge, trim the pie pastry to about 1/2 inch beyond the rim of the pie plate (an entire inch if it’s a double-crusted pie). Fold the overhang over itself toward the outside to form the edge.
Flute the crust by positioning your index finger on the inside edge, pointing outward. Place the thumb and index finger of your other hand on the outside of the edge and pinch the pastry around the inside finger to form a V shape. Continue around the entire edge of the pie.
Roped Edge
TASTE OF HOME
Roped edges are a step up from the basic fluted edge. Like fluting, you can use this technique on single- and double-crust pies, but it’s easier to pull off on single-crusted pies. I love the way it looks when used on vintage pies or classic pies like pecan pie or French silk pie.
To create a roped edge on a pie, trim the pastry about 1/2 inch from the edge of the pie plate for single-crust pies, and 1 inch for double-crust pies. Fold the overhang over on itself, tucking it into the edge of the pie plate. Make a fist with one hand and press your thumb at an angle into the pastry. Pinch some of the pastry between your thumb and index finger. Repeat this at about half-inch intervals around the crust. For a looser-looking rope, position your thumb at a wider angle and repeat at 1-inch intervals.
Braided Edge
TASTE OF HOME
For a single-crusted pie, you can get a bit more creative with the edges (since there’s nothing to seal anything inside). Save this technique for more simple-looking pies that need a little je ne sais quoi, like strawberry pie, an easy lemon pie or Indiana’s sugar cream pie. I wouldn’t make the braid for any pies that have whipped cream or meringue on top because it will most likely cover the braid.
To make a braided edge for pies, double the crust recipe—you’ll need the extra for the plait. Line the pie plate with the bottom pastry and trim it so it’s even with the edge of the pan. Roll the remaining pastry dough into a 10×8-inch rectangle. Using a ruler, cut twelve 1/2-inch-wide strips with a sharp knife or even a pizza cutter. Carefully braid three of the strips together.
TASTE OF HOME
Brush the edge of the crust with water. Place the braid on top of the edge and press the braid down lightly to secure it. Repeat with the remaining strips, attaching additional braids until the entire edge is covered. Cover the braid with a foil pie crust shield to protect it during baking and prevent it from overbrowning.
Reverse Scalloped Edge
TASTE OF HOME
The reverse scalloped edge is a simple finish for single-crust pies. I love saving this one for crumb-topped pies like sour cream rhubarb pie, rustic peach crumble pie or Amish shoofly pie. A crumb-topped pie can look a little chaotic, but the symmetrical scalloped edge creates order. Plus, there’s less pie crust with this technique, but a crumb topping adds that texture back in.
To make a reverse scalloped edge, line the pie plate with the rolled-out pie dough and trim it until it’s even with the plate. Use a 1-teaspoon measuring spoon to cut scallops around the outside. Remove and discard the cut pieces. For more defined scallops, use a larger measuring spoon.
Shaped Trim
TASTE OF HOME
Use small cookie cutters to make shapes for a cute decorative edge on pies. Be sure that they’re small cookie cutters—ideally 1 to 2 inches in size. You’ll want to make extra pie pastry for these cut-outs.
I love saving this crust technique for festive occasions where the cutouts make sense: leaves on a classic pumpkin pie, stars on Fourth of July pies or shamrocks on an Irish stew pie.
To make a pie crust with cutouts, roll out the first pie crust and fit it into the pie plate. Trim the crust to the outer edge of the plate. Roll out the extra dough thinly and cut out shapes with the cutters. If they’re sticking, dust them lightly with flour. For extra detail, use a sharp knife to add indentations—like veins in leaves or definition in pumpkins.
To attach the shapes to the pie crust, brush the bottoms of the cutouts with water and gently press them to the edge of the crust. It looks nice to overlap the shapes slightly. For more dimension, bake a few extras to scatter on top of the pie once it’s done in the oven. Just keep an eye on the crust to make sure it isn’t browning too quickly. Covering the edge with a foil pie crust shield is a good idea here.
Pastry Cutout
Blueberry Dream Pie Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Use the same cookie cutter method to cover the entire top crust of the pie. Since you’re covering a larger area, almost any size cookie cutters can be used. Unlike lattice pie crusts, which are a bit fussy, cookie cutters create a wonderfully decorative top in no time. This pie crust pattern is best for fruit pies, as the natural gaps in the crust allow steam to escape.
To make this decorative pie crust, prepare the bottom pie crust and filling as directed in the recipe. Before the pie goes in the oven, brush the bottoms of the pie dough cutouts with water and arrange them over the top of the pie. Press down lightly to secure the shapes to the edge and to one another, then bake the pie according to the recipe.
Reverse Cutout
Taste of Home
Love the look of the cutouts but want more pie crust on your double-crusted pie? The reverse cutout technique provides both! For this method, assemble the bottom pie crust and filling as directed in the recipe. Roll out the top pie crust as normal, then, using a medium or small cookie cutter, cut out select parts of the crust. Be sure not to make these cutouts too close together. Lay the crust on top, crimp the edge to seal it and bake the pie according to the recipe.
TASTE OF HOME
Pie Crust Designs FAQ
What pie crust is best to work with?
The best pie crust to work with is a classic butter pie crust. We tested pie crusts made with butter, shortening and lard to find the best, and the butter pie crust outperformed all three in terms of flavor, texture and workability.
Can you use store-bought pie crust to make these pie crust patterns?
Yes, these pie dough designs can be made with any one of the best store-bought pie crusts! It’s so much quicker to use premade pie crusts, and since they’re thoroughly chilled, they’ll bake up nice and flaky.
How do you add shine to a pie crust?
Taste of Home
Experienced bakers know that the secret to a shiny pie crust is an egg wash. Before baking your pie, lightly brush the crust with an egg (or just the white or yolk, depending on the recipe) whisked with a teaspoon of water. This will give the pie a beautiful shine.
Sugar can also add shine to a pie crust. Simply brush the pie crust with water before sprinkling it with sugar. Use coarse sanding sugar or turbinado sugar for a more distinct crunch, or traditional granulated sugar for a pretty finish.
Author
Lisa A. Kaminski
Lisa is a former Taste of Home editor. During her six years here, she researched and tested ingredients, kitchen gear and home products, and wrote articles to highlight the best of the best.
Read More
Author
Val Goodrich
Val channels her experience from the Culinary Institute of America and a number of bakeries into her daily work at Taste of Home. She’s usually typing away at her desk in Philly, but otherwise, you can find her planning her next trip abroad, using her ice cream maker or filling her basket at the farmers market.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box