NordVPN Review 2025: Fast, Private and Superb for Streaming - CNET
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
iPhone 17 Review: Skip the Rest, This One's All You Need
02
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
03
Are the AirPods Pro 3 Steve Jobs' Ultimate Audio Legacy?
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
I Tested 2 Budget Alienware Gaming Laptops. This Is the One to Get
06
iPhone 17 vs. iPhone 16: Which One Should You Buy?
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
TechServices & Software VPN
NordVPN Review 2025: Fast, Private and Superb for Streaming
Whether you’re streaming on Netflix, need strong privacy or anything in between, NordVPN is fast, easy to use and packed with unique privacy features -- making it one of the best VPNs available.
Article updated on September 5, 2025 at 3:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Moe Long
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Moe Long Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film. Expertise Apps | Operating systems | Software
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
1600170018001900200021002200230024002500 Speed Tests 11121314151617181920 Eval. Points 01020304050607080910 VPNs Tested
How we test
We intensively test each VPN, making sure it meets our standards for privacy, speed and usability.
8.8/ 10
SCORE NordVPN
$4 at NordVPN
Price
$13 per month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 per year)
Latest tests
No leaks detected, 3% average internet download speed loss in 2025 tests
Network
7,400-plus servers in 118 countries
Jurisdiction
Panama
Score Breakdown Usability
8/10Value
8/10Speed
10/10Privacy
9/10Features
9/10
Pros
Extremely fast
Lots of helpful privacy features
Excellent for streaming
Intuitive apps
Large international server network
Diverse device support
Great value for the initial term
Cons
Extortionate renewal pricing
Limited split tunneling control on Android
Table of Contents
NordVPN Review 2025: Fast, Private and Superb for Streaming
Speed: Head-spinningly fast
Cost: Competitive introductory pricing, but price hikes are exorbitant
App performance: Intuitive, excellent for streaming and available on almost any device
Privacy and transparency: Nord packs plenty of neat privacy features, but could make its privacy policy a little clearer
Final thoughts: NordVPN is fast, private and exceptional for streaming
NordVPN is an excellent all-around virtual private network that’s fast, excellent for streaming and packs advanced privacy features. A true household name, you’ve probably heard about Nord from your favorite podcast, YouTuber or via one of its plentiful banner ads peppered across the internet. I’ve even seen NordVPN commercials on TV while watching UNC men’s basketball games on ESPN. But popularity isn’t everything. Luckily, NordVPN lived up to the hype in my hands-on testing -- the company emerged head and shoulders faster than the rest of our top-rated VPNs, including ExpressVPN, Surfshark and Proton VPN.Whether you want to significantly beef up your privacy, stream foreign Netflix libraries in buttery-smooth 4K or travel internationally while enjoying internet services like you would at home, NordVPN is a solid choice. Its diverse capabilities make Nord a compelling option for everyone, from casual users to folks with critical privacy needs. Apps are intuitive on all platforms, working equally well for VPN beginners and privacy enthusiasts alike. In addition to its standard-fare VPN features, Nord includes advanced amenities such as double-hop and Onion Over VPN servers, which make it even harder to trace your traffic back to its source than a traditional VPN connection. Although I appreciated Nord’s competitive introductory pricing, its auto-renewal price hikes -- a disappointingly prevalent practice among VPN providers -- are steep, even compared to many rivals. Thankfully, you can avoid an expensive autorenewal by stacking subscriptions, but I’d like to see the same sort of transparency you’ll find with NordVPN’s approach to privacy mimicked in its pricing structure. Overall, NordVPN largely lives up to its braggadocio as a great virtual private network, but the hefty renewal rates make it less enticing as a long-term investment.Speed: Head-spinningly fastKey takeaway: NordVPN is lightning-fast, keeping internet speed loss to a minimum, and in some cases even improving my internet speeds. Its large web of servers makes Nord one of the best VPNs for travel or accessing region-restricted streaming services. Speed loss: 3% average internet speed lossNumber of servers: 8,000-plusNumber of countries: 126To assess NordVPN, I ran over 250 internet speed tests and was impressed at its blisteringly fast 2.9% average internet download speed loss, which left our other top VPNs in the dust -- Proton VPN was the closest with an average 16% internet download speed loss.All VPNs slow down your internet connection at least somewhat. Connecting to the internet is like ordering food from your favorite meal delivery service: The fewer stops it makes, the faster it usually arrives at your doorstep. Accordingly, tunneling your web traffic through a VPN hides your public IP address for extra privacy but adds another “stop.”
NordVPN is the fastest VPN we tested -- I retained the bulk of my base internet speed. Screenshot/CNETIn my 2024 testing, I clocked a best-in-class 11% average internet download speed loss, and Nord somehow whittled that down substantially this year. My download speeds when connected to the VPN were faster on MacOS, using both OpenVPN and the WireGuard-based NordLynx VPN protocols, than my base internet speeds. There are several reasons why this might be the case, like bypassing throttling restrictions or more efficient communication with servers than your ISP’s DNS servers. Your internet service provider needs to be able to read your IP address to throttle your speeds, so a VPN’s IP masking can actually speed up your connection if you’re experiencing throttling.Although I experienced minor speed loss on Windows (11% with NordLynx and 21% with OpenVPN), it was virtually unnoticeable over my Google Fiber Wi-Fi. Normally, OpenVPN speeds are slightly slower than WireGuard, which proved true with Nord’s Windows app, but it was still pretty snappy. For reference, Netflix recommends a minimum internet download speed of 15Mbps for watching 4K ultra-high-definition videos. Most folks with a 50Mbps or higher internet connection shouldn’t notice any of Nord’s impact -- you can expect best-in-class performance. Nord’s extensive global server roster is great for international travel and unblocking geo-protected contentOver the past year, Nord aggressively expanded its worldwide network of servers, which now sits at 8,000-plus servers peppering 126 countries. That’s among the highest of any VPN I’ve tested, edging out ExpressVPN (105 countries) and Surfshark (100) countries. Proton VPN has more servers (14,900-plus) but slightly fewer countries (122). Whether you’re gallivanting across the globe or want to unblock geo-restricted streaming content like foreign Netflix and Disney Plus libraries, NordVPN’s generous server network has you covered. Cost: Competitive introductory pricing, but price hikes are exorbitantKey takeaway: Initial pricing is palatable, but NordVPN hikes prices more than competitors when subscriptions renew. That said, user-friendly apps and exceptional streaming service unblocking make it a solid option for everything from maintaining privacy to streaming buttery-smooth 4K movies and shows.Price: $13 a month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 a year)Money-back guarantee: 30 daysPayment options: Credit/debit cards, PayPal, Google Pay, Cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc.)Available apps: Windows (x86 and ARM), MacOS, Linux (GUI and CLI), Android, iOS, iPadOS, Android TV, Amazon Fire TV, Apple TV, Kindle Fire, Oculus Quest, Apple Vision Pro, web browsers, routersNord's annual plan starts at a reasonable $60 a year, significantly undercutting ExpressVPN while matching Proton and being more expensive than the wallet-friendly Surfshark. You can save even more with a two-year plan, but I don’t advise signing up for more than a year with a VPN provider considering how quickly the landscape changes. Your fast, private VPN could suffer slower speeds or a data breach during that time, at which point you may want to change VPNs.However, like many of its VPN rivals, Nord slaps you with price hikes after your initial term, so your sweet introductory cost spikes from $60 for the first year to $140 upon renewal, which is a 133% price increase. While Surfshark, Proton VPN and ExpressVPN also jack up prices on their one- and two-year plans -- its autorenewal pricing is borderline extortionate. But you don’t have to take my word for it; class action lawsuits against NordVPN in California and North Carolina allege deceitful autorenewals. Although price hikes are the industry standard, Nord's is heftier than most. I’d prefer no price hike or, at the very least, a more reasonable renewal bump, like from $60 to $80 a year. By comparison, Mullvad doesn’t hike the price at all, priced at 5 euro (about $6) a month whether you stay on its monthly plan or purchase multiple years of service. Both Surfshark and Proton slap you with autorenewal price hikes, but much more reasonable than Nord; Surfshark from $48 a year to $79, and Proton VPN from $60 to $80 annually. NordVPN offers a 30-day money-back guarantee if you’re unsatisfied with your service. There are many payment options, from the usual suspects like credit and debit cards or PayPal to cryptocurrencies. Paying with crypto doesn’t offer total anonymity but can be tougher to trace back to the buyer than more traditional payment methods, so it’s nice to have for privacy-conscious buyers. I like how you can even snag NordVPN in-store at some brick-and-mortar retailers, like Best Buy.Pro tip: You can save money on your VPN plan by stacking subscriptions with NordVPN to avoid a pricey auto-renewal. For example, if you’ve got six months left on an annual plan, you can get another year’s worth of service during a Black Friday sale, which adds 12 months to your existing package. If you sign up and want to keep the service longer, I recommend immediately canceling your auto-renewal, and purchasing another subscription plan before your membership expires. NordVPN bundles let you tack on goodies like password managers and security software
Plan BasicPlusCompletePrice $13 a month, $60 for the first year or $83 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $140 a year)$14 a month $71 for the first year or $108 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $180 a year)$15 a month, $84 for the first year or $135 total for the first two years (one- and two-year plans renew at $219 a year)VPN YesYesYesThreat protection Pro anti-malware, advanced browsing protection and ad/tracker blocker NoYesYesNordPass password manager NoYesYesData breach scanner NoYesYes1TB cloud storage NoNoYesDedicated IP Optional ($9 a month, $71 a year or $100 total for two years)Optional ($9 a month, $71 a year or $100 total for two years)Optional ($9 a month, $71 a year or $100 total for two years)Incogni personal data removal Optional ($11 a month, $81 a year or $121 total for two years)Optional ($11 a month, $81 a year or $121 total for two years)Optional ($11 a month, $81 a year or $121 total for two years)NordProtect Silver identity protection Optional ($15.49 a month, $90 a year or $132 total for two years)Optional ($15.49 a month, $90 a year or $132 total for two years)Optional ($15.49 a month, $90 a year or $132 total for two years)
VPN providers have begun offering more privacy and security features, with Nord joining the fray. Nord sells tiered subscriptions that bundle in goodies like password managers and antivirus software. While its entry-level Basic tier sticks to VPN services, its Plus and Complete plans tack on assorted privacy and security amenities. For instance, higher-tier plans offer Nord’s Threat Protection Pro anti-malware software and NordPass, CNET's password manager pick if you regularly handle large file sizes. Complete tacks on 1TB of secure cloud storage. Additionally, you can pay for a dedicated IP address that only you can use (which could be helpful in bypassing CAPTCHAs), Incogni personal data removal and NordProtect Silver identity protection as paid add-ons across any of the three plans.
Some subscriptions let you bundle your VPN service with anti-malware protection, shown here. Screenshot/CNETThere are upsides to bundling privacy and security services. Paying one bill for multiple services may be more convenient and cheaper. But if there’s a data breach and the company you’re using for a VPN, password manager and anti-malware protection gets compromised, that’s more data in one stolen basket.App performance: Intuitive, excellent for streaming and available on almost any device
NordVPN's apps give you lots of useful data at a glance. Screenshot/CNETI tested NordVPN on a bevy of devices, including a Windows PC, MacBook Air, Android phone, iPad, Chromebook, Nvidia Shield TV, Android TV box, Amazon Fire TV Stick and Apple TV. I was pleased to find a largely consistent experience across devices. Nord’s apps are intuitive with a slick, modern layout that makes hopping on a server and changing settings a breeze. It’s not as minimalist as ExpressVPN, but the Nord apps are just as friendly to first-time users are they are to privacy enthusiasts.There's an Apple TV app and an ARM for Windows app, so you can use Nord on virtually any device. The streaming app for Apple TV, Android TV and Amazon Fire TV devices is more subdued, forgoing the visual map in favor of a simple list of countries. In May 2025, NordVPN launched its first Linux GUI app, which is easier to use for Linux beginners than a command-line interface app -- and you still have access to Nord's CLI app.NordVPN’s fast speeds and large global server roster make it fantastic for streaming
I was able to access Netflix while connected to a Canadian server. Screenshot/CNETNordVPN is one of the best VPNs for streaming from Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and other services. Its top-notch speed loss makes Nord an excellent option for watching 4K UHD videos. Meanwhile, its plentiful servers make geo-unblocking content a breeze. I had no issues using a VPN for US-only streaming services like Max, Peacock, Paramount Plus, Hulu and Crunchyroll. I easily unblocked several international Netflix, Disney Plus and Amazon Prime libraries. I effortlessly accessed Netflix UK, Canada, Australia, France, Germany, South Africa, Romania and Japan, enjoying M3GAN on Netflix with a Canadian server and Star Trek: The Next Generation using a Romanian server (both titles are unavailable on Netflix in the States). Unfortunately, Netflix Egypt wouldn’t load -- it just showed US content -- so if you want to watch any of the Arabic-only videos there, I’d recommend Proton VPN or ExpressVPN.
Nord's server menus make it easy to change your connection. Screenshot/CNETWhether you want to cut through regional sports blackouts, watch foreign content libraries at home or access your streaming apps while traveling abroad, NordVPN works like a champ for buffer-free streaming. You even use a VPN to save money on streaming service subscriptions.     Nord’s split tunneling lets you selectively enable a VPN, but I’d like more control on AndroidNord’s apps have split tunneling, which lets you use a VPN for some apps but not others. I streamed M3GAN on Netflix UK with a VPN while excluding my Steam games app to enjoy faster download speeds while installing Life is Strange. But Nord’s Android split tunneling only lets you exclude apps from using a VPN, meaning the default behavior is to tunnel everything through a VPN. By contrast, Surfshark and Proton let you route only selected apps or choose apps to bypass a VPN for more split tunneling flexibility. Helpfully, there’s an option to select all apps on your device that don’t play nicely with VPNs, so I was able to quickly bypass a virtual private network connection for the Sonos app and keep it on my local network.As expected, you won’t find split tunneling on MacOS or iOS/iPadOS -- Apple’s networking infrastructure complicated split tunneling for VPNs starting in 2020. Mullvad and PIA are two of the few Mac VPNs that offer split tunneling. Customer service is good, and it’s easy to get a real personDespite its user-friendly nature, you may need assistance with app installation, billing or something else. NordVPN provides 24/7 customer support via email and live chat, but no phone. Many companies, including NordVPN, offer live chat via a bot first. I asked Nordbot a question about renewing subscriptions, and it gave me a clear, detailed answer that included information regarding stacking subscriptions. The info was helpful, easy to understand and I liked the transparency that I was talking to a bot. But not all questions are so swiftly handled by bots, so I requested a real person by simply typing “real person.” Thankfully, I didn’t have to jump through any hoops and was connected to a customer service representative, Pedro. (If you’re reading this review, hi Pedro!) Pedro was friendly and informative, answering my queries about the process for upgrading NordVPN plans mid-subscription.Key takeaway: NordVPN’s user-friendly apps and exceptional streaming service unblocking make it a solid option for everything from maintaining privacy to streaming buttery-smooth 4K movies and shows.Privacy and transparency: Nord packs plenty of neat privacy features, but could make its privacy policy a little clearerKey takeaway: NordVPN includes a bevy of niche yet useful privacy features, undergoes regular audits and publishes quarterly transparency reports. While its privacy policy is pretty decipherable, I’d like to see it become even more reader-friendly.Jurisdiction: PanamaEncryption: AES-256-bit encryption (OpenVPN), ChaCha20 (NordLynx)RAM-only serversPost-quantum protectionLeaks: No leaks detected in 2025 testingIndependently auditedVPN protocols: NordLynx (WireGuard-based), OpenVPN, NordWhisperWhile VPNs are great for entertainment purposes, like streaming videos and gaming, they’re privacy tools at their core. NordVPN ticks a lot of boxes, starting with its privacy-friendly jurisdiction in Panama, which sits outside of the Five, Nine and 14 Eyes data-sharing alliances. The company offers industry-standard privacy features alongside advanced options. It has a kill switch that cuts off your internet connection in case of an unexpected internet interruption. During my testing, its kill switch successfully kept my public IP address hidden and worked flawlessly on all platforms.
You'll find essential privacy features in NordVPN's apps, including a kill switch and split tunneling. Screenshot/CNETLike many competitors, NordVPN relies on RAM-only servers, so the server stack completely reboots after each session, meaning no data from your VPN session is saved to a hard disk. There are debates among VPN providers about the privacy and security benefits of RAM-only server infrastructure versus full-disk encryption, and I feel at ease with either one. Like most VPN services, Nord maintains a strict no-logs policy, but its RAM-only servers mean that there’s theoretically no user browsing session data to share at all.Specialty servers and post-quantum protections are nice upgrades for power users
Alongside its standard VPN connections, NordVPN offers Onion Over VPN servers, which use Tor and a VPN connection for enhanced privacy. Screenshot/CNETAside from its standard VPN servers, Nord offers a few specialty servers for beefed-up privacy:Double VPN servers: Use two VPN connections instead of one to make it even harder to trace your internet traffic back to your machine when compared with a standard VPN connection.Onion over VPN servers: Use a VPN and Tor to make it harder to follow your internet traffic back to your device than with a standard VPN connection.Obsfuscated servers: Try to hide the fact that you're using a VPN, which may help you stay private in situations like on school Wi-Fi or in certain countries where content may not load properly with a VPN. Obfuscation attempts to hide your VPN usage, but it's not a guarantee that your virtual private network will remain undetected.P2P servers: Optimized servers for file-sharing protocols, like BitTorrent, so you can upload and download privately.Double VPN and Tor over VPN servers both add another level of encryption on top of a VPN connection, but using different methods. Multi-hop adds a second VPN tunnel, making it even more difficult to trace your internet traffic back to its source. Likewise, Onion over VPN servers use a combination of Tor (The Onion Router) and a VPN to make following your web traffic back to you even harder than with a traditional VPN connection. Each is a good option for people with critical privacy needs, at the cost of slowing your connection speed.Nord’s obfuscated servers try to disguise the fact that you’re using a VPN. Some apps, websites or internet networks (like school Wi-Fi) may not work properly with VPNs, so you may not be able to load different apps and sites. Using obfuscated servers may solve the issue, but doesn't guarantee that your VPN connection will go unnoticed. If you decide to try obfuscated servers, always be aware of local laws or terms of service. Many folks use VPNs for torrenting, and NordVPN offers P2P-optimized servers. It doesn't have port forwarding, which may improve upload and download speeds or help start torrents with few seeders (uploaders). But in my testing, NordVPN was still fast and capable of downloading even torrents without many seeders. Plus, port forwarding can be a security risk, so many VPNs don't support it -- of our top-rated VPNs, only Proton VPN has port forwarding.Post-quantum protection helps guard against potential decryption fueled by quantum computing, but is relatively rare in the VPN industry. Nord brought this protection to its entire fleet of apps -- Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, iOS/iPadOS and even Android TV as well as Apple TV. You can easily toggle it on and off, but it’s only available with NordLynx, not OpenVPN or NordWhisper. Because NordLynx usually offers faster speeds without compromising privacy, that’s not a downside -- in my daily use, I typically left Nord on auto-connect or selected NordLynx.
You can easily enable NordVPN's scam call protection from within the NordVPN Android app. Screenshot/CNETNordVPN offers scam call threat protection on Android. While many mobile carriers offer spam call filtration, and you can often enable settings directly on your Android or iPhone to weed out scam calls, it's a nice feature that makes NordVPN an even more compelling mobile VPN.Nord undergoes annual audits and publishes a regular transparency reportNo-logs policies are an important part of VPN's privacy stance, the foundation of trust that the company isn't recording data of your web activity. While zero-logging policies are tough to prove with complete certainty, third-party audits can back up VPN provider claims as important trust signals. In Nord's fifth annual audit last year, Deloitte found no evidence of logging.In 2024, Nord shifted away from a warrant canary to publishing quarterly transparency reports, a move I appreciated. While the reports are pretty barebones, they’re nonetheless helpful for seeing the number of DMCA and government institution requests the company received as well as how many orders Nord complied with. According to the report, Nord received 3,001,848 DMCA requests and 88 inquiries from government agencies between April 1 and July 1, 2025. As of Aug. 11, 2025, Nord has disclosed limited user information once. NordVPN told me via email: “In October 2024, NordVPN received a legally binding warrant from the Panamanian prosecutor’s office as part of a criminal investigation. This warrant was issued in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, and we were legally required to provide the user data in our possession.”“It is important to note that, according to our privacy policy, the only information we could supply was payment-related details and confirmation of the account linked to the email address provided by the authorities. We do not collect or store any logs of internet traffic, or other information regarding users’ online behavior. Thus, we had no such data to share. Ensuring the security and privacy of our customers remains our top priority.”That doesn’t necessarily make me hesitate to use Nord. The best we can hope for in these situations is for companies to maintain user privacy while complying with local laws. In fact, you can think of this situation as a test of whether Nord actually doesn’t log user data. (It didn't.) Still, if you need even stricter privacy, Mullvad doesn’t require an email for signup, further minimizing your identifiable connection to its service.Nord's privacy policy is largely standard fare, but could be clearer about a few detailsA crucial part of our VPN testing is poring over privacy policies. While it’s a best practice to read the fine print, not everybody has time to trek into the often obtuse labyrinth of legalese that comprises many privacy policies. Overall, NordVPN’s privacy policy is pretty paint-by-numbers. NordVPN overhauled its privacy policy in 2025, and I like how reader-friendly it is. There are summary sections providing helpful overviews of different sections to help you skim rather than read every word.Notably, in its Requests for data section, the privacy policy states: “...we do not log users’ browsing history, traffic information, or IP addresses used to access the internet via our services. This means that we are not able to link shared IP addresses of VPN services to an individual user or otherwise individual users based on data that we do not process.”I do think a few areas could be more explicit, such as a section regarding the sharing of personal data in the event of a business transfer:“We may share your personal data in those cases where we sell or negotiate to sell our business or go through a corporate merger, acquisition, consolidation, asset sale, reorganization, or similar event. In these situations, Nord will continue to ensure the confidentiality of your personal data.”These instances aren’t entirely uncommon. For instance, NordVPN and Surfshark merged in 2022, while Kape Technologies bought ExpressVPN in 2021. Nord said via email about its business transfers clause, “This is a standard clause, used by the legal team to cover some theoretical possibilities in edge cases.” I don’t agree entirely about this, and would like more transparency about what specific data could be transferred in the event of a sale. There’s nothing especially troublesome in its privacy policy, but Nord has some room for improvement with its language surrounding business transfers, which I’m hoping to see in its upcoming privacy policy update.Final thoughts: NordVPN is fast, private and exceptional for streamingNordVPN is an outstanding VPN for various types of users, from paranoid torrenters to streaming fanatics and frequent international fliers. Its generous server network gives you a lot of connectivity options, plus you’ll find some unique privacy features. Notably, Tor Over VPN servers make boosting your privacy with Tor more user-friendly, double VPN servers are even more private than a standard VPN connection and there's post-quantum encryption across all of its apps.Despite many of its power user amenities, Nord remains intuitive enough for less tech-savvy users. Although its one- and two-year plans are competitively priced at the onset, I was disappointed in Nord’s deceptive price hikes, which seem to contradict the transparency so prevalent throughout the rest of its VPN offerings. That’s not to say you shouldn’t use NordVPN -- you’ll just need to babysit your subscription more so than companies with little to no price hike, such as Surfshark, Proton VPN and Mullvad. Ultimately, NordVPN is fast and full of helpful privacy features, working just as well for streaming buffs and privacy enthusiasts alike.
CNET VPN Coverage
VPN Use Cases
Best VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Free VPN
Best Android VPN
Best Mac VPN
Best Mobile VPN
Best VPN for Windows
Fastest VPN
Best Cheap VPN
Best VPN Deals
VPN Reviews - Our Top Picks
ExpressVPN
Surfshark VPN
NordVPN
Proton VPN
IPVanish
VPN Reviews - Other Services
Hotspot Shield
TunnelBear
CyberGhost
Norton Secure
Mullvad VPN
Streaming with VPN
Best VPN for Smart TV
Best VPN for Firestick
Setup VPN on Smart TV
VPN Travel Hack
Streaming TV Insider
VPN Education
How We Test VPNs
VPN FAQs
Important VPN Terms
VPN and Internet Speed
Why Not to Use a Free VPN
Critical vs Casual VPN
VPN Kill Switch
VPN Trackers
3 Crucial VPN Features
Setup VPN on iPhone
MOE LONG
Senior Editor Moe enjoys making technical content digestible and fun. As a writer and editor for over a decade, he has bylines at MakeUseOf, WhistleOut, TechBeacon, DZone, Tech Up Your Life, and Electromaker. When he's not hammering away at the keyboard, Moe enjoys spending time with his partner and dog, listening to vinyl, and watching film.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.