You can run a Google search directly in Windows now - no browser needed | ZDNET
X
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge
Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025
How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Apple Event September 2025 Buy the iPhone 16 or wait for iPhone 17? Every iPhone 17 model compared Apple iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 16 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs. iPhone 15 Pro iPhone 17 Pro vs iPhone 14 Pro iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge Best iPhone 17, iPhone 17 Air, and iPhone 17 Pro cases 2025 Best iPhone 17 accessories 2025 Should you upgrade to Apple Watch Series 11? Best Apple Watch deals 2025 Best free CRM software 2025 Best CRM software 2025 Best business VoIP services 2025 How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Windows
You can run a Google search directly in Windows now - no browser needed
This floating Google search bar for Windows might be your next big productivity hack. Here's how it works.
Written by
Lance Whitney, ContributorContributor
Sept. 17, 2025 at 6:49 a.m. PT
Screenshot by Lance Whitney/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysYou can now run a Google search directly in Windows.The new Google app for Windows works in Windows 10 and 11.Google Lens is integrated, so you can search on selected text and images.If you're like me, you probably head to Google's search engine on the web several times a day to get information on specific topics. But if you're working in Windows, that means you have to stop what you're doing, fire up your browser, go to Google's search site, and then enter your query. Wouldn't it be quicker and easier if you could do all of that without launching your browser? Well, now you can.A new Google Labs experiment dubbed Google app for Windows can display a floating Google search bar anywhere in Windows. Just type your query in the search field, and the results appear in a scrollable window.Also: Windows 11 lets you run a network speed test right from the taskbar now - how to try itThe window works just like the regular results page. You can move from one page of results to another and narrow down the results by images, shopping, news, videos, and more. You can also jump to Google AI Mode if you want an AI-based synopsis of the results.The new app also taps into Google Lens, which means you can search any text or image on your screen just by selecting it. You're also able to copy the text or image and translate text into a different language.To try this out, head to the Google app for Windows lab page. Flip the switch to turn on the experiment and then click the Download app button to grab the installation file. Double-click the file to install the program and then sign in with your Google account when prompted.A window pops up seeking your permission to access your local files and your files in Google Drive. By default, the app will have access to both locations, but you can disable them if you don't want those files to be included in your search results.Also: I used Google Lens to identify my weirdest junk drawer items - here's how it didWherever you are and whatever you're doing in Windows, just press Alt+Spacebar to trigger the search bar. In the Ask Anything field, type your search query or question, and the results will appear in the window. To turn off the bar, just press Alt+Spacebar again.The Google for Windows app works in Windows 10 and 11 and is currently accessible only in the US. Google cautions that the app is still experimental and has some known limitations. If you want to try this out, don't delay, as Google warns that space is limited.Google Labs is where the company tests out experimental features to see if they'll catch on among users. The Google Labs site has been home to a variety of other tools that you've been able to take for a spin, including the Google Flow filmmaking program, the Music AI Sandbox, the Jules AI coding agent, Little Language Lessons, Career Dreamer, and NotebookLM.Also: I used NotebookLM for an entire month - here's why it really is a game changerMost of the current experiments are AI-oriented. That makes senses since companies like Google want to take advantage of the buzz around AI.But in some ways, AI has been a thorn in Google's side. That's because more people are turning to AI bots like ChatGPT and Copilot to ask questions and research information, an activity for which they would have always turned to Google search in the past.Google needs to make sure that its traditional search engine still remains relevant and popular in the age of AI. Bringing its search directly to Windows is a smart move for the company and one that should also prove handy and helpful to Windows users.Want to follow my work? Add ZDNET as a trusted source on Google.Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Windows 11 lets you run a network speed test right from the taskbar now - how to try it
Follow your favorite sites and creators in Google Discover - now with just one click
Hate Windows 11's vibe? Make it look more like Linux or MacOS - here's how
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use