5 reasons Home Assistant is all you need for your smart home
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
5 reasons Home Assistant is all you need for your smart home
By
Ayush Pande
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Sign in to your XDA account
The sheer number of applications at your disposal is one of the best aspects of the self-hosted ecosystem, and each utility has its own rivals that bring cool features to the table. For private collaboration platforms, you can choose between Nextcloud, ownCloud, and SeaFile, while the password management space is split between Bitwarden and (my personal favorite) Vaultwarden. And I don’t even need to go over the Jellyfin-Plex (and Emby as well, I suppose) debate that’s been raging on for years. However, Home Assistant is an outlier. While there are other applications designed to help you manage your smart home devices and IoT paraphernalia, Home Assistant is easily the crème de la crème for tinkerers with multiple smart gizmos in their living space.
Compatible with most smart home devices
Even more once you start using HACS
With smart devices becoming more affordable each passing day, you’re bound to come across seemingly obscure gadgets from no-name brands that require their own applications. Unfortunately, managing a battalion of smart devices from their own apps can get rather annoying, especially when the applications in question have terrible, poorly laid out interfaces. Luckily, Home Assistant is compatible with multiple smart device manufacturers, ranging from premium brands to their budget-friendly counterparts. And that’s just the bare-bones version of the service. The Home Assistant Community Store adds even more integrations to the mix, and it’s precisely what helped me add some weirdly named smart lights I bought during a sale to my HASS setup.
Terrific automation provisions
Including community-made blueprints
Managing smart devices manually can get rather tiresome after a while. After all, you wouldn’t want to spend all day toggling your smart devices and configuring their settings. That’s where automations come in handy, as they allow you to modify the behavior of your smart home gadgets using pre-configured rules – and it’s an area where Home Assistant excels at. The trigger-action automations inside Home Assistant make it easy for beginners to create complex workflows, though you also have the option to create YAML config files to automate your smart gadgets and IoT products. If you’re still intimidated by automations, Home Assistant also includes several blueprints created by its talented community, and these nifty scripts are tailor-made to help you deploy robust automations.
Customizable dashboards
To showcase (and manage) your arsenal of devices
When you log into Home Assistant for the first time, you’ll be greeted by an empty dashboard. But as you add your smart devices to Home Assistant, you’ll notice that it starts to fill up with a bunch of metrics, and you’ll be able to fine-tune its design to your heart’s content. However, it’s not the only dashboard at your disposal, as Home Assistant lets you create multiple pages where you can organize your smart devices, and this facility is especially useful when you’ve got multiple E-ink screens or LED displays to display your HASS setup. Heck, you don't even have to create these dashboards yourself. The Home Assistant Community Store includes tons of cool dashboards you can arm your HASS setup with – and not just minor theme swaps either. From Floor Plan’s slick UI to the Weather dashboard’s heavy use of graphs, these dashboards can take your Home Assistant’s aesthetics to the next level.
Supports self-hosted LLMs
You can even add voice assistants to the mix
On its own, Home Assistant has a somewhat decent helper agent built into it. But if you’ve got a spare PC with a somewhat decent graphics card, you can put together a self-hosted LLM and pair it with HASS to get a private AI assistant that can respond to your smart home queries. If you’re willing to go even further, you can throw in a microphone, a text-to-voice generator, and a voice-to-text model to build a voice-controlled AI assistant that can not only accept your vocal commands, but also respond to them. Having created this project sometime ago, I can confirm that the add-ons on HAOS (not to be confused with the containerized Home Assistant Core) make this process a cinch. While we’re on the subject of add-ons…
Add-ons for other services
Run your smart home stack directly from HAOS
Besides integrations and blueprints, add-ons are another aspect that makes Home Assistant the king of smart home services, which is kind of ironic, because they let you bring other useful apps to your HASS setup. Frigate is indispensable for surveillance systems, while an MQTT broker like Mosquitto is perfect for controlling IoT devices that use this lightweight protocol to communicate with each other. There’s also Node-RED, which is amazing for tinkering veterans who want a flow-based interface to create complex automations. Thanks to the add-on store, you can deploy these services directly on your Home Assistant host instead of running them on a separate node and pairing them with your HASS setup.
There’s nothing quite like Home Assistant
This post may sound like me gushing about Home Assistant, but the platform deserves all the love. I recently tried using some Home Assistant alternatives to see how they fare against everybody’s favorite smart home management utility. But given their lack of compatibility with obscure smart devices, limited dashboard customization options, and cumbersome automation provisions, I found myself heading back to Home Assistant in less than a week.
Smart Home
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your XDA account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
4 days ago
3 ways I use NotebookLM’s most underrated feature to make research easier than ever
5 days ago
I tried replacing Chrome bookmarks with NotebookLM, and my browser no longer screams chaos
4 days ago
A NAS can replace half of your cloud subscriptions
4 days ago
5 things people over-simplify when it comes to self-hosting
Today's best deals
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
6 hours ago
This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
20 hours ago
This mini PC with an Intel Core i7 is going to blow you away, and it's now $200 off
23 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
Microsoft is finally giving us a handy network diagnostics tool, but not in the way you want
Proxmox Enhanced Configuration Utility is just what I needed for my home lab
Kate is the IDE you needed to replace VS Code
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.