‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing — promises full FPGA-powered backwards compatibility with its new 68080 chip | Tom's Hardware
Skip to main content
Open menu
Close main menu
Tom's Hardware
US EditionUKUSAustraliaCanada
RSS
Sign in
View Profile
Sign out
Search
Search Tom's Hardware
Best Picks
CPUs
GPUs
SSDs
News
Laptops
Premium
Coupons
More
Newsletter
Reviews
PC Components
PC Building
Motherboards
Cases
Cooling
Power Supplies
RAM
Desktops
3D Printers
Peripherals
Monitors
Windows 11
Gaming
Overclocking
About Us
Forums
TrendingIntel+NvidiaBorderlands 4Apple A19 vs Ryzen 9RTX 5090Inside Panther Lake-H
Don't miss these
Retro Gaming
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Retro Gaming
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Retro Gaming
Commodore acquisition completed by fan-led consortium
Retro Gaming
Commodore acquired for a ‘low seven figure’ price
Retro Gaming
After nearly 30 years, Settlers II arrives on Amiga
PC Building
Luxury PC company Maingear launches '90's style Retro95 beige PC
Retro Gaming
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Storage
Remaking a Commodore 64 Datasette from 1982 using 1993 microcassette tech
Artificial Intelligence
Acer unveils Project Digits supercomputer featuring Nvidia's GB10 superchip with 128GB of LPDDR5x
PC Gaming
AMD Threadripper Pro 9995WX can run 400 copies of Doom or eight instances of Crysis simultaneously
Retro Gaming
Faux-CRT monitor designed to pair up with retro mini PCs to recreate CRT feeling
Handheld Gaming
Modder builds gaming handheld powered by an RTX 4090 laptop GPU and Intel i9-14900HX
PC Cases
Rare Apple-1 with storied ownership could fetch over $300,000 at auction
Artificial Intelligence
Apple I replica can run ChatGPT
CPUs
Intel's rumored 'Nova Lake-AX' allegedly packs insane specs but might never launch
Video Games
Retro Gaming
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing — promises full FPGA-powered backwards compatibility with its new 68080 chip
News
By
Mark Tyson
published
20 September 2025
Thirty-one years after Commodore went bankrupt, ceasing development of next-generation Amiga computers, a German Amiga accelerator company steps up.
Comments (5)
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works.
(Image credit: Apollo Computing)
Apollo Computing stepped forward to reveal its “Proper next-gen Amiga” to the masses earlier this week. The German firm has unveiled the Apollo A6000, a comprehensive modern Amiga system featuring advanced technologies, including a “cutting-edge V4 AC68080” FPGA, which makes it the “most powerful Amiga 68k compatible ever created.”Moreover, the Apollo A6000 retains the cutesy retro styling of the Amiga A600 (probably that machine’s best feature), enhanced by eye-popping tech specs and a built-in mechanical keyboard.
Apollo Computer Hack to the Future Amiga Germany 40th Celebration Teaser - YouTube
Watch On
Vintage Amigans may best remember Apollo for its Amiga A1200 trapdoor accelerators, and more recently for Vampire FPGA accelerator boards for a host of legacy Commodore machines. While building up its expertise in the vintage-to-modern FPGA technology arena over the last decade, it appears to have finally reached the milestone of this fully remastered machine, which dovetails with the 40th anniversary of the Amiga.
You may like
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Commodore acquisition completed by fan-led consortium
So, what is the Apollo A6000? We’ll put together a specs table shortly, but the highlights include the aforementioned AC68080 FPGA, the provision of an unheard-of amount of Amiga system RAM (fast RAM and Chip RAM), CF plus dual SD slot storage, the SAGA chipset, and ample modern connectivity and peripheral ports.
More than 404x faster than the A600, which shares a similar style and form factor (Image credit: Apollo Computing)Special attention should be paid to the AC68080 FPGA, which Apollo says they spent 10 years creating. A combination of reverse engineering the Amiga chipset and the Motorola 68000 series of CPUs has led to the development of this processor. There’s actually a website dedicated to it here if you want a super-deep dive on the ‘Apollo Core.’ At that link, you will be able to dig through the details of the features of the fast and fully featured ‘AMMX’ enhanced FPGA.Swipe to scroll horizontallyApollo A6000 specsProcessorV4 AC68080 FPGAChipsetSAGARAM2GB fast RAM, 12MB chip RAMStorage128GB CF card and dual SD card slotsPorts and interfacesHDMI, 5x USB (one for power), Maggie 3D-VFX RTG graphics, Ethernet, mouse, joystick, IDE HDD, stereo audio with optional analog out, JTAG, expansion bayKeyboardMechanical keyboard with ABS caps and Cherry MX switchesSoftware68K Apollo OS installed, which “runs Amiga OS 3.x software, games, Atari and MacOS” titlesCase3D printed FDM case with choice of colors
(Image credit: Apollo Computing)
Apollo Computer V4 A6000 68k Amiga Compatible Computer System Product Reveal - YouTube
Watch On
Unfortunately, we have some bad news to share regarding the Apollo A6000’s pricing and availability. With all those nice custom-made technologies coming together in the A6000, it is priced at over $1,000. In its home country, Apollo sold 40 First Edition Codename Unicorn devices for €960 each within hours of the announcement. Converted directly, that’s $1,128, but you could deduct 19% German VAT and add locally applicable U.S. sales tax to get a better idea of the final actual pricing.The lucky buyers of this first production run of 40 units can look forward to delivery shortly. However, those of us who missed that first run should stay tuned to the links above for news of the next batch(es). On its Discord server, Apollo says details of the subsequent production runs and options will go live on the coming Friday (September 26).Stay On the Cutting Edge: Get the Tom's Hardware NewsletterGet Tom's Hardware's best news and in-depth reviews, straight to your inbox.Contact me with news and offers from other Future brandsReceive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsorsBy submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.Image 1 of 2(Image credit: Apollo Computing)(Image credit: Apollo Computing)You wait 30+ years for a new Amiga...Amiga hardware fans with smaller budgets can also look forward to the A1200 from Retro Games. This full-size Amiga A1200-a-like machine will be fully unveiled in October.Meanwhile, the new owners of Commodore are also thought to be working on a new Amiga-like computer. CEO Peri Fractic teased a collaboration with veteran Amiga engineers and an ambitious product roadmap in an August video bulletin.Follow Tom's Hardware on Google News, or add us as a preferred source, to get our up-to-date news, analysis, and reviews in your feeds. Make sure to click the Follow button!
See all comments (5)
Mark TysonSocial Links NavigationNews EditorMark Tyson is a news editor at Tom's Hardware. He enjoys covering the full breadth of PC tech; from business and semiconductor design to products approaching the edge of reason.
Read more
The Commodore 64 Ultimate computer is the company's first hardware release in over 30 years
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Commodore acquisition completed by fan-led consortium
Commodore acquired for a ‘low seven figure’ price
After nearly 30 years, Settlers II arrives on Amiga
Luxury PC company Maingear launches '90's style Retro95 beige PC
Latest in Retro Gaming
DOOM multiplayer tribute gets coded in 'pure SQL' and runs at 30FPS
Atari Gamestation Go handheld goes up for pre-order
Commodore raked in over $2 million during the new C64 Ultimate's debut week
Full-sized A1200 Amiga remake spotted on display
After nearly 30 years, Settlers II arrives on Amiga
Original Amiga prototype spotted at VCF West 2025 vintage computing show — rarely seen forerunner to Amiga 1000 from early 1984
Latest in News
‘Proper next-gen Amiga’ launched by Apollo Computing
Microsoft Gaming Copilot hits Windows in public beta
AMD relaunches $40 Athlon 3000G CPU with new packaging and cooler
Borderlands 4 props come to 3D printing fans
Microsoft hikes Xbox Series X price, again, to $649
OpenAI is reportedly poaching Apple talent to build its first consumer hardware device
5 Comments
Comment from the forums
erazog
It's impressive what they've done breathing life into the original hardware used by the Amiga and its great to see a modernised 68K CPU and not just another ARM-RISC core but the costs of using an FPGA is very high.
Reply
bit_user
Trying to find out how fast the CPU is. I followed the link to the dedicated website. They mention that it's now 64-bit and a performance figure of 600 MIPS. I also found this discussion thread, which seems to indicate that the 68060 runs at 100 MHz:
http://www.apollo-core.com/knwledge.php?b=2&note=41277
TBH, 100 MHz is a bit lower than I was expecting, but you do take a pretty big performance penalty when using FPGA instead of ASIC.
Reply
JeffreyP55
erazog said:It's impressive what they've done breathing life into the original hardware used by the Amiga and its great to see a modernised 68K CPU and not just another ARM-RISC core but the costs of using an FPGA is very high.I started with the Motorola 68000 A500. Ended with an '040 A3000 and A1200, A4000. Every Amiga sans A1000 in between. Developers jumped ship after Commodore killed what was left of a fine PC. Commodore went on the cheap, scrapping 50 pin SCSI for (Barf!) IDE. Game over, hello PC.
Reply
palladin9479
On the technical side Amiga was pretty amazing for that era, unfortunately all those custom chips and protocols caused it to be very expensive and not compete well against IBM PC clones which all benefited from economies of scale. An ISA card is an ISA card, SIMM memory is SIMM memory, a frame buffer is a frame buffer, basically any manufacturer can build a compatible part for those computers, driving costs down.
I really liked the Amiga and was sad when it died out.
Reply
atomicWAR
I'd had hoped for something a little more significant in the hardware but I am not exactly surprised either with the specs. I'll be interested to see what the new machine can do.
Reply
View All 5 Comments
Show more comments
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Contact Future's experts
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise with us
About us
Coupons
Careers
©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036.