Police seizes $439 million stolen by cybercrime rings worldwide
News
Featured
Latest
GitHub notifications abused to impersonate Y Combinator for crypto theft
Google: Brickstorm malware used to steal U.S. orgs' data for over a year
New EDR-Freeze tool uses Windows WER to suspend security software
SonicWall releases SMA100 firmware update to wipe rootkit malware
New Supermicro BMC flaws can create persistent backdoors
OpenAI is testing a new GPT-5-based AI agent "GPT-Alpha"
Kali Linux 2025.3 released with 10 new tools, wifi enhancements
Tablet meets laptop in this $170 open-box Asus Chromebook deal
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecurityPolice seizes $439 million stolen by cybercrime rings worldwide
Police seizes $439 million stolen by cybercrime rings worldwide
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 24, 2025
11:23 AM
0
In a five-month joint operation led by Interpol, law enforcement agencies have seized more than $439 million in cash and cryptocurrency linked to cyber-enabled financial crimes that impacted thousands of victims worldwide.
Codenamed Operation HAECHI VI, it involved authorities from 40 countries and five continents between April and August 2025.
HAECHI VI targeted a wide range of criminal activities, from voice phishing, investment fraud, e-commerce fraud, and online sextortion to business email compromise, romance scams, and money laundering linked to illegal online gambling.
Throughout this international law enforcement operation, investigators seized 400 cryptocurrency wallets and blocked more than 68,000 associated bank accounts.
Other highlights of this joint operation include the arrest of 45 suspects in Portugal for illegally accessing social security accounts and altering bank details as part of a scheme to divert funds meant to support vulnerable families.
The Royal Thai Police also seized $6.6 million transferred by a high-profile and yet to be named Japanese corporation into accounts controlled by a transnational organized crime group comprising Thai and West African nationals.
"As one of INTERPOL's flagship financial crime operations, HAECHI is a prime example of how global cooperation can protect communities and safeguard financial systems," said Theos Badege, the head of INTERPOL's Financial Crime and Anti-Corruption Centre.
"We encourage more member countries to join us in this collective effort, so that meaningful difference can be made in the fight against cyber-enabled crime."
During the previous stage of this action (dubbed Operation HAECHI V), which took place between July and November 2024, law enforcement seized an additional $400 million and arrested over 5,500 suspects involved in financial crimes.
One year earlier, Operation HAECHI IV resulted in the arrest of more than 3,500 suspects and the seizure of $300 million in illicit proceeds.
Since the start of the year, the Interpol has coordinated other joint actions that disrupted global infostealer malware operations, targeted crime rings that created and distributed child sexual abuse content, and cracked down on cross-border cybercriminal networks.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
Police seize VerifTools fake ID marketplace servers, domainsMassive anti-cybercrime operation leads to over 1,200 arrests in AfricaCanada dismantles TradeOgre exchange, seizes $40 million in cryptoFBI warns of cybercriminals using fake FBI crime reporting portalsU.S. sanctions cyber scammers who stole billions from Americans
Cybercrime
INTERPOL
Law Enforcement
Police
Seizure
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft Entra ID flaw allowed hijacking any company's tenant
Verified Steam game steals streamer's cancer treatment donations
Automaker giant Stellantis confirms data breach after Salesforce hack
Sponsor Posts
Join Huntress Labs to discuss all things tradecraft in a monthly meeting of the technical minds.
See how ransomware evades defenses. Download the Picus Blue Report 2025 today
Automate your Identity Governance & Administration with this free IGA tool for up to 150 users
New webinar: Analyzing real-world ClickFix attacks. Register now.
Target-rich environment: Why Microsoft 365 has become the biggest risk
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT