Caramel Apple Focaccia Recipe: How to Make It
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Caramel Apples
Caramel Apple Muffins
Focaccia
Caramel Apple Cake
Caramel Apple Strudel
Caramel Apple Cheesecake
Caramel Apple Bar
Caramel
Caramel Apple Creme Brulee
Cinnamon Focaccia
Caramelitas
Caramel Apple Coffee Cake
Chocolate Caramel Apples
Gourmet Caramel Apples
Caramel Apple Crisp
Caramel Apple Bread
Focaccia Bread
Caramel Apple Salad
Chocolaty Caramel Apples
Caramel Apple Focaccia Recipe photo by Taste of Home
Home Breads, Rolls & PastriesBread RecipesApple Breads
Caramel Apple Focaccia
Caramel Apple Focaccia Recipe photo by Taste of Home
0 | 0 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 1 hr. + resting Bake: 30 min. + cooling
By
Lauren Habermehl
Recipe by Lauren Habermehl, Pewaukee, Wisconsin
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Sep. 09, 2025
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Caramel apple focaccia bread is a gooey, sweet take on the viral no-knead focaccia trend that's been sweeping the internet.
When it comes to easy, tasty bread recipes, no-knead focaccia bread reigns supreme. This fluffy yeast-risen bread has been a crowd-pleaser for generations. But it’s become increasingly popular in recent years thanks to TikTok recipes showing off the bubbly, jiggly dough transforming into airy golden loaves of wonder. Although focaccia is traditionally savory, sweet renditions have begun to appear—and we could not resist hopping on the bandwagon. This caramel apple focaccia is our take on this latest trend, guaranteed to ready your taste buds for the fall baking season.
This recipe is special for two reasons. First, unlike most focaccia bread recipes, which typically require an overnight rise, this recipe can be baked in one day. Hallelujah! No need to lie awake at night fantasizing about the divine bread you’ll bake the next day. With this recipe, you can start enjoying it in roughly half the time.
Second? The topping, of course! While many focaccia recipes traditionally opt for savory herbs and cheeses like rosemary, garlic or Parmesan, this version dapples the surface of the bread with diced cinnamon apples, fragrant apple butter and turbinado sugar before baking. Once baked, the bread is finished with a generous drizzle of rich caramel sauce and an optional smattering of finely chopped peanuts. The resulting bread is a symphony of satisfying tastes, textures and aromas that will leave you and anyone at your table begging for a second slice. Serve caramel apple focaccia warm as an apple dessert with a scoop of vanilla ice cream or make this the sweet centerpiece to your next fall family brunch.
Ingredients for Caramel Apple Focaccia
Flour: This homemade bread recipe uses a combination of all-purpose and bread flours. Adding bread flour increases the dough’s protein content, improving its strength so that it can bake with an airier, more open crumb structure.
Instant yeast: Using instant yeast allows you to combine all the dough ingredients together in one fell swoop. If you wish to use active dry yeast, combine the yeast with the sugar and water and let the yeast proof for five minutes before adding the remaining ingredients.
Sugar: A bit of sugar in the dough flavors it and helps it brown in the oven. It also aids in the fermentation process by supplying the yeast with food.
Salt: Don’t forget the salt. Salt not only flavors dough but also helps strengthen the network of gluten strands in the dough for structure and stability.
Extra virgin olive oil: Baking a good brand of olive oil right into the dough helps soften the focaccia and make it supremely tender. You’ll also need oil to prep the pan for baking and a little more to keep the dough moist as it rises.
Water: Focaccia contains more water compared to other bread recipes. A wet, loose dough is essential because it contributes to the open crumb structure that this type of bread is known for. The high-hydration dough should be sticky and free-forming even after the mixing stage is complete. This type of dough is also responsible for developing the focaccia’s signature light, airy interior and tender, chewy crust.
Granny Smith apples: We went for Granny Smith apples for this bread recipe since they’re one of the best apples for baking. You could also opt for another variety of apples, such as Honeycrisp, Braeburn or Cortland.
Cinnamon: Cooking the apples in a bit of cinnamon adds an extra layer of flavor and warmth to this special sweet bread recipe.
Butter: For this recipe, the apples are cooked in butter, and more butter is stirred into the apple butter to add richness and moisture to the topping.
Apple butter: Whether you use homemade apple butter or a jar from the store, both will help infuse the focaccia dough with plenty of apple-cinnamon flavor.
Turbinado sugar: Most focaccia recipes are finished with a sprinkle of flake sea salt. In this sweet rendition, we add a bit of turbinado sugar to help the top of the bread brown and create a deliciously sweet layer on the surface of the bread.
Caramel sauce: Choose a jar of caramel sauce from the store or even a can of dulce de leche for added richness. You can also make your own salted caramel sauce, too, if desired.
Chopped peanuts: If you enjoy your caramel apple covered in salty chopped peanuts, then consider adding them to the top of this focaccia bread just before serving to add some contrasting crunch and complementary nutty flavor.
Directions
Step 1: Mix the dough
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, combine the bread flour, all-purpose flour, salt, yeast and sugar. Add the extra virgin olive oil and water, and mix until a rough dough forms and no dry patches remain, one to two minutes. Let the dough rest for five minutes covered with a clean tea towel or storage wrap.
Step 2: Stretch and fold
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Next, perform a series of stretches and folds on the dough. To do this, wet your hands with water, then pinch a section of the dough along the outer edge. Stretch it up and fold it in toward the center of the dough.
Rotate the bowl and repeat the process, working all the way around the circumference of the dough in the bowl, 8 to 10 stretches total. Cover the bowl with the tea towel and rest for three minutes. Repeat the stretch and fold process two more times, for a total of three rounds, resting for three minutes between each round.
Step 3: Let rise
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
After the final round, drizzle the dough lightly with additional olive oil and turn over to coat. Cover with storage wrap and let the dough rise in a warm place for two hours.
Step 4: Shape and rise again
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
When the dough is ready, coat a 13×9-inch pan generously with olive oil and then carefully turn out the dough into the pan. Gently shape the dough into a rough rectangle and then let it rest for 10 minutes to relax. Next, finish shaping the dough, extending it toward the edges and corners of the pan. (It’s OK if it doesn’t reach all the way.) Drizzle lightly with additional olive oil to keep the dough moist, then let the dough rise, uncovered, for two hours until light, puffy and doubled in size.
Editor’s Tip: If your kitchen runs hot, the dough will likely need less time to proof. Check the dough after an hour and then after 90 minutes to ensure the dough doesn’t overproof.
Step 5: Prepare the apple topping
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Toward the end of the second rise, preheat the oven to 450°F. Then, in a small skillet, saute the apples with 1 tablespoon of butter and 1 teaspoon of cinnamon until softened, four to five minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
In a small microwave-safe bowl, add the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter. Microwave for 30 seconds or until completely melted, then stir in the apple butter.
Step 6: Add the topping, dimple and bake
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Drop spoonfuls of the apple butter mixture evenly over the risen dough, and then scatter the diced cinnamon apples over the top.
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Next, using clean, well-oiled fingers, dimple the surface of the dough, pressing the apples and apple butter into the dough to make sure they are evenly distributed. Sprinkle the top with turbinado sugar, then transfer to the oven and bake for 25 to 30 minutes until deeply golden.
Editor’s Tip: Focaccia bread is typically fully baked when it reaches an internal temperature of 200°. Use an instant-read thermometer to monitor the bread as it bakes.
Step 7: Finish with a drizzle of caramel
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Remove from the oven, let cool for five to seven minutes, then drizzle generously with the caramel sauce.
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Sprinkle with chopped peanuts, if desired. Slice and serve while warm.
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
Caramel Apple Focaccia Variations
Use just all-purpose flour: If you don’t keep bread flour in your pantry, you may make this recipe entirely with all-purpose flour. It will bake up just fine, but the bread may be slightly less airy.
Try other fruits: Instead of apples, consider using ripe pears or peaches. Both would yield truly delectable results.
Make loaded caramel apple bread: These days, caramel apples can be dressed up in so many ways. Feel free to add your favorite caramel apple bar toppings to make this focaccia bread recipe your own. Reese’s Pieces, M&M’s, chopped walnuts, or a drizzle of white or dark chocolate ganache would be a great way to finish this bread.
How to Store Caramel Apple Focaccia
Caramel apple focaccia bread should be stored in an airtight food storage container and kept at room temperature.
How long does caramel apple focaccia last?
Focaccia bread has the best taste and texture on the day it’s baked. If you do have leftovers, try to enjoy them within 24 hours. We suggest warming leftover bread in the oven before serving to refresh its texture.
Can you freeze caramel apple focaccia?
Yes! If you want to freeze the bread for later use, bake as directed and then let it cool completely. Don’t add the caramel before freezing. Wrap it tightly in storage wrap, followed by a layer of heavy-duty foil. Freeze it for up to three months. Thaw at room temperature and then bake at 350° on a sheet pan until crisp on the outside and heated through. Drizzle with caramel sauce before serving.
Can you make apple focaccia dough ahead of time?
Yes! If you are trying to work ahead, you can revert to the overnight timeline of classic no-knead focaccia recipes. Our preferred method is to perform an overnight refrigerator rise first, followed by a second rise at room temperature before baking. Mix the dough as directed and then let it ferment in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours or up to two days. Then, on the day you wish to bake, transfer the dough to a prepared pan and let it rise for two to three hours before adding the topping and baking as directed.
Caramel Apple Focaccia Tips
SARAH TRAMONTE FOR TASTE OF HOME
How do you know if apple focaccia is ready to bake?
Perfectly risen focaccia will have doubled in size and be fairly jiggly if you give the pan a little wiggle. You can also gently poke the dough with a finger. Properly proofed dough should leave an indentation that slowly springs back after a moment or two.
Why is my apple focaccia not airy enough?
Many factors influence the airiness of focaccia, so there are plenty of opportunities for common bread-making mistakes along the way. First, you will want to check that your yeast is not expired, as old yeast may not have enough activity to give the dough the proper rise. Second, check to make sure you are measuring accurately. Adding too much flour to the dough or not enough water can lead to focaccia bread that is dry, tough or dense. For best results, use a food scale.
Finally, make sure the dough has risen properly. Depending on the temperature of your home, you may need to increase or decrease the rise time slightly to ensure the dough is not over- or under-proofed.
What is the best pan for baking apple focaccia bread?
For the best taste and texture, use a metal, nonstick 13×9-inch baking pan to bake focaccia. This will ensure the bread achieves the right color and texture. We do not recommend using a glass pan, as they are more prone to sticking and do not conduct heat as well as metal pans.
Can you halve the recipe for caramel apple focaccia bread?
Yes! If you are baking for a smaller crowd, you can halve this recipe and bake it in an 8×8-inch or 9×9-inch pan instead. Alternatively, use the measurements in the original recipe and divide the dough into two 8×8 or 9×9 baking pans. Enjoy one fresh and freeze the other one for future enjoyment.
Test Kitchen Approved
Caramel Apple Focaccia
0 | 0 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:24 servings
Prep:1 hour
Cook:30 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
2-1/2 cups bread flour
2-1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons salt
2 teaspoons quick-rise yeast
1 teaspoon sugar
2-1/4 cups warm water (110° to 115°)
2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil plus more for greasing
3 tablespoons butter, divided
3 medium Granny Smith apples, peeled and diced
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/3 cup apple butter
1 tablespoon turbinado (washed raw) sugar
1/2 cup caramel sauce
1/4 cup chopped unsalted peanuts, optional
Text Ingredients
Directions
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook, combine flours, salt, yeast, and sugar. Add water and olive oil; mix until a rough dough forms and no dry patches remain, 1-2 minutes. Cover; let rest for 5 minutes.
Perform a series of stretches and folds on the dough. Wet your hands; pinch a section of the dough along the outer edge. Stretch it up and fold it in towards the center of the dough. Rotate the bowl; repeat the process, working all the way around the circumference of the dough in the bowl, about 8-10 stretches total. Cover; let rest 3 minutes. Repeat the stretch and fold process 2 more times, for a total of 3 rounds, resting 3 minutes between the rounds. Drizzle dough lightly with additional olive oil; turn over to coat. Cover with plastic wrap; let rise in a warm place for 2 hours.
Coat a 13x9-in. baking sheet with olive oil; carefully turn the dough out onto the pan. Gently shape into a rough rectangle; let rest 10 minutes. Finish shaping the dough, extending it toward the edges and corners of the pan.
Drizzle lightly with olive oil to keep the dough moist; let rise, uncovered, until doubled in size, about 2 hours.
Towards the end of the rise, preheat oven to 450°F.
In a small skillet, heat 1 tablespoon butter over medium heat. Add apples and cinnamon; cook until softened, 4-5 minutes. Remove from heat; set aside.
In a small microwave-safe bowl, microwave remaining 2 tablespoons butter 30 seconds or until melted; stir in apple butter. Drop spoonfuls of apple butter mixture evenly over the risen dough; scatter apples on top.
With well-oiled fingers, dimple the surface of the dough, pressing apples and apple butter into the dough to evenly distribute. Sprinkle top with turbinado sugar; bake 25-30 minutes or until deeply golden brown.
Let cool 5-7 minutes; drizzle generously with caramel sauce. Sprinkle with chopped peanuts, if desired. Slice; serve while warm.
Nutrition Facts
1 serving: 185 calories, 6g fat (2g saturated fat), 4mg cholesterol, 228mg sodium, 29g carbohydrate (7g sugars, 1g fiber), 4g protein.
Author
Lauren Habermehl
Often found with a spoon in one hand and a pen in the other, Lauren is a recipe developer, food photographer and the creator of the blog, Frydae. From homestyle comfort food classics to carefully recreated copycat recipes, Lauren’s aim as a writer at Taste of Home is to go beyond ingredients and techniques to celebrate the people behind the dishe...
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This caramel apple focaccia bread is light and fluffy on the inside and perfectly crisp on the outside. It's crowned with cinnamon apples and gooey caramel, making it the perfect treat after picking apples at your local orchard. —Lauren Habermehl, Pewaukee, Wisconsin
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box