One, Big, Beautiful Bill provisions | Internal Revenue Service
Skip to main content
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A lock
()
or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
English
Español中文 (简体)中文 (繁體)한국어РусскийTiếng ViệtKreyòl ayisyen
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
Search
Sign in
Menu
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Main navigation
File
Overview
INFORMATION FOR…
Individuals
Business and self-employed
Charities and nonprofits
International filers
Retirement
Governments and tax-exempt bonds
Indian Tribal Governments
FILING FOR INDIVIDUALS
How to file
When to file
Where to file
Update your information
POPULAR
Tax record (transcript)
Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)
Amend return
Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN)
File your taxes for free
Pay
Overview
PAY BY
Bank Account (Direct Pay)
Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)
Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)
POPULAR
Your Online Account
Tax Withholding Estimator
Estimated Taxes
Penalties
Refunds
Overview
Where’s My Refund?
Direct deposit
Where’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
Overview
INFORMATION FOR...
Individuals
For you and your family
Businesses & Self-Employed
Standard mileage and other information
POPULAR
Earned Income Credit (EITC)
Child Tax Credit
Clean Energy and Vehicle Credits
Standard Deduction
Retirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
Overview
POPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONS
Form 1040
Individual Income Tax Return
Form 1040 Instructions
Instructions for Form 1040
Form W-9
Request for Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) and Certification
Form 4506-T
Request for Transcript of Tax Return
Form W-4
Employee's Withholding Certificate
Form 941
Employer's Quarterly Federal Tax Return
Form W-2
Wage and Tax Statement
Form 9465
Installment Agreement Request
POPULAR FOR TAX PROS
Form 1040-X
Amended Individual Income Tax Return
Form 2848
Power of Attorney
Form W-7
Apply for an ITIN
Circular 230
Regulations Governing Practice before the IRS
Search
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Include Historical Content
- Any -No
Search
Information Menu
Help
News
Tax Pros
Sign in
File
OverviewINFORMATION FOR…IndividualsBusiness and self-employedCharities and nonprofitsInternational filersRetirementGovernments and tax-exempt bondsIndian Tribal GovernmentsFILING FOR INDIVIDUALSHow to fileWhen to fileWhere to fileUpdate your informationPOPULARTax record (transcript)Apply for an Employer ID Number (EIN)Amend returnIdentity Protection PIN (IP PIN)File your taxes for free
Pay
OverviewPAY BYBank Account (Direct Pay)Payment Plan (Installment Agreement)Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)POPULARYour Online AccountTax Withholding EstimatorEstimated TaxesPenalties
Refunds
OverviewWhere’s My Refund?Direct depositWhere’s My Amended Return?
Credits & Deductions
OverviewINFORMATION FOR...IndividualsBusinesses & Self-EmployedPOPULAREarned Income Credit (EITC)Child Tax CreditClean Energy and Vehicle CreditsStandard DeductionRetirement Plans
Forms & Instructions
OverviewPOPULAR FORMS & INSTRUCTIONSForm 1040Form 1040 InstructionsForm W-9Form 4506-TForm W-4Form 941Form W-2Form 9465POPULAR FOR TAX PROSForm 1040-XForm 2848Form W-7Circular 230
Main navigation
File
Pay
Refunds
Credits & Deductions
Forms & Instructions
Info Menu Mobile
Charities & Nonprofits
Help
News
Tax Pros
HomeNews
One, Big, Beautiful Bill provisions
One, Big, Beautiful Bill provisions
More In News
Topics in the news
News releases
Multimedia center
Tax relief in disaster situations
One Big Beautiful Bill Act
Inflation Reduction Act
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
Taxpayer First Act
Tax scams and consumer alerts
The tax gap
Fact sheets
IRS Tax Tips
e-News subscriptions
IRS guidance
Media contacts
IRS statements and announcements
The One, Big, Beautiful Bill has a significant effect on federal taxes, credits and deductions. It was signed into law on July 4, 2025, as Public Law 119-21.
These provisions go into effect in 2025:
Income tax relief and deductions
No tax on tips (Sec. 70201)
New deduction: Effective for 2025 through 2028, employees and self-employed individuals may deduct qualified tips received in occupations listed by the IRS as customarily and regularly receiving tips on or before December 31, 2024, and that are reported on a Form W-2, Form 1099, or other specified statement furnished to the individual or reported directly by the individual on Form 4137.
“Qualified tips” are voluntary cash or charged tips received from customers or through tip sharing
Maximum annual deduction is $25,000; for self-employed, deduction may not exceed individual’s net income (without regard to this deduction) from the trade or business in which the tips were earned.
Deduction phases out for taxpayers with modified adjusted gross income over $150,000 ($300,000 for joint filers)
Taxpayer eligibility: Deduction is available for both itemizing and non-itemizing taxpayers. Self-employed individuals in a Specified Service Trade or Business (SSTB) under section 199A are not eligible. Employees whose employer is in an SSTB also are not eligible. Taxpayers must:
Include their Social Security number on the return
File jointly if married, to claim the deduction
Reporting: Employers and other payors must file information returns with the IRS (or SSA) and furnish statements to taxpayers showing certain cash tips received and the occupation of the tip recipient.
Guidance: By Oct. 2, 2025, the IRS must publish a list of occupations that “customarily and regularly” received tips on or before Dec. 31, 2024.
The IRS will provide transition relief for tax year 2025 for taxpayers claiming the deduction and for employers and payors subject to the new reporting requirements.
No tax on overtime (Sec. 70202)
New deduction: Effective for 2025 through 2028, individuals who receive qualified overtime compensation may deduct the pay that exceeds their regular rate of pay (such as the “half” portion of “time-and-a-half” compensation) that is required by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and reported on a Form W-2, Form 1099, or other specified statement furnished to the individual.
Maximum annual deduction is $12,500 ($25,000 for joint filers).
Deduction phases out for taxpayers with modified adjusted gross income over $150,000 ($300,000 for joint filers).
Taxpayer eligibility: Deduction is available for both itemizing and non-itemizing taxpayers.
Taxpayers must:
Include their Social Security number on the return and
File jointly if married, to claim the deduction.
Reporting: Employers and other payors are required to file information returns with the IRS (or SSA) and furnish statements to taxpayers showing the total amount of qualified overtime compensation paid during the year.
Guidance: The IRS will provide transition relief for tax year 2025 for taxpayers claiming the deduction and for employers and other payors subject to the new reporting requirements.
No tax on car loan interest (Sec. 70203)
New deduction: Effective for 2025 through 2028, individuals may deduct interest paid on a loan used to purchase a qualified vehicle, provided the vehicle is purchased for personal use and meets other eligibility criteria. (Lease payments do not qualify.)
Maximum annual deduction is $10,000.
Deduction phases out for taxpayers with modified adjusted gross income over $100,000 ($200,000 for joint filers).
Qualified interest: To qualify for the deduction, the interest must be paid on a loan that is:
Originated after December 31, 2024
Used to purchase a vehicle originally used by the taxpayer (used vehicles do not qualify)
For a personal use vehicle (not for business or commercial use)
Secured by a lien on the vehicle
If a qualifying vehicle loan is later refinanced, interest paid on the refinanced amount is generally eligible for the deduction.
Qualified vehicle: A qualified vehicle is a car, minivan, van, SUV, pick-up truck or motorcycle, with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than 14,000 pounds, and that has undergone final assembly in the United States.
To determine if a vehicle had final assembly in the U.S., check one of these:
The information label attached to the vehicle on a dealer's premises
The vehicle identification number (VIN)
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) VIN Decoder
Taxpayer eligibility: Deduction is available for both itemizing and non-itemizing taxpayers. The taxpayer must include the vehicle identification number (VIN) of the vehicle on the tax return for any year when the deduction is claimed.
Reporting: Lenders or other recipients of qualified interest must file information returns with the IRS and furnish statements to taxpayers showing the total amount of interest received during the taxable year.
Guidance: The IRS will provide transition relief for tax year 2025 for interest recipients subject to the new reporting requirements.
Deduction for Seniors (Sec. 70103)
New deduction: Effective for 2025 through 2028, individuals who are age 65 and older may claim an additional deduction of $6,000. This new deduction is in addition to the current additional standard deduction for seniors under existing law.
The $6,000 senior deduction is per eligible individual (or $12,000 total for a married couple where both spouses qualify).
Deduction phases out for taxpayers with modified adjusted gross income over $75,000 ($150,000 for joint filers).
Qualifying taxpayers: The taxpayer must attain age 65 on or before the last day of the taxable year.
Taxpayer eligibility: Deduction is available for both itemizing and non-itemizing taxpayers.
Taxpayers must:
Include the Social Security number of the qualifying individual(s) on the return
File jointly, if married, to claim the deduction
Related
Treasury, IRS issue FAQs to address the accelerated termination of several energy provisions under OBBB
FAQs for modification of sections 25C, 25D, 25E, 30C, 30D, 45L, 45W, AND 179D under Public Law 119-21, 139 Stat. 72 (July 4, 2025), commonly known as the One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act
One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act: Tax deductions for working Americans and seniors
IRS announces no changes to individual information returns or withholding tables for 2025 under the One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act
Page Last Reviewed or Updated: 15-Sep-2025
ShareFacebookTwitterLinkedinPrint
Footer Navigation
Our Agency
About IRS
Careers
Operations and Budget
Tax Statistics
Help
Find a Local Office
Know Your Rights
Taxpayer Bill of Rights
Taxpayer Advocate Service
Independent Office of Appeals
Civil Rights
FOIA
No FEAR Act Data
Reliance on Guidance
Resolve an Issue
IRS Notices and Letters
Identity Theft
Tax scams
Tax Fraud
Criminal Investigation
Whistleblower Office
Languages
Español
中文 (简体)
中文 (繁體)
한국어
Pусский
Tiếng Việt
Kreyòl ayisyen
English
Other Languages
Related Sites
U.S. Treasury
Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration
USA.gov
USAspending.gov
Vote.gov
Subfooter
Privacy Policy
Accessibility