My new favorite PC accessory has infinite battery life and a host of productivity features | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Education
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Education
Computers & Tech
My new favorite PC accessory has infinite battery life and a host of productivity features
The Slim Solar+ keyboard is powered by exposure to normal indoor lighting and can be wirelessly connected to three different devices at once.
Written by
Kyle Kucharski, EditorEditor
Sept. 25, 2025 at 6:51 a.m. PT
Logitech Signature Slim Solar+ Keyboard
ZDNET's key takeaways Logitech's Slim Solar keyboard is available now for $99.It's wireless and light-powered, pairs with three devices at once, and has customizable action keys.It's ultimately a pretty standard keyboard, and the "laptop-style" design might feel too shallow for some users. View now at Amazon Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Logitech's latest keyboard is about as easy as you can get. It's wireless, universally compatible, and has no removable batteries or charging ports -- generating its own power through light.The Signature Slim Solar+ is a full-sized keyboard that couldn't be easier to set up, and "just works" indefinitely after that, with no input from the user about battery levels. Sure, similar products already exist, like Logitech's K750 solar keyboard, but the Slim Solar+ lives up to its name as a sleeker -- and more affordable at $99 -- option with the home office in mind. Also: This split keyboard offers deep customization - if you're willing to go all inI installed the Slim Solar keyboard in my home office for a few weeks, and was sold on its ease of use, especially for swapping between my work and personal computers. But for those seeking a customizable keyboard, the Logi Options+ app make it as personalized as it is practical.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Logitech Signature Slim Solar+ keyboard The Slim Solar+ keyboard couldn't be easier to use with no charging and no cables.
details
View at Amazon As its name implies, the Signature Slim Solar+ keyboard is light powered, but it doesn't need sunlight specifically. The keyboard absorbs ambient light through the strip along the top of the device, which powers it passively, generating the power it needs with the light available in your office or home. This also means you don't need to stick the keyboard under a spotlight to generate enough power; "normal" lighting conditions work just fine, including the overhead fluorescents in the office. Unlike other solar keyboard models on the market, the strip is discreet and well-designed, adding little to its overall shape.Also: This 2-in-1 Windows laptop has no business being this good (especially at this price)That doesn't mean it can't run out of juice, though. Logitech says that if it were used in total darkness, it would eventually die after about four months of not getting any light.
During a briefing, when pressed about the details of how much light is enough, a Logitech rep told me that you'd have to be using it extensively in very dim lighting for it to lose more power than it can generate. Ultimately, this means normal conditions are more than enough to keep the device powered, so it's one less thing to charge. Logitech says the solar battery will last up to 10 years, giving the keyboard a competitive lifetime for the $99 price point.
Kyle Kucharski/ZDNETAt 16 inches long and 1.5 pounds, it's available in black or white and otherwise a rather standard looking full-sized keyboard. The keys are designed to be universal, with labeling that works for not only just Windows and MacOS, but ChromeOS as well. It follows suit with Logitech's MX line of keyboards with a utilitarian but well-designed aesthetic. Logitech advertises the Slim Solar+ as "laptop style" in that it doesn't have extensive key travel and features a flatter design, which of course, won't be for everyone. Although the board stays stationary and doesn't feel flimsy, it's still a much thinner and lighter frame than a heavier, more premium keyboard. Also: 5 things I love about MacOS 26 Tahoe after one week with it on my MacI've been using it with both my work laptop and personal PC, and it's comfortable to type on, with a satisfying, slightly textured finish and large keys. It also features a handful of extra "pebble keys" that extend all the way to the right, allowing you to swap connections with the "easy-switch" keys -- letting you use one keyboard for multiple computers.The accompanying app, Logi Options+ lets users fully customize the function keys and remap to their preferences, but it's not required, as the Bluetooth connection makes it expressly plug and play.
The app highlights the customizable keys where you can set up your own actions, supporting some rather complex sequences like opening a new tab in the browser, and navigating to a specific website. This tutorial video, for example, shows how you can open Netflix with the press of a single button -- and this sequence is pre-loaded in the app as "Netflix Break." Cute.Also: I pack this portable workstation whenever I travel - here's why it's worth the bag spaceUltimately, though, the majority of users probably won't interact with the customization beyond a few different setups. The default mappings for each of the action keys (Calculator, Mute mic, Mute video, and computer lock) are probably some of the most useful, anyway. There are three different versions of the Signature Slim Solar+ keyboard, the $99 universal multi-OS version, a MacOS-specific one (in white), and a $109 version for enterprise customers. Best best all-in-one computers deals of the week
Dell 24 All-in-One Intel 7 1TB SSD 16GB RAM Touch Desktop:  $1,000 (save $200)
Dell 27 All-in-One Intel 7 MX570A 1TB SSD 16GB RAM Touch Desktop:  $1,130 (save $250)
Lenovo IdeaCentre Ryzen 5 512GB SSD 16GB RAM 24-inch AIO Touch Desktop:  $650 (save $210)
HP All-in-One 24 Ryzen 3 512GB SSD 8GB RAM Desktop:  $600 (save $200)
HP All-in-One 27 Intel Ultra 7 512GB SSD 16GB RAM Touch Desktop:  $900 (save $400) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
ZDNET's buying adviceLogitech excels at creating practical products that eschew flashy design elements for usability over time. The Signature Slim Solar+ keyboard is a perfect example of this, as you can't get more practical than a device that's wireless and doesn't require active charging. At $99 for the standard universal version, I definitely recommend it for anyone who wants to use one keyboard for multiple computers and appreciates the sleek, wireless design. Also: The best mechanical keyboards of 2025: I handpicked the top models availableThe "laptop style" keyboard, however might feel a bit shallow for some users, and the overall design of the Slim Solar+ is a pretty standard affair. If you're looking for a mechanical keyboard with extensive key travel, Logitech's MX Mechanical is likely more up your alley. If you want a fully mechanical keyboard with RGB lighting and gaming in mind, check out Cherry's Xtrify MX.Featured reviews
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
I tested the iPhone 17 Pro Max, and here's one big reason for a year-over-year upgrade
I tested the Samsung S95F OLED for a week, and I'm ready to give up my living room TV
Why I put my Bose QuietComfort Ultra away shortly after trying these headphones
Which Apple Watch should you buy in 2025? I tested every model, and here's my verdict
Editorial standards
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use