South African Communist Party - Wikipedia
Jump to content
Main menu
Main menu
move to sidebar
hide
Navigation
Main pageContentsCurrent eventsRandom articleAbout WikipediaContact us
Contribute
HelpLearn to editCommunity portalRecent changesUpload fileSpecial pages
Search
Search
Appearance
Donate
Create account
Log in
Personal tools
Donate Create account Log in
Pages for logged out editors learn more
ContributionsTalk
Contents
move to sidebar
hide
(Top)
1
History
Toggle History subsection
1.1
Fight against apartheid
1.2
Post-apartheid
2
General secretaries
3
National chairperson
4
Prominent members of the Central Committee of the SACP
5
Veterans' category
6
See also
7
Literature
8
References
9
External links
Toggle the table of contents
South African Communist Party
31 languages
AfrikaansБеларускаяCatalàDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoമലയാളംNederlandsNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSicilianuSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнська中文
Edit links
ArticleTalk
English
ReadEditView history
Tools
Tools
move to sidebar
hide
Actions
ReadEditView history
General
What links hereRelated changesUpload filePermanent linkPage informationCite this pageGet shortened URLDownload QR code
Print/export
Download as PDFPrintable version
In other projects
Wikimedia CommonsWikidata item
Appearance
move to sidebar
hide
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Political party in South Africa
South African Communist Party ChairpersonBlade NzimandeGeneral SecretarySolly Afrika MapailaFirst Deputy General SecretaryMadala MasukuSecond Deputy General SecretaryDavid MasondoFounded12 February 1921; 104 years ago (1921-02-12)Preceded byInternational Socialist LeagueHeadquarters4th FloorCosatu House110 Jorissen StreetJohannesburgGauteng[1]NewspaperUmsebenziYouth wingYoung Communist League of South AfricaMembership (2015) 220,000[2]IdeologyCommunismMarxism–Leninism[3]Political positionFar-leftNational affiliationTripartite AllianceInternational affiliationIMCWPRegional affiliationAfrica Left Networking ForumColours  Red  Black  YellowParty flagWebsitewww.sacp.org.zaPolitics of South AfricaPolitical partiesElections
The South African Communist Party (SACP) is a communist party in South Africa. It was founded on 12 February 1921 as the Communist Party of South Africa (CPSA), and tactically dissolved itself in 1950 in the face of being declared illegal by the governing National Party under the Suppression of Communism Act, 1950. The Communist Party was reconstituted underground and re-launched as the SACP in 1953, participating in the struggle to end the apartheid system. It is a member of the ruling Tripartite Alliance alongside the African National Congress and the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU) and through this it influences the South African government. The party's Central Committee is the party's highest decision-making structure. Although the party has not left the Tripartite Alliance, the SACP has announced its intention to break with the ANC and run its own candidates in the 2026 local elections, following the ANC's decision to enter a unity government with right-wing parties.[4][5][6]
History[edit]
The Communist Party of South Africa was founded in 1921 by the joining together of the International Socialist League and others under the leadership of William H. Andrews. It first came to prominence during the Rand Rebellion, a strike by white miners in 1922. The large mining concerns, facing labour shortages and wage pressures, had announced their intention of engaging blacks in semi-skilled and some higher-level jobs at low wage rates, compared to their white counterparts who enjoyed the monopoly of higher and well-paying occupations. The CPSA supported the strike as the struggle between the working class and the capitalist class, but it distanced itself from racist slogans associated with the strike.[7] The party said in the statement a white South Africa was impossible, and all the workers had to organise and unite regardless of their race to fight for a non-racial South Africa and better conditions for all workers.
The party thus reoriented itself at its 1924 Party Congress towards organising black workers and "Africanising" the party. By 1928, 1,600 of the party's 1,750 members were black. In the same year, the Communist International adopted a resolution for the CPSA to adopt the "Native Republic" thesis, which stipulated that South Africa is a country belonging to the natives, that is, the Indigenous Black population, and that most of South Africa's revolutionary potential laid with them. The resolution was influenced by a delegation from South Africa. James la Guma, the party Chairperson from Cape Town, had met with the leadership of the Communist International.[8]
Contemporary scholars have argued that the party dismissed competing attempts at multiracial revolutionary organisations during this period, especially multiracial union organising by the syndicalists, and used revisionist history to claim that the party and its Native Republic policy was the only viable route to African liberation.[9] Despite this, in 1929 the party adopted a "strategic line" which held that, "The most direct line of advance to socialism runs through the mass struggle for majority rule". By 1948, the Communist Party had officially abandoned the Native Republic policy.
In 1946, the CPSA along with the African National Congress participated in the general strike that was started by the African Mine Workers' Strike in 1946. Many party members, such as Bram Fischer, were arrested.
Fight against apartheid[edit]
Further information: Soviet Union-Africa relations § South Africa
Aware that the National Party, elected to government in 1948, was about to ban the Communist Party, the CPSA decided by a majority to dissolve itself. A minority felt that the party should organise underground, but the majority apparently argued that this would be unnecessary, believing that support should be given to the African National Congress (ANC) in the drive to majority rule. After its voluntary dissolution, the CPSA was declared illegal in 1950. In 1953, a group of former CPSA members launched the South African Communist Party that remained — as had been the CPSA — aligned with the Soviet Union. The ban on the party was lifted in 1990 when the ANC and other anti-apartheid organisations and individuals were also unbanned, and African National Congress leader Nelson Mandela was released from prison.[10]
The CPSA/SACP was a particular target of the governing National Party. The Suppression of Communism Act was used against all those dedicated to ending apartheid, but was obviously particularly targeted at the communists.[citation needed]
Following the dissolution and subsequent banning of the CPSA, former party members and, after 1953, members of the SACP adopted a policy of primarily working within the ANC in order to reorient that organisation's programme from a nationalist policy akin to the CPSA's former Native Republic policy towards a non-racial programme which declared that all ethnic groups residing in South Africa had equal rights to the country. While black members of the SACP were encouraged to join the ANC and seek leadership positions within that organisation, many of its white leading members formed the Congress of Democrats which in turn allied itself with the African National Congress and other "non-racial" congresses in the Congress Alliance on the basis of multi-racialism. The Congress Alliance committed itself to a democratic, non-racial South Africa where the "people shall govern" through the Freedom Charter. The Freedom Charter was adopted by the ANC, the SACP and other partners in the Alliance in accordance with its evolution. The Charter has since remained the cornerstone of the Alliance, as its basic, shared programme to advance a national democratic revolution, both a process of struggle and transformation to achieve a non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa.[citation needed]
The SACP played a role in the development of the Freedom Charter through its cadres who were openly active in the Congress Alliance and in the Party's underground organisation. In the same vein the Party played an important role in the evolution of the Alliance and the development of the liberation movement in South Africa.[citation needed]
As the National Party increased repression in response to increased black pressure and radicalism throughout the 1950's the ANC, previously committed to non-violence, turned towards the question of force. A new generation of leaders, led by Nelson Mandela and Walter Sisulu recognised that the Nationalists were certain to ban the ANC and so make peaceful protest all but impossible.[citation needed]
They allied themselves with the communists to form Umkhonto we Sizwe ("Spear of the Nation") which began a campaign of terror by bombing civilian targets like shopping malls and restaurants.[11][12][13] However the leaders of Umkhonto were soon arrested and jailed and the liberation movement was left weak and with an exiled leadership. Communist Joe Slovo was Chief of Staff of Umkhonto; his wife and fellow SACP cadre Ruth First was perhaps the leading theoretician of the revolutionary struggle the ANC were engaged in. The ANC itself, though, remained broadly social democratic in outlook.[14]
In exile, communist nations provided the ANC with funding and firearms. Gradual work by the ANC slowly rebuilt the organisation inside South Africa, and the ANC was able to capitalise on the wave of anger amongst young South Africans during and after the Soweto uprising of 1976.[citation needed]
Eventually external pressures and internal ferment made even many strong supporters of apartheid recognise that change had to come and a long process of negotiations began which resulted, in 1994, in the defeat of the National Party after forty-six years of rule.[citation needed]
Post-apartheid[edit]
With victory a number of communists occupied prominent positions on the ANC benches in parliament. Most prominently, Nelson Mandela appointed Joe Slovo as Minister for Housing. This period also brought new strains in the ANC-SACP alliance when the ANC's programme did not threaten the existence of capitalism in South Africa and was heavily reliant on foreign investment and tourism. However, the Freedom Charter had been considered only as a blueprint for a future democratic and free South Africa. In his autobiography Long Walk to Freedom, Nelson Mandela famously remarked:
"The cynical have always suggested that the Communists were using us. But who is to say that we were not using them?"[15]
After Mandela's death in 2013, the ANC confirmed that he had been a member of the SACP and served on its central committee.[16]
On July 30, 2011 the SAPC celebrated its 90th anniversary.
Through the Tripartite Alliance and the sitting of many SACP members on the ANC's NEC, the SACP has wielded influence from within the ANC, often serving as an ideological opposition against the presidency and socio-economic policies of Thabo Mbeki (1999–2008); this became most apparent with the ouster of Mbeki from the presidencies of both the party (2007, by vote) and the government (2008, by ANC party recall) and his eventual replacement in both offices with Jacob Zuma, who was widely seen as being more conciliatory to the ideological demands of both the SACP and COSATU.
Initially, the party did not contest elections under its own name. However, in December 2017, the party contested a number of local council by-elections in Metsimaholo Local Municipality in the Free State, failing to win any first-past-the-post ward seats, but gaining three proportional representation seats. In total the SACP received 3,270 votes (6,3%).[17][18]
In his address to the 2015 Biennial National Conference of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies, South African President Jacob Zuma credited South African Jews for being "among the first to organise the South African working class" as some Jewish activists occupied leading positions within the Communist Party.[19]
In December 2024, the party decided to contest local elections, including the upcoming 2026 South African municipal elections, under its own name.[20]
In July 2025, the party received 1% of the vote in its first election following the decision, finishing third in Polokwane ward 13.[21]
General secretaries[edit]
1921: William H. Andrews
1925: Jimmy Shields
1929: Douglas Wolton[22]
1929: Albert Nzula[23]
1932: J. B. Marks[23]
1933: Moses Kotane[23]
1936: Edwin Thabo Mofutsanyana[23]
1938: Moses Kotane[23]
1978: Moses Mabhida
1984: Joe Slovo
1991: Chris Hani
1993: Charles Nqakula
1998: Blade Nzimande
2022: Solly Afrika Mapaila
National chairperson[edit]
1921: William H. Andrews[23]
1925: Sidney Bunting[23]
1931: Douglas Wolton[23]
1933: Lazar Bach[23]
1935: Issie Wolfson[23]
1939: William H. Andrews[23]
1953: Bram Fischer[24]
2007: Gwede Mantashe
2017: Senzeni Zokwana
2022: Blade Nzimande
Prominent members of the Central Committee of the SACP[edit]
Michael Harmel
Moses Kotane
J. B. Marks
Bram Fischer
Jeremy Cronin
Ruth First
Chris Hani
Ronnie Kasrils
David Ivon Jones
Mac Maharaj
Nelson Mandela
Govan Mbeki
Thabo Mbeki
Raymond Mhlaba
Joe Slovo
Yusuf Dadoo
Blade Nzimande
Sechaba "Charles" Setsubi
Rob Davies
George Mashamba
Mfengu Makhalima
Brian Bunting
Kay Moonsamy
John Nkadimeng
Esther Barsel
Charles Nqakula
Judy Malqueeny
Thenjiwe Mtintso
John Gomomo
Veterans' category[edit]
Sydney Mufamadi
Charles Nqakula
Essop Pahad
David Niddrie
David Ivon Jones - founding member of the South African Communist Party
See also[edit]
List of communist parties
African Communist
Central Committee of the South African Communist Party
Literature[edit]
Raising the Red Flag. The International Socialist League & the Communist Party of South Africa 1914 - 1932 by Sheridan Johns. Mayibuye History and Literature Series No. 49. Mayibuye Books. University of the Western Cape, Bellville. 1995. ISBN 1-86808-211-3.
Time Longer Than Rope by Edward Roux. The University of Wisconsin Press. Madison, Wisconsin. 1964. ISBN 978-0-299-03204-3.
References[edit]
^ "Offices | South African Communist Party (SACP)". www.sacp.org.za. Retrieved 7 April 2023.
^ Kotze, Dirk. "Why communism appears to be gaining favour in South Africa". The Conversation. Archived from the original on 22 December 2017. Retrieved 19 December 2017.
^ "Constitution". South African Communist Party. Archived from the original on 4 November 2018. Retrieved 17 April 2020.
^ Njilo, Nonkululeko (6 January 2025). "SACP firm on contesting elections independently, despite Ramaphosa plea". Daily Maverick. Retrieved 21 March 2025.
^ Goba, Thabiso. "SACP resolves to contest all municipalities in 2026 local govt elections". EWN. Retrieved 21 March 2025.
^ Rudin, Jeff (20 January 2025). "The SA Communist Party takes itself by surprise (Part One)". Daily Maverick. Retrieved 21 March 2025.
^ "Public Statement on the strike," issued by the CPSA on the occasion of the strike in 1922. South African Communists Speak (Inkululeko, 1981) contains this and other documents from the History of the South African Communist Party, 1915-1980.
^ Dr. Raymond van Diemel. "I have seen the new Jerusalem": Revisiting and re-conceptualising Josiah T. Gumede and Jimmy La Guma's USSR visit of 1927 (2001)
^ Cole, Peter; van der Walt, Lucien (January 2011). "Crossing the Color Lines, Crossing the Continents: Comparing the Racial Politics of the IWW in South Africa and the United States, 1905–1925" (PDF). Safundi: The Journal of South African and American Studies. 12 (1): 69–96. Archived (PDF) from the original on 4 October 2011. Retrieved 27 December 2016.
^ Ellis, Stephen (1992). "The South African Communist Party and the Collapse of the Soviet Union". Journal of Communist Studies and Transition Politics. 8. hdl:1887/9047.
^ "Car Bomb Kills Two Black Men, Injures 42 Others". AP NEWS. Retrieved 18 February 2023.
^ "Amanzimtoti blast kills five | South African History Online". www.sahistory.org.za. Retrieved 18 February 2023.
^ Pillay, Kamcilla. "Magoo's Bar Bombing: Durban remembers". Retrieved 18 February 2023.
^ Rita M. Byrnes, ed. (1997). South Africa: A Country Study, 3rd addition. Federal Research Division, Library of Congress. pp. 272, 322. ISBN 9780844407968.
^ Mandela, Nelson (2008). Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela. Little, Brown. p. 125. ISBN 978-0-7595-2104-9. Retrieved 17 April 2020.
^ "THE PASSING OF CDE NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA". ANC. 5 December 2013. Archived from the original on 11 December 2013.
^ "FS204 - Metsimaholo 29 Nov 2017 By-Election Seat Calculation Detail". Independent Electoral Commission.
^ "SACP fares dismally in #Metsimaholo by-elections | IOL News". www.iol.co.za. Retrieved 12 January 2019.
^ Zuma, Jacob (22 November 2015). "President Jacob Zuma: Biennial National Conference of the South African Jewish Board of Deputies". South African Government. Retrieved 27 March 2023.
^ "SACP to contest 2026 LGE independent from ANC - SABC News - Breaking news, special reports, world, business, sport coverage of all South African current events. Africa's news leader". SABC News - Breaking news, special reports, world, business, sport coverage of all South African current events. Africa\'s news leader. 1 December 2024. Archived from the original on 4 January 2025. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ Sussman, Wayne (17 July 2025). "By-elections: DA, EFF, IFP hold firm in E Cape, Polokwane, Zululand". Daily Maverick. Retrieved 19 July 2025.
^ Switzer, Les. South Africa's Alternative Press: Voices of Protest and Resistance, 1880-1960. p. 334.
^ a b c d e f g h i j k Roth, Mia. The Communist Party in South Africa: Racism, Eurocentricity and Moscow.
^ "Bram Fischer's Legacy". The Cairo Review of Global Affairs. 6 April 2015. Retrieved 30 May 2021.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to South African Communist Party.
South African Communist Party – official site
Fifty Fighting Years: The Communist Party of South Africa 1921–1971
South African Communist Party Documents from Marxists Internet Archive.
vtePolitical parties in South AfricaNational Assembly(with number of seats held)
African National Congress (159)
Democratic Alliance (87)
uMkhonto weSizwe (58)
Economic Freedom Fighters (39)
Inkatha Freedom Party (17)
Patriotic Alliance (9)
Freedom Front Plus (6)
ActionSA (6)
African Christian Democratic Party (3)
United Democratic Movement (3)
Rise Mzansi (2)
African Transformation Movement (2)
Al Jama-ah (2)
National Council of Provinces(with number of seats held)
African National Congress (54)
Democratic Alliance (20)
Economic Freedom Fighters (11)
Freedom Front Plus (3)
Inkatha Freedom Party (2)
Other partiesCommunist and socialist
African Content Movement
Azanian People's Organisation
Bolsheviks Party of South Africa
National People's Ambassadors
Socialist Revolutionary Workers Party
South African Communist Party
Workers International Vanguard Party
Workers and Socialist Party
United Congress
Social democratic
African Congress of Democrats
African Democratic Change
Afrikan Alliance of Social Democrats
Agang South Africa
Congress of the People
Good
National Freedom Party
Power of Africans Unity
Pan-Africanist
African People's Convention
Abantu Batho Congress
Black First Land First
Pan Africanist Congress
Pan Africanist Movement
Minority rights
Africa Muslim Party
Cape Muslim Congress
Compatriots of South Africa
Minority Front
National Coloured Congress
Liberal and libertarian
Capitalist Party of South Africa
Democratic Liberal Congress
Free Democrats
Agrarian
Civic Warriors of Maruleng
Land Party
Christian
#Hope4SA
Christian Democratic Party
Christian Political Movement
Economic Emancipation Forum
Kingdom Governance Movement
United Christian Democratic Party
Uniting People First
Environmentalist
ECOPEACE Party
Green Party
Single issue
African Security Congress
All Things Are Possible
Alliance for Transformation for All
Dagga Party
Forum for Service Delivery
New South Africa Party
Operation Dudula
Referendum Party
South African Maintenance and Estate Beneficiaries Association
Women Forward
Local issues and regionalist
Better Residents Association
Cape Independence Party
Dabalorivhuwa Patriotic Front
Gazankulu Liberation Congress
Karoo Gemeenskap Party
MAP16 Civic Movement
Plaaslike Besorgde Inwoners
Sterkspruit Civic Association
Conservative
African Covenant
African Independent Congress
International Revelation Congress
National Party South Africa
Afrikaner nationalist
Afrikaner Self-determination Party
Boerestaat Party
Herstigte Nasionale Party
National Conservative Party of South Africa
African traditionalist
African Mantungwa Community
African Renaissance Unity Party
Dikwankwetla Party of South Africa
National People's Front
National Religious Freedom Party
South African National Congress of Traditional Authorities
Uncategorised
African Change Academy
African Congress for Transformation
African People's Movement
Alliance of Citizens for Change
Democratic Independent Party
Independent Civic Organisation of South Africa
The Peoples Independent Civic Organisation
People's Movement for Change
South African Political Party
South African Rainbow Alliance
Spectrum National Party
Team Sugar South Africa
United Independent Movement
Xiluva
Ximoko Party
Defunct partiesCommunist
Socialist Party of Azania
Workers Party of South Africa
Socialist and social democratic
Labour Party (1910)
Labour Party (1969)
New Labour Party
United Independent Front
Liberal and progressive
Democratic Party (1989)
Democratic Party (1973)
Democratic Progressive Party
Democratic Reform Party
Dominion Party
Federal Alliance
Independent Democrats
Independent Party
Liberal Party of South Africa
Progressive Federal Party
Progressive Party (1890)
Progressive Party (1959)
Progressive Reform Party
Reform Party
South African Business Party
South African Democratic Congress
South African Party (1896)
South African Party (1910)
Union Federal Party
Unionist Party
Conservative
Christian Democratic Alliance
Christian Front
Christen Party/Christian Party
Federation of Democrats
Herenigde Nasionale Party
Het Volk
National Conservative Party
National People's Party (1981)
National Union
New National Party
New Republic Party
Solidarity
South African Party (1977)
United Party
Afrikaner nationalist
Afrikaner Bond
Afrikaner Eenheidsbeweging
Afrikaner Party
Afrikaner Volksfront
Conservative Party
Front National
National Action
National Party
Orangia Unie
Purified National Party
South African Gentile National Socialist Movement
Volksparty
Miscellaneous
Abolition of Income Tax and Usury Party
Keep It Straight and Simple Party
Khoisan Aboriginal and Others Movement
National Alliance
National Democratic Convention
National People's Party (2007)
Peace and Justice Congress
Pro-death Penalty Party
Ubuntu Party
Universal Party
Bantustan Parties
Ciskei National Independence Party
Transkei National Independence Party
National Party of Venda
Dikwankwetla Party of South Africa
Bophuthatswana Democratic Party
Inyandza National Movement
Lebowa Peoples Party
Politics portal
List of political parties
Politics of South Africa
Authority control databases InternationalISNIVIAFNationalUnited StatesFranceBnF dataCzech RepublicIsraelOtherIdRefYale LUX
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=South_African_Communist_Party&oldid=1313213418"
Categories: South African Communist PartyAnti-apartheid organisationsCommunist parties in South AfricaMarxist–Leninist parties in South AfricaPolitical parties in South AfricaInternational Meeting of Communist and Workers PartiesPolitical parties based in JohannesburgFormerly banned communist partiesHidden categories: Articles with short descriptionShort description is different from WikidataUse dmy dates from April 2023Use South African English from February 2017All Wikipedia articles written in South African EnglishPages using infobox political party with unknown parametersAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2025Commons category link from Wikidata
This page was last edited on 24 September 2025, at 23:35 (UTC).
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License;
additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Code of Conduct
Developers
Statistics
Cookie statement
Mobile view
Search
Search
Toggle the table of contents
South African Communist Party
31 languages
Add topic