3 Great Bond ETFs That Do Things Differently | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
Funds
3 Great Bond ETFs That Do Things Differently
3 Great Bond ETFs That Do Things Differently
Unconventional approaches still lead to good results.
Lan Anh Tran
Sep 10, 2025
Share
3 Great Bond ETFs That Do Things Differently
Watch
Securities in This Article
Janus Henderson AAA CLO ETF
(JAAA)
PGIM Short Duration Mlt-Sect Bd ETF
(PSDM)
Vanguard Total International Bond ETF
(BNDX)
Lan Anh Tran: As ETF providers turn their focus toward fixed income, there has never been a more interesting time to browse the menu of bond ETFs. Gone are the days where plain index fund bonds were your only options for an ETF portfolio. Here are three interesting bond ETFs that take less conventional approaches toward great results.3 Great Bond ETFs That Do Things DifferentlyJanus Henderson CLO AAA ETF JAAAVanguard Total International Bond ETF BNDXPGIM Short Duration Multi-Sector Bond ETF PSDMFirst up, Bronze-rated Janus Henderson CLO AAA ETF, ticker JAAA, draws investors in with its unique focus on collateralized loan obligations, otherwise known as CLOs.CLOs are actively managed, diversified pools of non-investment-grade bank loans. So each CLO pools together the income stream from a portfolio of loans, and it then divides that cash flow into multiple tranches, each having a different level of protection against losses on the underlying securities. Higher tranches are better insulated from loss, enjoy lower default rates, and as a result, carry higher credit ratings. The ETF’s seasoned team managers are diligent in monitoring the risk profile and collateral quality of the underlying securities as well as the management of the CLOs themselves. They invest at least 90% of the ETF’s assets in AAA rated CLO tranches and sensibly cap the fund’s exposure to any single CLO manager or deal. The ETF sits in the ultra short bond Morningstar Category, where peers often take on stakes in Treasuries and corporate bonds. Nonetheless, its singular focus on CLO boosts its trailing 12-month yields to 5.8% compared to only 4.7% for its category average.Read more: Morningstar’s Guide to Fixed-Income InvestingThe ETF’s short track record has been compelling. It’s ranked in the top quartile of its category over the trailing three years ending in July 2025. This ETF can be more volatile than peers in time of credit stress, but its risk-adjusted return has been strong so far.Next up, Silver-rated Vanguard Total International Bond ETF BNDX. This ETF is a straightforward passive international-bond fund, except that it caps its exposure to Chinese bonds. The Chinese bond market, the second-largest in the world, can take up to 20% to 30% of an international bond portfolio with its market weight. But it is also a market with opaque regulations, low level of liquidity outside of government bonds, and rocky market access. Given the passive nature of this fund and its vast asset base of over 100 billion, the ETF adopted this prudent limit to avoid transaction costs and operational challenges in periods of liquidity stress in the Chinese market. As a result, it has yet to invest more than 2% of its portfolio in Chinese bonds, despite their market share.The ETF might underperform unconstrained peers when Chinese bonds outperform other international markets, but it has also avoided the slump when they reverse these gains, such as in the first half of 2023. While this narrows the ETF opportunity set, it still sweeps in the broad swath of foreign bonds for international-minded investors. The ETF has outperformed its category average by 24 basis point annualized between its 2013 inception and July 2025. Much of this came from its high-quality tilt and superior protection during credit market stress. And last but not least, Gold-rated PGIM Short Duration Multi-Sector Bond ETF, ticker PSDM. This short-term bond ETF can provide strong returns to investors who can stomach its wide scope and higher volatility.As the name suggests, this ETF spans across multiple sectors in its quest to outperform its benchmark. Rather than playing it safe in this relatively low-risk corner of the market, it bets on securitized and corporate bonds and reaches as far as developed- and emerging-market debts.While this approach takes on more credit risk than most peers, the ETF’s veteran team of managers and supporting analysts have demonstrated their expertise in times of market stress. They cut back on interest rate risk in the end of 2021, as they consider inflation to be persistent. Their stake in emerging-market debts also shrunk in recent years, as slowing growth and geopolitical tensions have proved challenging for many of these markets. While the ETF was launched recently in 2023, its mutual fund sibling has been outperforming peers in the short-term bond Morningstar Category since its 2014 inception. The mutual fund R6 share class ranked in the top quartile of its category in the trailing 10 years ending July 2025. Its higher volatility over this period was justified by its superior risk-adjusted return, as measured by its Sharpe ratio.Watch 3 Dividend-Stock ETFs That Are Flying Under the Radar for more from Lan Anh Tran.
The author or authors do not own shares in any securities mentioned in this article.
Find out about Morningstar’s editorial policies.
Share
More in Funds
View All
An ETF Gained Almost 42% a Year. Its Investors Still Lost Money Say hello to the YieldMax ETFs.
Jeffrey Ptak, CFA Sep 23, 2025
Watch Out for Zero-Revenue Companies Lurking in Your Portfolio These strategies hold companies with some financial uncertainty.
David Carey Sep 23, 2025
9 Top-Performing Large-Value Funds Funds from Invesco, Natixis, and BNY are among the best performers.
Gabe Alpert Sep 18, 2025
About the Author
View All Authors
Lan Anh Tran Manager Research Analyst
More from Author
Lan Anh Tran is a manager research analyst for Morningstar.
Understanding Your Covered-Call Yield
Lan Anh Tran Sep 17, 2025
3 Great Bond ETFs That Do Things Differently
Lan Anh Tran Sep 10, 2025
This Vanguard ETF Offers High-Quality Exposure to Short-Term Bonds
Lan Anh Tran Sep 2, 2025
3 Dividend-Stock ETFs That Are Flying Under the Radar
Lan Anh Tran Aug 20, 2025
Passive Investing Still Requires Due Diligence
Lan Anh Tran Aug 13, 2025
3 Great ETFs for Rebalancing Your Portfolio in 2025
Lan Anh Tran Jul 16, 2025
Avoid These Traps with High Dividend ETFs
Lan Anh Tran Jul 9, 2025
Build Your Portfolio With This Vanguard Corporate Bond ETF
Lan Anh Tran Jul 7, 2025
Digital Advice in 2025: What You Need to Know About Robo-Advisors
Lan Anh Tran Jun 20, 2025
3 Top US ETFs for 2025 and Beyond
Lan Anh Tran Jun 11, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility