This iOS 26 feature makes your screenshots so much more useful - here's how it works | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mobile OS
iOS
This iOS 26 feature makes your screenshots so much more useful - here's how it works
With full-screen previews enabled in iOS 26, you can instantly access your screenshots and use new AI features on them - like asking ChatGPT.
Written by
Elyse Betters Picaro, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 7:53 a.m. PT
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET's key takeawaysiOS 26 adds full-screen previews to iPhone screenshots.New AI tools let you image search and ask ChatGPT.You can enable or disable full-screen previews in Settings.When you take a screenshot on your iPhone or iPad, a small thumbnail appears in the bottom corner. Tap it, and you can edit, crop, or share the screenshot before saving. In iOS 26 and iPadOS 26, that process has a whole new look with additional tools.Now, when you tap a thumbnail, you'll enter a full-screen preview mode -- complete with markup tools, crop and scale options, a sharing shortcut, and Apple's new Visual Intelligence features. These include Image Search, which helps you find similar items on Google, and Highlight to Search, which narrows results to a specific area of the screenshot. You can also add events directly to your calendar from screenshots, and use the built-in Ask ChatGPT feature to get explanations or context about what's on screen. Also: Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)But here's something you might not know: After enabling a setting, you won't need to tap a screenshot thumbnail to access the new full-screen preview. Instead, full-screen previews will pop up automatically the moment you take a screenshot.
If you don't want to modify the screenshot after capturing one, just swipe away the preview and move on with your day. If you later decide that full-screen previews are not useful, you can easily disable the setting and revert to the default behavior.
How to enable full-screen previews on iPhone and iPad What you'll need: Apple released iOS 26 and iPadOS 26 in September, so make sure your devices are updated to the latest software. You'll need to be running at least these versions to see full-screen previews and access the setting.
1. Go to General in the Settings app
Once you're running iOS 26 or iPadOS 26, unlock your device, open the Settings app, scroll down to General, and tap it.Also: Why I'm skipping the iPhone 17 this year (and it's not just about the money)
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
2. Select Screen Capture
Within the General menu, look for the Screen Capture option. Apple placed all screenshot-related controls here, making it easy for you to manage previews, formats, and other features.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
3. Toggle on Full-Screen Previews
Turn on the switch next to Full-Screen Previews so that it's green. From now on, every time you take a screenshot, it will open instantly in the full-screen preview instead of just appearing as a small corner thumbnail.Also: How to clear your iPhone cache (and why you should do it before updating to iOS 26)
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNET
4. Take a screenshot and start playing
Once you've enabled full-screen previews, capturing a screenshot is as simple as pressing the Side button and Volume Up button at the same time. Instead of a small thumbnail, your screenshot will now open in a full-screen editor with tool icons along the bottom of the display.On the bottom left, you'll see the Ask button for ChatGPT. On the bottom right is the Image Search button for reverse searches. You can also use Highlight to Search by pressing and dragging your finger across a specific part of the screenshot to focus results only on that area. In the middle, Visual Intelligence's contextual options will appear -- if you have an iPhone 15 or later. These vary depending on what's detected in the screenshot, such as Add to Calendar for events.At the top, you'll find the familiar markup pen icon for drawing and annotations, along with share and crop options and the ability to select text. If you captured a webpage or a particularly long page, you will even see a new tab to switch to a full-page preview. This lets you scroll to see the entire length of the screenshot.
Show more
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETFAQs
What can Visual Intelligence do on screenshots?Apple's Visual Intelligence is handy for translating signs, dialing phone numbers, identifying plants or landmarks, and pulling up business info. Until now, however, it only worked through the camera. Apple has removed that limitation by baking Visual Intelligence directly into its new screenshot interface. Now, any screenshot can be analyzed with AI on an iPhone 15 Pro, iPhone 16, or newer.Also: Don't like Apple's new Liquid Glass look? Here's how to tone it downWhen you capture a screenshot, the full-screen preview includes new buttons to ask ChatGPT about the content or get contextual information like translations, the ability to select, copy, and summarize text, call numbers, bring up Maps, add to Calendar, and more. You can even select a specific part of the screenshot to conduct a similar or reverse image search.
Elyse Betters Picaro / ZDNETHow to disable full-screen previewsDon't like the new screenshot experience? You can quickly turn it off and go back to the thumbnail workflow. Open Settings.Tap General.Choose Screen Capture.Toggle off Full-Screen Previews. Can I still markup if I disable full-screen previews? Yes. Just tap the thumbnail in the corner after taking a screenshot, and you'll get the full-screen preview and all its editing options. How to exit a full-screen preview 	You can dismiss a full-screen preview the moment it pops up or when you're done editing the screenshot. Take a screenshot.When the full-screen preview appears, swipe up from the bottom (or tap Done in the top corner). Do full-screen previews save automatically? Yes. Even if you swipe the preview away, the screenshot is still saved to your Photos app. What other screenshot options can I try? When you're in the Screen Capture area of Settings > General, check out a few of the new options available: HDR Screenshots: Saves captures in HEIF format with richer color.CarPlay Screenshots: Lets you capture CarPlay interfaces when connected.Visual Lookup: Available on iPhone 15 Pro and newer, for object recognition and AI insights.
Show more
Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Downloading iOS 26? Do these 6 things on your iPhone first (and thank me later)
My favorite iOS 26 feature answers unknown calls so I don't have to - here's how
This underrated iOS 26 feature gave me a productivity boost (and it works on older iPhones)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use