Fall Baking Bucket List
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
43 Best Fall Baking Recipes
39 Impressive Dinners for Your Cooking Bucket List
44 Best Cookie Recipes to Make in 2024
The 45 Best Air-Fryer Recipes to Make in 2024
37 Easy Fall Baking Recipes for Cooler Days
51 Fall Pies You'll Want to Make All Season Long
The Best Bread Recipes of 2024
Bakeable: Your Guide to Everything Baking
The Best Recipes of 2024
28 Best Food Gifts of 2025, Tested by Expert Editors
67 Baked Goods for Your Spring Brunch
29 Easy Summer Baking Recipes We’re Making ASAP
25 Top Newsletter Recipes of 2024
50 Oven-Baked Recipes for Winter
Top-Rated Recipes for Your Baking Bucket List
11 Cooking Kits for Anyone Who Wants to Learn a New Skill in 2025
30+ Tips & Tricks Every Baker Needs to Know for the 2024 Holiday Season
10 Best-Selling Kitchen Items Our Readers Loved in 2025
Top 10 Baking Recipes
10 Gift Ideas for Kids Who Love to Cook (2025 Guide)
Taste of Home, Getty Images
Home
Recipes
Cooking Style
Baking
Your 2025 Fall Baking Bucket List
Taste of Home, Getty Images
By
Val Goodrich
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Sep. 02, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
Our fall baking bucket list includes all the cozy autumnal pastries, breads and desserts we crave as soon as the weather starts to cool down. Bake along with us, and then check off recipes on the bingo card.
After a long summer season full of fruit pies and no-bake treats, the idea of diving into cozy fall desserts feels extra enticing. That’s why we made a fall baking bucket list, filled with all our favorite autumnal recipes. From warm chai cinnamon rolls to squash and sage focaccia, there are so many recipes we want to make that we had to start writing them all down!
Your Fall Baking Bingo Card
Ready to get in on the fun? All the recipes on our fall baking bucket list can be found on this bingo card. Bake five things in a row (horizontal, vertical or diagonal) to get a Bingo!
Fall Baking Recipes
Of all the fall baking recipes out there, here are 25 on our bucket list this year:
Apple dessert: Anyone who loves toting home a bakery bag full of warm apple cider doughnuts will love this Bundt cake version. Every bite of Apple Cider Doughnut Cake is filled with brown sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, and there’s even a cinnamon-sugar coating that’s true to the apple orchard favorite.
Pumpkin bread: The recipe on our baking bucket list every single year is the humble loaf of Pumpkin Spice Bread. Bake a batch in the morning and steal a slice all throughout the day. Our secret to the perfect loaf? Always use the best canned pumpkin.
Fall pie: Good-quality bourbon adds a welcome twist to the classic sweet, gooey and nutty pecan pie. With notes of vanilla, caramel and fall spice, you’ll love how much more elevated our Bourbon Pecan Pie tastes, and all it requires is that one extra ingredient.
Soft pretzels: Attending an Oktoberfest party? That’s the perfect excuse to whip up these Soft Giant Pretzels and check off a bingo slot in the process! Our recipe bakes a traditional batch of German pretzels, but we included ways to plus it up with garlic and Parmesan, everything bagel seasoning or a cinnamon-sugar coating.
Maple syrup dessert: With real maple syrup, white chocolate chips and chopped pecans, Maple Cookies are a wonderful fall dessert for anyone who might be a little tired of apples or pumpkins by now.
Cardamom-flavored bake: Save Swedish cardamom buns for a Saturday project and indulge on Sunday morning or at an afternoon Swedish fika.
Salted caramel bars: An irresistible salted caramel and melted chocolate filling layer runs through the center of these tender Chocolate Salted Caramel Bars. Store-bought caramel candies make this recipe so easy, so there’s no tricky caramel-cooking or candy thermometers needed.
Flavored focaccia: Anyone who’s a bit apprehensive about homemade bread should start with this simple, no-knead Squash Focaccia. The dough is basically foolproof, and thinly sliced squash and fresh sage leaves make this focaccia recipe undeniably fall-forward.
Cranberry baked good: Cranberries are the ultimate palate cleanser, so I love serving these Cranberry Curd Bars after heavy fall meals. Plus, the bright pink hue adds such a cheerful pop of color!
Small-batch bake: We scaled down a British favorite so there’s just enough for two. Sticky Toffee Pudding for 2 is perfect for a romantic date night in. The cinnamon and ginger-spiced date cake gets even more autumnal with a homemade toffee sauce poured on top, soaking into the spongy cake.
Pumpkin snickerdoodles: We only had to add one ingredient (pumpkin!) to turn a classic batch of snickerdoodles into the perfect fall cookie. Cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger pair beautifully with the pumpkin puree, making these Pumpkin Snickerdoodles taste like fall itself.
Muffins: If you’re only saving cranberries for winter, these Cranberry Muffins will change your mind. Tart, juicy cranberries bake with sweet cinnamon, warm nutmeg, zippy ginger, bright orange zest and crunchy pecans for a full-flavored but perfectly balanced batch of muffins that taste just like fall.
Bakeable challenge: In place of the free space is our monthly Bakeable challenge. Each month, members of our Bakeable community bake a special recipe with us and share their photos in the Bakeable Facebook group. Come bake along with us!
Sourdough bread: If you’ve always been a bit intimidated by the sourdough-making process, let’s rip the band-aid. Our Sourdough French Bread walks you through the technique of making the perfect loaf of sourdough, from creating and feeding a foamy starter to kneading and shaping a boulangerie-worthy loaf.
Coffee-flavored treat: There’s so much to love about these Cappuccino Muffins. Each one is filled with cozy cinnamon, chocolate chips and buzzy coffee, but they become unexpectedly delicious with a smear of coffee cream cheese spread.
Dutch oven bread: Our no-knead Dutch Oven Bread just needs a simple score and a quick bake. It takes eight hours to rise, so start it in the morning so it’s ready for dinner.
Chai spice bake: Chai’s blend of cinnamon, nutmeg, cardamom, ginger and cloves inherently lends itself to a plethora of fall recipes. We decided to mix it into a cinnamon roll’s brown sugar and cinnamon filling in these Chai Cinnamon Rolls. They’re similar to a dirty chai latte for a buzzy morning jolt.
Coffee cake: If there was ever a way to welcome in a chilly autumn morning, it’s with this Apple Coffee Cake that’s heady with fall spices and chunks of tart apples. The secret ingredient (sour cream!) makes every bite exceptionally tender, and the brown sugar and spiced pecan topping adds a lot of nice crunch and warmth.
No-bake dessert: Everyone’s talking about tiramisu lately, so we were inspired to create an elevated version of the classic. Earl Grey Tiramisu trades buzzy espresso for the namesake tea, imparting herbal and woodsy bergamot that’s unexpectedly fall.
Biscuits: Warm, fresh Buttermilk Biscuits are hard to beat. With a flaky, buttery interior and slight outer crunch, they’re perfect as-is. During the fall season, though, I love using them as a raft for pumpkin or apple butter.
Brown butter dessert: There’s so much to love about these unexpectedly autumnal Brown Butter Blondies with Speculoos Buttercream. From the softly spiced cookie butter frosting to the toasty browned butter blondies and the crunchy walnuts studded throughout, every bite has a perfect harmony of flavor.
Olive oil cake: Apples get a lot of love during the fall season, but here, pears are the star. Our Pear Olive Oil Cake combines the fruit with warm cinnamon, good-quality olive oil and a bit of almond flour for a nutty flavor and toothsome bite.
Something nutty: Baklava is a traditional dessert in Middle Eastern and Mediterranean cuisines, where filling variations abound. Here, we follow the Greek version, filling the phyllo dough with walnuts, cinnamon and cloves and finishing the pastry with a sticky honey-citrus glaze.
Morning buns: Have you ever wanted to learn how to make laminated dough from scratch? Morning Buns are the best project to perfect the skill. They’re filled with a cinnamon and orange zest filling and baked into buttery puffs of flaky pastry with a cinnamon-sugar coating.
Apple bread: Pineapple upside-down cake inspired this autumnal bread version. Upside-Down Apple Bread steams and caramelizes sliced apples, concentrating their flavors and melding their tart taste with warm cinnamon and sweet brown sugar.
Bingo!
Did you bake five recipes in a row (horizontal, vertical or diagonal)? Great job! Fill out the form below before October 31 to receive a complimentary Christmas Cookies eBook in November. Limited to the first 100 participants; one prize per person.
Author
Val Goodrich
Val channels her experience from the Culinary Institute of America and a number of bakeries into her daily work at Taste of Home. She’s usually typing away at her desk in Philly, but otherwise, you can find her planning her next trip abroad, using her ice cream maker or filling her basket at the farmers market.
Read More
Elise Jesse
Elise is a home cook and recipe developer known for family-friendly dishes, trendy bakes and entertaining ideas.
Bread
Elise Jesse’s Cinnamon Sugar Sourdough Croissant Loaf
Treats
Elise Jesse’s S’mores Bites
Pasta Salad
Elise Jesse’s Pasta Salad
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box