I Did an Internship in My 40s to Return to Work After a Career Break - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Careers
I took an 11-year career break to raise my son. At 41, I took an internship and landed a senior role after 3 months.
As told to
Charissa Cheong
Sripriya Balasubramaniam, center, decided to start applying for jobs again when her son was 11.
Courtesy of Sripriya Balasubramaniam
2025-09-15T09:02:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Sripriya Balasubramaniam took an 11-year career break to raise her son.
An internship helped her brush up on the latest technologies and make a return to the IT industry.
It required hard work, but she's glad she paused her career to be with her son.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with 45-year-old Sripriya Balasubramaniam, from Chennai, India. The following has been edited for length and clarity.
When I had my son in 2009 at age 30, I'd been working in IT at Oracle India for close to seven years.Two weeks into returning to work after five months of maternity leave, I couldn't stop calling my husband to check in on my son.
I was fearful of missing out on milestones in his life — his first words, crawling, and walking.Instead of leaving our son in day care, my husband and I decided he would work, and I'd take a yearlong career break to look after him.My break ended up lasting 11 years. In 2021, I accepted an internship offer, which helped me get back into work, even though I had to compete with younger people and work tremendously hard to upskill myself.
I missed my financial independence when I stopped workingDuring my seven years at Oracle, I worked my way up from a software developer to a project leader. People were reporting to me, and things were going well with my career.I resigned from my job and started looking after my son full time in early 2010. My husband had to go to the office for work, so he wasn't available during the day to help.
Balasubramaniam resigned from Oracle in 2010.
Courtesy of Sripriya Balasubramaniam
At first, I was fine with taking a break from work, but by the end of the year, I felt sad about it. I missed having financial independence. Because I was relying on my husband's income, I felt I should ask him before I spent money, even though he didn't require me to get his permission.
With only one person's income, we had to make lifestyle changes. We both loved traveling, but we had to cut back on foreign trips and luxury travel.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Although the initial plan was for my break to last one year, I kept extending it. Our family relocated from the city of Bengaluru, where we lived, to the US for two years for my husband's job. We came back to India in 2012, and I decided to put my son in preschool and let him get settled.I continued to stay home and look after him even when he went into full-time schooling in 2014, four years into my career break. I loved dropping him off at school and enrolling him in different activities.
When he was at school, I'd focus on housework. I'd sit with him while he did homework and take him to the park. My life revolved around him.At that time, I cared more about being involved in his life than returning to work.An internship ended my 11-year career breakWhen my career break reached five years, I began to convince myself I couldn't get back into the IT industry. It's easier to still feel in touch with current technologies after one or two years off, but by this point, I felt like I was forgetting my technical skills.
When the COVID-19 pandemic hit in 2020 and many people shifted to working from home, it felt easier to transition back to work as I could still be at home with my son, who was 11 at the time.I was open to a range of roles and started applying for jobs in January 2021. I used an online portal called HerKey for women professionals that included career returnee programs. When a few companies didn't reply to my application, I assumed it was because my break was so big.To prepare for potential new roles, I brushed up on my skills in SQL, a programming language. I also decided to be open in my applications about the length of my career break and which technologies I was comfortable with.
On the jobs portal, I came across a six-month internship program for career returners with an IT services company. Although it was an internship, I thought I could use it to upskill and move forward.It was the fifth job I applied to in five months, and I landed the role in May 2021.I studied hard to keep up with changes in my industryI was happy to get back into the IT industry, but the thought of going back to work was extremely scary. During the interview stage, I had to write a few queries, and my hands were shaking during the task.
I was starting fresh at 41. Everything was now based on cloud technologies instead of a traditional database, which was a significant change since I was last in the workforce. I remotely attended company trainings on the latest technologies, but I also upskilled myself by learning from the internet.After my eight-hour workday, I'd spend two to three hours a day studying to keep up. Without upskilling, you can't sustain yourself in this industry.At times, I found it hard to balance housework with learning on the job. My husband and my son supported me beautifully by motivating me and taking up responsibilities at home, even though they had to get used to me not being around all the time.
The internship was meant to last six months, but they hired me as a full-time senior engineer after three months because they liked my performance on a specific project.In 2022, I moved to another IT services company, where I work remotely. I love working, coding, and meeting new people through my job.I have no regretsIf I hadn't taken a career break, I imagine I'd be a senior manager by now, which is two levels above where I currently am. But I have no regrets about my choices. I loved spending time with my son.
My journey required tremendous hard work. My son is 15 now. By watching me return to a job and study, he could see the value of hard work. I'm glad that he's learning something from me.Do you have a story to share about taking a career break? Contact this reporter at ccheong@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
as told to
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account