Mammoth challenge: why we called our de-extinction company Colossal Biosciences
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
career feature
article
CAREER FEATURE
25 September 2025
Mammoth challenge: why we called our de-extinction company Colossal Biosciences
Chief executive Ben Lamm says the name aims to capture biodiversity challenges and excite children about a flagship species.
By
Jacqui Thornton0
Jacqui Thornton
Jacqui Thornton is a freelance writer based in Winchester, UK.
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
Find a new job
Colossal Biosciences as a company name was picked to engage children, says chief executive Ben Lamm.Credit: Colossal BiosciencesThe meaning behind our monikerColossal Biosciences, in Dallas, Texas, describes itself as the world’s first de-extinction company. It aims to revive lost species using CRISPR gene-editing technology, including the mammoth (Mammuthus spp.). It attracted controversy when it announced it has ‘de-extincted’ the dire wolf (Aenocyon dirus), a large-bodied wolf species that last roamed North America during the ice age that ended some 11,500 years ago. Its co-founders are technology entrepreneur Ben Lamm, Colossal’s chief executive, and George Church, the company’s genetics adviser, who also holds academic research positions at Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge. In the third article of a six-part series about science-company names and how to choose them, Lamm describes how the name ‘Colossal Biosciences’ came about. The fact that the world will lose up to 25% of all biodiversity between now and 2050 is a huge problem. At my company, we asked ourselves, how do we come up with a name that encompasses three elements: the problem, the solution and our flagship species, the mammoth? Climate change, biodiversity, CRISPR and gene editing, artificial intelligence, computational analysis and advanced embryology can be difficult concepts for the public to fully grasp. We came up with ‘Colossal Biosciences’ because losing species is a colossal problem, our solution is colossal and the mammoth is a colossal animal.We felt that our brand and name should not only reflect the problem and solution, but also be approachable to children, including some who will grow up to read Cell, Nature and Science. Every week, we get little pictures of dodos and baby mammoths that kids draw, and their parents mail us physical letters, saying things such as: ‘Thank you so much for doing what you’re doing. My kid is excited about science. You’re making science cool.’ A big, awesome nameTo come up with Colossal, I worked with Chris Klee, executive vice-president of design at the company, and Chris Stevens, co-founder of Maven Creative, our branding agency, in Orlando, Florida.We’ve worked together for the past 20 years. We had a list of seven or eight potential names — including ‘Huge’, ‘Macedon’ (an ancient kingdom) and ‘Footprint’ (because every species has a unique one). Everything was centred around the concept of ‘big and awesome’. Obviously, ‘Mammoth’ was on the list because the world is facing a mammoth challenge, but we felt that calling it that would have pigeonholed us to one species. We also liked ‘Colossus’, and the idea of using ‘us’ to signify a team effort. But Colossus is a character in the Marvel Universe media franchise, and we didn’t want to be too Hollywood. We also considered names linked to evolution, and thought ‘Darwin’ could be a cool one. But when we said ‘Colossal’ out loud, we were like, ‘That’s it!’ Alongside the name, there’s the brand — so before we decided on Colossal, we underwent a process to come up with a brand that encapsulated ‘Harvard University meets 1980’s MTV’.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02668-7This interview has been edited for length and clarity.Subscribe to Nature Briefing: Careers, an unmissable free weekly round-up of help and advice for working scientists.
Related Articles
This company claimed to ‘de-extinct’ dire wolves. Then the fighting started
Why a silly-sounding name suits the serious mission of our biotech spin-off
Careers advice from scientists in industry
The business of science
Subjects
Technology
Biodiversity
Careers
Business
Latest on:
Technology
Biodiversity
Careers
Python, the movie! The programming language’s origin story comes to the silver screen
Career Q&A 25 SEP 25
The meaning behind the moniker: how to choose a science-company name that delights
Career Feature 23 SEP 25
Real-time molecular recorders expose the inner lives of cells
Technology Feature 22 SEP 25
Diverging fish biodiversity trends in cold and warm rivers and streams
Article 24 SEP 25
A population plunge could help to mitigate the global biodiversity crisis
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Use computing royalties to kick-start biodiversity fund
Correspondence 09 SEP 25
Retractions can reshape scientists’ careers in unexpected ways
Nature Index 25 SEP 25
It’s not wokeness — it’s human rights
Career Q&A 24 SEP 25
No lectures, exams, essays: inside a twenty-first-century university
Career Feature 24 SEP 25
Jobs
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (Information & Mathematical Science)
School of Information Science and Technology invites highly qualified candidates to fill multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
This company claimed to ‘de-extinct’ dire wolves. Then the fighting started
Why a silly-sounding name suits the serious mission of our biotech spin-off
Careers advice from scientists in industry
The business of science
Subjects
Technology
Biodiversity
Careers
Business
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited