Apple iPhone 16 Pro and Pro Max Review: Compelling Upgrade With My Favorite iPhone Feature in Years - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
apple event
TechMobile Phones
Apple iPhone 16 Pro and Pro Max Review: Compelling Upgrade With My Favorite iPhone Feature in Years
The $999 iPhone 16 Pro and $1,199 iPhone 16 Pro Max have everything we've come to expect in a year-over-year upgrade. They lack Apple Intelligence at launch but make up for it in other ways.
Article updated on September 18, 2024 at 5:01 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
Patrick Holland
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
Patrick Holland Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr. Expertise Apple | iPhone | iOS | Android | Samsung | Sony | Google | Motorola | Interviews | Coffee equipment | Cats Credentials Patrick's play The Cowboy is included in the Best American Short Plays 2011-12 anthology. He co-wrote and starred in the short film Baden Krunk that won the Best Wisconsin Short Film award at the Milwaukee Short Film Festival.
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
Table of Contents
Apple iPhone 16 Pro and Pro Max Review: Compelling Upgrade With My Favorite iPhone Feature in Years
But should you buy it?
iPhone 16 Pro's 4K 120fps slow motion
Apple Intelligence: Beta steps
The iPhone 16 Pro has more Camera Control
iPhone 16 Pro cameras and photos
iPhone 16 Pro's Audio Mix is outstanding
The iPhone 16 Pro is all about iOS 18 and A18 Pro
iPhone 16 Pro wrap-up
How we test phones
Apple's iPhone 16 and 16 Pro lineup
2024
A few days into my week-long test of the iPhone 16 Pro and Pro Max, it became obvious to me that the best feature on Apple's premium devices isn't the new camera control button, bigger screen or larger battery. It isn't even Apple Intelligence.The iPhone 16 Pro's ability to record high-resolution slow-motion video is the best new iPhone feature I've seen in years. I used the 16 Pro to record footage of a lion dance rehearsal and was surprised by how the slow motion made the dancers' fast acrobatic movements look graceful, sustained and powerful -- something that's difficult to appreciate in real time. OK, I'm biased because I used to make short films and love the beauty of slo-mo.See more: Apple iPhone 16 and 16 Plus Review: Little Improvements Add UpBut is the 16 Pro's 4K, 120-frames-per-second video capability really enough to get people who aren't camera nerds excited about Apple's new premium iPhones -- especially as the company touts the power of its Apple Intelligence suite of generative AI features?
James Martin/CNETWith its straight-sided titanium build and Siri's rainbow glow, Apple hyped the iPhone 16 Pro as a vessel that will bring generative AI, in the form of Apple Intelligence, into our everyday lives.Turns out, the complete vision for the iPhone 16 Pro with Apple Intelligence that the company showed off at its September iPhone event just isn't ready yet. I appreciate that Apple is taking its time to wade into the gen-AI waters -- it can hopefully avoid the blunders associated with a rushed rollout that we saw with Google's AI Overviews release. But it's unfortunate that people who may have bought the iPhone 16 Pro or 16 Pro Max specifically for Apple Intelligence will have to wait before experiencing it on their new phone.And while I did get to test an early preview version of Apple Intelligence on the iPhone 16 Pro, key features were missing. I didn't get to test the ChatGPT integration, Genmoji or Image Playground.However, other standout features left me impressed with the 16 Pro. That high-resolution slow-mo recording function, various iOS 18 capabilities as well as hardware upgrades help the iPhone 16 Pro feel like a compelling upgrade.See more: Best VPN for iPhone 2024
Watch this: Review: Apple's iPhone 16 Pro Is an Impressive Upgrade
12:06
But should you buy it?If you're buying the $999 iPhone 16 Pro (£999, AU$1,799) or the $1,199 iPhone 16 Pro Max (£1,199, AU$2,149) for Apple Intelligence, don't. At least not yet. Apple has indicated that iOS 18.1, which will introduce the AI features, will come out in October.If you have an iPhone 12 Pro or older, upgrading to the 16 Pro makes a lot of sense. If you're on a 13 Pro and still have a decent battery capacity, I'd say save your money. And if you're on a 14 Pro or 15 Pro, there's no need to upgrade. Also, I should note that the entry-level $999 iPhone 16 Pro only has 128GB of storage. For perspective, Motorola's $300 Moto G Power comes with 128GB. Apple's charging over three times the price, so it could have at least included 256GB of storage in the base model.This year the 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max have the exact same cameras -- unlike the 15 Pro and 15 Pro Max, which had different telephoto options. Screen size, battery life and price should be the deciding factors when you're choosing between the two.Shortcomings aside, the iPhone 16 Pro is impressive, and it will likely be even more so as software updates and promised features are added. Just don't buy it hoping for Apple Intelligence (yet).iPhone 16 Pro's 4K 120fps slow motion
Here's a still pulled from an iPhone 16 Pro slow-motion video. Patrick Holland/CNETThe year was 2020 and in the middle of the lockdown, Sony sent me the Xperia 5 II, which could record 4K, 120fps, slow-motion videos. The feature was the first time slow-motion video in 4K resolution had ever been offered on a phone. The Xperia 5 II was clearly ahead of its time and, until now, had been the high-water mark for phone-based slo-mo recording.Apple takes all this to another level.Not only can the 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max record 4K 120fps slow motion video, it can do so with little effort. Unlike the Xperia 5 II, which required using a professional camera app to record and preserve the footage, Apple bakes in the ability right into the iPhone's native camera app.And the results look outstanding, which is why this feature is such a big deal. Previous slow motion videos shot on the iPhone could look good if there was a lot of light. But they topped out at a lower HD resolution and the image quality was a significant step down from regular 4K 30fps video recording.The iPhone 16 Pro's new slo-mo has great details, good dynamic range and accurate colors which puts it on par with regular iPhone video quality. Even when I was recording a lion dance rehearsal by the Lion Dance Me company in their San Francisco warehouse space, under medium lighting, the video looked good. You can see this slo-mo footage and more in the video below.
Watch this: iPhone 16 Pro 4K 120fps Slow Motion Video Test
01:10
Apple Intelligence: Beta steps
I tried a preview of Apple Intelligence. The glowing border means Siri is working. James Martin/CNETThe review unit Apple loaned me ran the iOS 18.1 developer beta, which allowed me to preview some Apple Intelligence features. It was a similar experience I had running the developer beta of 18.1 on my iPhone 15 Pro. And while Apple Intelligence is the headline feature for the phone, it's not quite fully baked. But from what I was able to test, I found Apple Intelligence to be useful and fun, and could see its potential.The writing tools are clever. You can have it proofread something you wrote, or prompt it to rewrite it in a different tone and style, like concise, professional or friendly. The professional style is a bit stilted. It rewrote a text to a neighbor who was cat sitting for me, in which I joked about my cat being sad that I was gone. It conjured: "My feline companion is experiencing distress due to my excessive work commitments, which have resulted in a neglect of his preferred activities, such as playtime and quality interactions."I found this hysterical.
This is the writing tools pop-up menu from Apple Intelligence. James Martin/CNETAs a professional writer, I don't expect I'd use these rewrite tools regularly. But one Apple Intelligence feature that I did use a ton was the Summarize tool, especially in Safari for news stories. I read a bunch of articles every day, so I can see the Summarize tool being the key to help weed out the clickbait from stories I should actually peruse.The Create a Memory Movie in the Photos app is fun. I gave it the prompt "San Francisco brunch," and it made a Memory Movie titled "Brunching in the City" complete with the song Cissy Strut by The Meters.But probably the most notable feature has to be the Clean Up tool in Photos, which lets you remove unwanted elements from an image. In this photo of CNET's Lisa Eadicicco, I removed a chair on the left side and monitor on the right. I would have a hard time telling if there had been something there – aside from the leftover chair wheels.
Here's a photo of CNET's Lisa Eadicicco, but with an office chair and computer monitor removed with the Apple intelligence Clean up tool. Patrick Holland/CNETHere's one of CNET's Lexy Savvides and Celso Bulgatti.
Here's an unedited photo taken with the iPhone 16 Pro. Patrick Holland/CNETBelow is the same photo after I used the Clean Up tool to remove a person from the background who was talking to someone out of the frame. The results are good. But when I removed the van from the background, it was replaced with a Salavdor Dali-like bike wheel blob.
Here's the same photo without the man on the left or the van in the background. Patrick Holland/CNETSiri's glowing interface looks cool and the assistant seems faster and more helpful. When talking to Siri, I can be more natural and change what I say mid-thought. But this is far from the Gemini Live capability on Google's Pixel 9 phones, which has its own issues. Siri handles changing phone controls well, but when I asked what my phone's serial number was, it was unresponsive. The same was true when I asked how much storage I had on my phone.Again, this was a preview version of Apple Intelligence, and the public release should arrive in October. While I take issue with Apple linking the iPhone 16 Pro and Apple Intelligence despite the gen-AI feature not being available, I do see where Apple is headed with generative AI and large language models, and I'm glad it's taking its time to get there.The iPhone 16 Pro has more Camera Control
This is the new Camera Control button on the iPhone 16 Pro. James Martin/CNETApple added the Action button last year, and in 2024 gave us the Camera Control button -- which is so much more than just a button. Essentially, it's a shortcut key for the camera. Press it to open the camera and press it again to take a photo. Press and hold to record a video.The button, located just below the power button, sits flush with the iPhone's side and can also be lightly double-tapped to bring up a gorgeous tiny menu of camera tools that gives me Q-Tip-in-the-ear levels of satisfaction every time I see it. If you select the zoom tool, you can slide your finger across the button to zoom in and out, almost like a miniature MacBook trackpad. You can also set it to adjust the "aperture" for Portrait mode photos to make the background look more or less blurry.My favorite use is for swiping through Apple's new Photographic Styles to get a preview of different looks before I take a photo. Apple said that more functionality is in the works, including the ability to half-press the button to lock focus and exposure and full-press to take a photo -- like a dedicated professional mirrorless camera.
Here is the Camera Control key's onscreen menu. James Martin/CNETThe biggest downside is if I'm holding the phone one-handed (I'm right-handed) to take a horizontal photo, I usually have my index finger across the side to help get a good grip on the phone, and that can accidentally interact with the Camera Control key.As useful as the Camera Control button is, it seems ideally geared for Visual Intelligence, which can add context to whatever your iPhone's cameras are pointed at, a bit like Google Lens. Unfortunately, it won't arrive until later this year. The Camera Control button will work with other photography apps, but I wish it could be used to swipe in apps like TikTok, or scroll through social media feeds and stories. It could be the elegant 2024 version of Blackberry's iconic scroll wheel.iPhone 16 Pro cameras and photos
The iPhone 16 Pro's rear camera array. James Martin/CNETIn essence, the regular iPhone 16 Pro has three new cameras. It inherits the 12-megapixel 5x telephoto camera from the Pro Max, replacing last year's 3x telephoto on the 15 Pro. It gets a new 48-megapixel ultrawide camera, and the main camera's 48-megapixel sensor gets upgraded to a faster one. And it's worth noting again that both the 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max have the same cameras.Take a look at some of my favorite photos from the iPhone 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max.
Enlarge Image
This smashing photo was taken with the 16 Pro's main camera. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
Peebles the cat catches some rays in this photo from the main camera. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
The Bay Bridge looks good in this 5x telephoto photo from the 16 Pro. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
I used the ultrawide camera to capture this photo of an open space in a downtown building. Patrick Holland/CNET
Enlarge Image
Ricotta cheese never looked better than in this 16 Pro macro photo. Patrick Holland/CNETThe higher resolution ultrawide camera allows for truly great macro photos: super close-up ones like this one of a lion dance head mask -- look at the details in that fur!
Enlarge Image
A macro photo of a lion head mask. Patrick Holland/CNETBut the ultrawide in macro mode can also grab good food snaps like this image of a Four Barrel cortado and scone.
Enlarge Image
The is a macro photo of a cortado and scone. Patrick Holland/CNETUltrawide photos look good and are closer in parity to the main camera in terms of image quality, but there's still quite a gulf between them. Check out this photo of a wine bar taken with the main camera.
Enlarge Image
Here is a wine bar photographed with the main camera. Patrick Holland/CNETAnd here's an image of the same bar taken with the ultrawide.
Enlarge Image
Here is the same wine bar take with the iPhone 16 Pro's ultrawide camera. Patrick Holland/CNETI like the contrast in the ultrawide photo, but it has less dynamic range than the main camera's image, which is also brighter. Lens flares are minimal; notice the street light (out of frame) bleeding in at the top of this photo and the small soft flare.
Enlarge Image
An ultrawide night mode photo of several buildings. Patrick Holland/CNETMain camera images have a wide dynamic range like this shot of the SoMa neighborhood in San Francisco.
Enlarge Image
This photo of the SoMa neighborhood in San Francisco was taken with the iPhone 16 Pro's main camera. Patrick Holland/CNETPhotos from the main camera have great image quality. Skin tones look wonderful. Here's a group shot of some CNET-ers backlit by a San Francisco sunset. Everyone's complexion has a nice soft glow -- maybe a tad too soft, but it's far from looking plastic-y and processed.
Enlarge Image
A group of CNET staff taken with the iPhone 16 Pro's main camera. Patrick Holland/CNETHere's a night mode photo of San Francisco's city hall taken on a foggy evening.
Enlarge Image
Here's San Francisco's city hall captured by the main camera in night mode. Patrick Holland/CNETApple overhauled its Photographic Styles, and this is one of the places where I enjoy using the camera control button the most, just swiping between styles to achieve the look I want. It reminds me to an extent of the film simulations on the Fujifilm X100VI -- not only in how these styles smartly change aspects of a photo, but for the fact that you can take control and customize each.
Enlarge Image
This is one of my favorite photos that i took with the iPhone 16 Pro. I used the Stark B&W Photographic Style. Patrick Holland/CNETWhen reviewing a photo or video in the Photos app, especially right after shooting it, you have to tap the display to see it full screen. It's not the end of the world. But when I'm filming a video and want to check a shot, it's just one more step - and sometimes in the heat of the moment, this adds friction that doesn't need to be there.iPhone 16 Pro's Audio Mix is outstanding Speaking of the Photos app, I'm impressed with the new Audio Mix feature for videos. iPhone 16 Pro videos straight out of camera already have a solid default noise-isolation feature. Audio Mix lets you adjust the audio you've recorded even more to isolate a person talking on camera, and make them sound like they're recording on a studio microphone. You can also place voices on a center audio track for film and preserve environmental sounds on a separate audio track.Watch the review video that's attached to this story to see Audio Mix in action. I recorded a video of CNET's Jessica Fierro singing and playing a guitar on a noisy rooftop. And we were blown away by how Audio Mix was able to remove city sounds, HVAC noise and wind.The iPhone 16 Pro is all about iOS 18 and A18 Pro
Here is the iPhone 16 Pro in desert titanium. James Martin/CNETOne of the best parts of the 16 Pro and Pro Max is iOS 18, which is all about personalizing your iPhone to fit your needs. Whether it's being able to move apps anywhere on the home screen, change icon colors and size or even remove app names, or add shortcuts to the Control Center, iOS wants you to customize your iPhone.The flashlight controls in the Dynamic Island are fun and useful, and being able to use any emoji or live photos sticker as a tapback in Messages is such a delight. The QR code in the Passwords app for Wi-Fi is fantastic. For more on the new iPhone software, read CNET's iOS 18 review.Powering everything on the 16 Pro series is Apple's new A18 Pro chip. In use, the 16 Pro has been peppy, and able to handle big workloads from filming copious amounts of 4K slow-mo footage to playing video games and everyday scrolling.In terms of battery, I've been primarily using the smaller 16 Pro, and it gets through a day fine. On my heaviest day of use (filming on it, having the screen at full brightness) the phone started at 6:30 a.m. with a full charge and dropped to 12% by 7 p.m. I topped it off for 15 minutes, which brought it back up to 37%, and it made it to 1 a.m. with 22% left. Check back on this review, as I will be updating it with results from CNET's battery tests.iPhone 16 Pro wrap-up
The iPhone 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max have a thinner border around the display. James Martin/CNETThe iPhone 16 Pro and 16 Pro Max have everything we've come to expect in a year-over-year upgrade. Even without Apple Intelligence, the 6.3-inch iPhone 16 Pro and 6.9-inch iPhone 16 Pro Max have a slew of upgrades including a good battery life, outstanding photo and video chops and iOS 18. And the negatives are as thin as the borders around the larger screens: You only get 128GB of storage for a grand, plus drab color options and a new camera button that might get accidentally tapped.The iPhone 16 Pro and Pro Max are excellent phones worthy of a spot in your pocket -- if you can afford them.
Check Out the iPhone 16 Pro Max's Cameras, Display and Colors
+9 More
See all photos
How we test phonesEvery phone tested by CNET's reviews team was actually used in the real world. We test a phone's features, play games and take photos. We examine the display to see if it's bright, sharp and vibrant. We analyze the design and build to see how it is to hold and whether it has an IP-rating for water resistance. We push the processor's performance to the extremes using standardized benchmark tools like GeekBench and 3DMark, along with our own anecdotal observations navigating the interface, recording high-resolution videos and playing graphically intense games at high refresh rates.All the cameras are tested in a variety of conditions from bright sunlight to dark indoor scenes. We try out special features like night mode and portrait mode and compare our findings against similarly priced competing phones. We also check out the battery life by using it daily as well as running a series of battery drain tests.We take into account additional features like support for 5G, satellite connectivity, fingerprint and face sensors, stylus support, fast charging speeds and foldable displays, among others that can be useful. We balance all of this against the price to give you the verdict on whether that phone, whatever price it is, actually represents good value. While these tests may not always be reflected in CNET's initial review, we conduct follow-up and long-term testing in most circumstances.Apple's iPhone 16 and 16 Pro lineup
Apple iPhone 16Apple iPhone 16 PlusApple iPhone 16 ProApple iPhone 16 Pro Max Display size, resolution, refresh rate 6.1-inch OLED; 2,556x1,179 pixels; 60Hz refresh rate6.7-inch OLED; 2,796x1,290 pixels; 60Hz refresh rate6.3-inch OLED; 2,622x1,206 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh rate6.9-inch OLED; 2,868x1,320 pixels; 1-120Hz adaptive refresh ratePixel density 460 ppi460 ppi460 ppi460 ppiDimensions (inches) 5.81 x 2.82 x 0.31 inches6.33 x 3.06 x 0.31 inches5.89 x 2.81 x 0.32 inches6.42 x 3.06 x 0.32 inchesDimensions (millimeters) 147.6 x 71.6 x 7.8mm160.9 x 77.8 x 7.8mm149.6 x 71.5 x 8.25mm163 x 77.6 x 8.25mmWeight (grams, ounces) 170g (6 oz)199g (7.03 oz)199g (7.03 oz)227g (7.99 oz)Mobile software iOS 18iOS 18iOS 18iOS 18Camera 48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide), 12-megapixel (ultrawide)48-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 12-megapixel (5x telephoto)48-megapixel (wide), 48-megapixel (ultrawide), 12-megapixel (5x telephoto)Front-facing camera 12-megapixel12-megapixel12-megapixel12-megapixelVideo capture 4K up to 60fps; spatial video at 1080p at 30fps4K up to 60fps; spatial video at 1080p at 30fps4K up to 120fps; spatial video at 1080p at 30fps4K up to 120fps; spatial video at 1080p at 30fpsProcessor Apple A18Apple A18Apple A18 ProApple A18 ProRAM/storage 128GB, 256GB, 512GB128GB, 256GB, 512GB128GB, 256GB, 512GB, 1TB256GB, 512GB, 1TBExpandable storage NoNoNoNoBattery Up to 22 hours video playback; up to 18 hours video playback (streamed). 20W wired charging. MagSafe wireless charging up to 25W with 30W adapter or higher; Qi2 up to 15WUp to 27 hours video playback; up to 24 hours video playback (streamed). 20W wired charging. MagSafe wireless charging up to 25W with 30W adapter or higher; Qi2 up to 15WUp to 27 hours video playback; up to 22 hours video playback (streamed). 20W wired charging. MagSafe wireless charging up to 25W with 30W adapter or higher; Qi2 up to 15WUp to 33 hours video playback; up to 29 hours video playback (streamed). 20W wired charging. MagSafe wireless charging up to 25W with 30W adapter or higher; Qi2 up to 15WFingerprint sensor None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)None (Face ID)Connector USB-CUSB-CUSB-CUSB-CHeadphone jack NoNoNoNoSpecial features Apple Intelligence, Action button, Camera Control button, Dynamic Island, 1 to 2,000 nits display brightness range, IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, pink, teal, ultramarine.Apple Intelligence, Action button, Camera Control button, Dynamic Island, 1 to 2,000 nits display brightness range, IP68 resistance. Colors: black, white, pink, teal, ultramarine. Apple Intelligence, Action button, Camera Control button, 4x audio mics, Dynamic Island, 1 to 2,000 nits display brightness range, IP68 resistance. Colors: black titanium, white titantium, natural titanium, desert titanium.Apple Intelligence, Action button, Camera Control button, 4x audio mics, Dynamic Island, 1 to 2,000 nits display brightness range, IP68 resistance. Colors: black titanium, white titantium, natural titanium, desert titanium.US price starts at $799 (128GB), $899 (256GB), $1,099 (512GB)$899 (128GB), $899 (256GB), $1,199 (512GB)$999 (128GB), $1,099 (256GB), $1,299 (512GB), $1,499 (1TB)$1,199 (256GB), $1,399 (512GB), $1,599 (1TB)UK price starts at £799 (128GB), £899 (256GB), £1,099 (512GB)£899 (128GB), £999 (256GB), £1,199 (512GB)£999 (128GB), £1,099 (256GB), £1,299 (512GB), £1,499 (1TB)£1,199 (256GB), £1,399 (512GB), £1,599 (1TB)Australia price starts at AU$1,399 (128GB), AU$1,599 (256GB), AU$1,949 (512GB)AU$1,599 (128GB), AU$1,799 (256GB), AU$2,149 (512GB)AU$1,799 (128GB), AU$1,999 (256GB), AU$2,349 (512GB), AU$2,699 (1TB)AU$2,149 (256GB), AU$2,499 (512GB), AU$2,849 (1TB)
Mobile Guides
Phones
Best iPhone
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best Phone
Best iPhone Deals
Samsung Galaxy S24 Review
Best Android Phones
Best Samsung Galaxy Phone
Pixel 8 Pro Review
iPhone 15 Pro/Pro Max Review
Best iPhone 15 Deals
Foldable Phones
Best Foldable Phones
Galaxy Z Fold 5 Review
OnePlus Open Review
Best Galaxy Z Flip Deals
Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds
Best Noise Canceling Headphones
Best Headphones
Best Over Ear Headphones
Best Wireless Earbuds and Headphones for Making Calls
Best Headphones for Work at Home
Best Noise Canceling Wireless Earbuds
Best Sounding Wireless Earbuds
Best Cheap Wireless Earbuds
Best Wireless Headphones
Mobile Accessories
Best iPhone 15 Cases
Best iPhone 14 Cases
Best Power Bank for iPhone
Best Airpods Pro Accessories
Best Magsafe iPhone Accessories
Best Speakerphone
Best Wireless Car Charger and Mount
Best iPhone Fast Charger
Best Portable Chargers and Power Banks for Android
Smartwatches
Apple Watch Series 8 vs Series 7
Best Apple Watch Bands
Best Android Smartwatch
Apple Watch Ultra Review
Best Smartwatch
Wireless Plans
Best Prepaid Phone Plans
Best Cheap Phone Plans
Best Unlimited Data Plans
Best Phone Plans
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Senior Phone Plans
Best Family Phone Plans
Best Travel Phone Plans
Best Verizon Plans
PATRICK HOLLAND
Managing Editor Patrick Holland has been a phone reviewer for CNET since 2016. He is a former theater director who occasionally makes short films. Patrick has an eye for photography and a passion for everything mobile. He is a colorful raconteur who will guide you through the ever-changing, fast-paced world of phones, especially the iPhone and iOS. He used to co-host CNET's I'm So Obsessed podcast and interviewed guests like Jeff Goldblum, Alfre Woodard, Stephen Merchant, Sam Jay, Edgar Wright and Roy Wood Jr.
See full bio
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.