Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
News
Featured
Latest
New FileFix attack uses steganography to drop StealC malware
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
New Phoenix attack bypasses Rowhammer defenses in DDR5 memory
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
BreachForums hacking forum admin resentenced to three years in prison
Get 8 courses to kickstart or advance your security career for $30
Microsoft rolls out Copilot Chat to Microsoft 365 Office apps
Google nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaign
Tutorials
Latest
Popular
How to access the Dark Web using the Tor Browser
How to enable Kernel-mode Hardware-enforced Stack Protection in Windows 11
How to use the Windows Registry Editor
How to backup and restore the Windows Registry
How to start Windows in Safe Mode
How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware
How to show hidden files in Windows 7
How to see hidden files in Windows
Virus Removal Guides
Latest
Most Viewed
Ransomware
Remove the Theonlinesearch.com Search Redirect
Remove the Smartwebfinder.com Search Redirect
How to remove the PBlock+ adware browser extension
Remove the Toksearches.xyz Search Redirect
Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide)
How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo
How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions)
How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller
Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ
CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ
CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ
Downloads
Latest
Most Downloaded
Qualys BrowserCheck
STOPDecrypter
AuroraDecrypter
FilesLockerDecrypter
AdwCleaner
ComboFix
RKill
Junkware Removal Tool
Deals
Categories
eLearning
IT Certification Courses
Gear + Gadgets
Security
VPNs
Popular
Best VPNs
How to change IP address
Access the dark web safely
Best VPN for YouTube
Forums
More
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Chat on Discord
Send us a Tip!
Welcome Guide
HomeNewsSecuritySignal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
Signal adds secure cloud backups to save and restore chats
By Sergiu Gatlan
September 8, 2025
03:17 PM
0
Signal has introduced a new opt-in feature that helps users create end-to-end encrypted backups of their chats, allowing them to restore messages even if their phones are damaged or lost.
Secure backups are already available in the latest Signal beta version for Android users and will also be rolled out to iOS and desktop devices after this testing phase.
"If you do decide to opt in to secure backups, you'll be able to securely back up all of your text messages and the last 45 days' worth of media for free. If you want to back up your media history beyond 45 days, as well as your message history, we also offer a paid subscription plan for US$1.99 per month," said Jim O'Leary, Signal's VP of Engineering.
"This is the first time we've offered a paid feature. The reason we're doing this is simple: media requires a lot of storage, and storing and transferring large amounts of data is expensive."
The free tier includes 100 MiB of message storage, covering photos, videos, GIFs, files, and other attachments, while the storage size limit for paid backups is 100 GB.
Signal secure backups (Signal)
​After you enable secure backups from the Signal Settings menu, your device will automatically back up your chats daily (excluding messages scheduled to disappear within the next 24 hours and view-once messages), replacing the previous day's archive.
When enabling secure backups, Signal generates a 64-character recovery key on the device, which will never be shared with Signal and will be the only way to decrypt backups when restoring your messages.
"Your recovery key is the only way to 'unlock' your backup when you need to restore access to your messages. Losing it means losing access to your backup permanently, and Signal cannot help you recover it. You can generate a new key if you choose," O'Leary added.
In January, Signal introduced end-to-end encrypted synchronization of old messages from their primary iOS or Android devices to newly linked devices, such as iPads and desktop computers.
Four months later, it enabled 'screen security' by default on all Windows 11 devices, a feature designed to protect users' privacy by blocking Microsoft's AI-powered Recall feature from taking screenshots of their conversations.
Last year, Signal also announced that users could choose custom usernames to connect with others and hide their phone numbers.
Picus Blue Report 2025 is Here: 2X increase in password cracking
46% of environments had passwords cracked, nearly doubling from 25% last year.
Get the Picus Blue Report 2025 now for a comprehensive look at more findings on prevention, detection, and data exfiltration trends.
Get the Blue Report 2025
Related Articles:
WhatsApp adds new security feature to protect against scamsGoogle nukes 224 Android malware apps behind massive ad fraud campaignSamsung patches actively exploited zero-day reported by WhatsAppPixel 10 fights AI fakes with new Android photo verification techGoogle fixes actively exploited Android flaws in September update
Android
Backup
Chat
Messenger
Signal
Sergiu Gatlan
Sergiu is a news reporter who has covered the latest cybersecurity and technology developments for over a decade. Email or Twitter DMs for tips.
Previous Article
Next Article
Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now
You may also like:
Popular Stories
Microsoft to force install the Microsoft 365 Copilot app in October
Microsoft says Windows September updates break SMBv1 shares
Google confirms fraudulent account created in law enforcement portal
Sponsor Posts
Your cyberattack survival kit: clarity, control and guaranteed recovery
The Buyer's Guide to Browser Extension Management
Unlock the secret weapon for team loyalty, reduced turnover, and employee empowerment.
SecAlerts delivers relevant, up-to-the-minute vulnerability alerts directly to you
Overdue a password health-check? Audit your Active Directory for free
Follow us:
Main Sections
News
VPN Buyer Guides
SysAdmin Software Guides
Downloads
Virus Removal Guides
Tutorials
Startup Database
Uninstall Database
Glossary
Community
Forums
Forum Rules
Chat
Useful Resources
Welcome Guide
Sitemap
Company
About BleepingComputer
Contact Us
Send us a Tip!
Advertising
Write for BleepingComputer
Social & Feeds
Changelog
Terms of Use
-
Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement - Affiliate Disclosure
Copyright @ 2003 - 2025
Bleeping Computer® LLC
-
All Rights Reserved
Login
Username
Password
Remember Me
Sign in anonymously
Sign in with Twitter
Not a member yet? Register Now
Reporter
Help us understand the problem. What is going on with this comment?
Spam
Abusive or Harmful
Inappropriate content
Strong language
Other
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
Submitting...
SUBMIT