I Run an AI Company and I'd Happily Pay $100K for a H-1B Hire - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Tech
I'd happily pay $100,000 for an H-1B hire to get the best talent for my AI company. It's part of the cost of doing business.
As told to
Charissa Cheong
Shahriar Tajbakhsh said Metaview is planning to continue expanding its team in the US despite the H-1B rule changes.
Courtesy of Metaview
2025-09-22T21:20:15Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
When Trump announced a $100,000 fee for new H-1B visas on Friday, one startup cofounder wasn't concerned.
Shahriar Tajbakhsh told BI he's willing to pay the fee to hire the best talent at his AI company.
The company, founded in London, plans to continue to expand in the US in the coming months.
This as-told-to essay is based on a conversation with 34-year-old Shahriar Tajbakhsh, the CTO and cofounder of the AI recruitment platform Metaview, who lives between San Francisco and London. The following has been edited for length and clarity.
I woke up around 5:30 a.m. on Saturday in London and saw an email from lawyers with "urgent notice" in the subject line.We had an employee who was supposed to enter the US in the coming days after their H-1B visa petition was approved earlier in the year. The lawyers outlined President Trump's executive order issuing changes to H-1B visa rules, including that companies would need to pay a $100,000 fee per H-1B employee.
It was hard to fully understand the situation at first, but I wasn't particularly concerned. The people we hire create so much value for our company that $100,000 is truly a rounding error.Our company is looking to expand in the US, and we plan to submit more H-1B petitions in the next lottery. One executive order will not change my belief that an organization's success or failure is a function of its people.
Do you have experience with the H-1B visa program? Business Insider wants to hear from you. Please fill out this quick form.
I'm relocating to the US to expand our business thereIn 2018, a friend and former colleague and I started Metaview together, which uses AI to help recruiters be more productive.
We have so far raised around $50 million. There are between 30 and 40 people in our team: Roughly two-thirds are based in Europe and one-third in the US, but we're aiming to make the ratio 50/50 over the next six months.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
We started the company in London, and opened our San Francisco office in August to tap into both talent markets.I'm in the process of relocating there, while my cofounder will lead the London office. I went through the EB-1A visa process, and my petition was approved. Earlier this year, we tried to sponsor three H-1B visas, but only one was allotted in the lottery.
The $100,000 fee doesn't put me off hiring H-1B workersBefore it became clear that the fee would only apply to new H-1B petitions, large companies advised their H-1B employees not to leave the US and to immediately fly back if they were abroad.When I first heard the news, my first question wasn't "What can we do to not get impacted?" but "Where can I pay the $100,000 fee for my colleague?" so they could land in the US and get to work.As time went on, it became clear that our employee wasn't affected by the changes. They're relocating as planned.
In a LinkedIn post, I wrote that people could come work for us in San Francisco instead of moving to another country. It's all very fresh, and no offers have been accepted yet, but we've been humbled by the thousands of candidates who've been in touch with us. The H1-B visa change hasn't changed our strategy to expand in the USWe spend so much time trying to attract talent, because when you're building a company, you don't have everything figured out. Every person who joins our company will be instrumental. A team of like-minded, ambitious people and their perspectives will generate new ideas.
Tajbakhsh said Metaview plans to make up to 50 new hires in the US next year.
Courtesy of Metaview
When you sum up the value created by people's hard work, $100,000 just doesn't matter. The only way to build anything meaningful that changes people's lives is to have a world-class team — there's no shortcut around that. Trying to save money on talent is the most irresponsible thing a founder could possibly do.
We're planning to make up to 50 hires in the US in the next year, and I expect that we'll be applying for around 24 H-1B visas in the next lottery. Financially, that seems completely possible to me, pulling from investment. As a company, we spend a large amount of our money on talent anyway, and so far our investors have been supportive.One of our investors, Jonathan Heilliger, who was formerly an exec at Facebook, reshared my LinkedIn post about the H-1B news, and said many employers are failing the "personality test" that the H-1B changes have created.It's too early to tell what the impact of the changes will beI can imagine that some early-stage companies may need to change their hiring strategy based on the $100,000 fee, but I don't think we should jump to conclusions about the impact of the changes yet. Some AI and software roles may not even be affected because they're in the national interest, and the executive order mentioned potential exemptions for this.
It's very easy to jump to conclusions, but I think it's important for every founder not to get distracted. I'd rather focus on myself and the things I have control over and wait for more information. Whether there is or isn't a fee is not in our control; we'll make the most of it in either scenario. Do you have a story to share about taking a career break? Contact this reporter at ccheong@businessinsider.com.
Recommended video
as told to
Trump
Trump administration
More
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account