Is this rugged Android phone with a 22,000mAh legit? My verdict after a week of stress tests | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET independently tests and researches products to bring you our best recommendations and advice. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Is this rugged Android phone with a 22,000mAh legit? My verdict after a week of stress tests
The Doogee S200 Max proves you can have extreme durability and performance in one package (but don't expect a lightweight device).
Written by
Adrian Kingsley-Hughes, Senior Contributing EditorSenior Contributing Editor
Sept. 23, 2025 at 7:05 a.m. PT
Doogee S200 Max
ZDNET's key takeaways The Doogee S200 Max is on sale now for $750.It's a super chunky handset that won't fit in your pockets, but it's incredibly durable, passing IP68/IP69K and MIL-STD-810H standards.It's not exactly cheap, and you have to be a certain user to carry a phone this durable. $799.99 at Amazon Best mobile deals of the week
Samsung Galaxy A36 5G 128GB Unlocked Phone (Awesome Black):  $350 (save $50)
Samsung Galaxy S24 FE 128GB Unlocked AI Phone (Gray):  $525 (save $125)
Moto G Stylus 5G 256GB Unlocked Phone(2024 Model, Caramel Latte):  $300 (save $100)
Apple iPhone 14 128GB Unlocked Phone (Refurbished, Midnight):  $338 (save $291) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.I remember when companies such as Doogee started making ruggedized Android smartphones that were more at home on a construction site. They were big, bulky, and, well, not all that impressive in the performance department.That's all changed, as I'm now seeing ruggedized Android handsets that cram a lot of performance into that tough outer. The Doogee S200 Max is one such handset.Also: I test dozens of Android phones every year: How the Google Pixel 10 Pro stacks upAptly named, everything about the S200 Max has been turned up to the max. This Android 15, 5G-enabled smartphone features a big 6.72-inch 2,400 x 1,080 pixel (2.4K) display that can hit 120Hz refresh rate. But this isn't the only screen -- on the back is a 1.3-inch IPS always-on secondary screen that allows you to peek at things like notifications, the time and date, and battery status without having to be distracted by the big display.
ZDNET RECOMMENDS Doogee S200 Max This handset has it all - powerful processor, great display, massive battery, brilliant camera array, and a secondary display on the back, all built into a tough, ruggedized shell.
details
View at Amazon Running the show is a 6-nanometer octa-core MediaTek Dimensity 7050 processor, running at up to 2.6GHz and a whopping 16GB of RAM, which can be further augmented by 20GB of virtual RAM (my usual advice is to set the virtual RAM to the max for the best performance, but in this case it's been done for me), and 512GB of storage. And if that gets a bit tight, you can bump this up with a microSD card.Performance-wise, the S200 Max felt buttery-smooth no matter what I threw at it. I usually have to wait a bit for a smartphone to complete its housekeeping tasks after first turning it on and setting it up, but this handset was straight to business, and effortlessly handled running a myriad of apps and browsers with dozens of tabs open.
The secondary display on the back of the S200 Max is handy. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNETPowering this huge handset is a 22,000mAh ultra-large battery that offers a massive 1,200 hours of standby power (that's 50 days of standby) or 30 hours of web browsing. Try that with your iPhone 17 Pro Max!The huge battery makes the S200 Max more a power bank with a phone attached, and Doogee is well aware, which is why the handset supports 18W reverse charging, so you can get your friends out of a battery pickle with their smartphone, camera, drone or whatever. The battery can be charged at up to 66W, and that this power you can go from flat to full in two hours.Also: My search for the most durable USB-C cable is over - this one passes my brick testThis is one of the very few smartphones where I rarely have to think about battery life. In fact, I'm actually surprised when it needs charging! And before you ask, yes, there are cameras galore on the S200 Max. On the back there's three: a 108-megapixel main camera (this is a quad-Bayer sensor that uses four pixels instead of one to perform better under low-light conditions), a 20-megapixel night vision camera, and a 2-megapixel macro camera. And on the front is 32-megapixel camera to handle selfies and video conferencing.
The night vision camera with active infrared floodlight is very effective. Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET As is always the case with non-flagship handsets, the cameras are more than adequate for what users want -- mostly capturing photos and video for social media. You don't get the cinematic punch that you get with an iPhone or latest Samsung Galaxy, but even that's wasted on social media because images and videos are compressed and downscaled to conserve storage space and bandwidth.Everything is packed into a tough outer that's rated for IP68/IP69K and MIL-STD-810H, and it can resist immersion in six feet of water for a day, drops from over 3-foot, dirt, dust, humidity, and pretty much anything else Mother Nature can throw at it.Also: This $30 multitool took on way more than I thought it could (and it fits in my pocket)On the side is one of my favorite Android features -- a fingerprint reader to handle all the biometrics. Last but definitely not least, on the top is a twin-LED flashlight that is, no joke, one of the brightest I've seen on a smartphone. I made the mistake of looking into it in broad daylight and I was seeing after-images for several minutes. It's crazy bright, and it was only later that I discovered it was only at 60% power.
There's nothing subtle about the S200 Max! Adrian Kingsley-Hughes/ZDNET Just be aware of its bulk. The device isn't small, measuring 7.1 x 3.2 x 1 inches (yes, this is a one-inch-thick smartphone), weighing 1.2 pounds. It's a truly behemoth of a smartphone and there's nothing subtle about the S200 Max. Unless you have a bag or big, huge cargo pockets or a belt to hang this phone from, you're going to be carrying it because this baby isn't fitting into your pockets. ZDNET's buying adviceThe Doogee S200 Max is one of those handsets that isn't for everyone. You need a certain kind of user who wants a phone that is an inch thick, weighs well over a pound, and doesn't fit in normal pockets. But for those who need durability and performance and battery life that goes on and on and on, this is a handset to consider. At $470, it's not exactly cheap, but for those who need a combination of rugged, fantastic battery life, and good performance, this is up there as one of the best handsets you can buy. Featured reviews
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
iPhone Air vs. iPhone 17 Pro? How to decide between Apple's two best models
Why I recommend this $2,000 mirrorless camera to both beginners and professionals
This is the most durable USB-C cable I've ever tested - and it charges at 100W
I replaced my Samsung S25 Ultra with the Pixel 10 Pro XL for weeks - and don't regret it
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Want the Pixel 10 Pro? I recommend buying these 5 phones instead - here's why
iPhone Air vs. Samsung S25 Edge: I compared the two ultra-slim phones, and here's the winner
Why Apple's new iPhone Air looks so much like an Android (it's not all in your head)
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use