Slow Android phone? Changing these 4 settings revitalized my whole system | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Smartphones
Slow Android phone? Changing these 4 settings revitalized my whole system
A few quick taps and swipes are all it takes to make your old phone feel brand new.
Written by
Prakhar Khanna, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 2:00 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.As a person who covers consumer tech for a living, I get to use a few dozen smartphones every year. While I almost always advise on which is the new best smartphone, the majority of consumers don't upgrade every year. I have friends and family who tell me they don't want to upgrade and ask, "How can I make my current phone faster?" I finally have an answer.Also: I test dozens of Android phones every year: Here's how Google, Samsung, and more stack upI don't get to use review devices for long, but I have picked up tips and tricks from years of experience that can help boost the speed of your old Android phone. Before you ask, it doesn't involve rooting your device. These tips are easy to implement for both tech-savvy consumers and the average Joe. If your Android phone has started feeling slow, you should primarily focus on clearing its storage. And if you're unsure about where to begin, here are a few things you can do to make your old Android phone faster.1. Delete unused apps
Kerry Wan/ZDNETOver time, phones can collect a lot of unused apps and leave you with a cluttered space. You might have used a QR scanner app from a restaurant on your years-old trip or a photo editing app that is no longer in use. It is best to uninstall such apps to clear space on your Android phone. Also: I found a Google Maps alternative that won't track you or drain your battery - and it's freeDecluttering your Android phone can make it faster because it won't need to allocate resources to apps that are no longer in use. Uninstalling such APKs will lead to better resource management and thus, a faster phone. You can go to Settings > Storage > Apps to see the list of installed apps and uninstall the ones you don't need anymore. On the app screen, you can also long-press on such forgotten apps and go to App Info > Uninstall.2. Clear more storageOld Android phones tend to collect a lot of junk, whether it be through files or long-forgotten photos of school notes. After deleting unused apps, you should aim to clear space by going through the files and photos saved on your Android phone. Also: How to clear your Android phone cache (and why it's the easiest way to speed it up)You can go to your phone's File app to check what's saved. The Downloads folder often houses the most junk from long-forgotten PDF files, photos, etc. There are two more spaces you should check to clear the storage.Offload photos from your phone and save them to an external drive or the cloud. This helps create a backup of your memories and clear space on your old Android phone.Clear the app cache. For the unaware, cache is bits of data that an app saves so it is quicker to operate the next time you open it. I recommend clearing the cache for less-used apps with no saved login information. You can go to Settings > Storage > App > Clear Cache to save more space.3. Check for updates
Kerry Wan/ZDNETMake sure your Android phone is up to date on the OS front. Keeping it up to date will make it snappier and install the latest security protocols. You can go to Settings > General > System Update to check and install the latest available software version. Also: I changed 12 settings on my Android phone to instantly extend the battery lifeOnce you have removed the uninstalled apps and updated your old Android phone to the latest OS version, you should go to the Google Play Store and update the remaining apps. It is important to use the latest available versions of these apps to have access to the latest features, better performance, and improved security.4. Bonus: Adjust the animation speed
June Wan/ZDNETYou can enable or disable a few settings to make your phone feel faster, including Developer options to change the animation speed. This is slightly more complicated than the rest of the settings mentioned above, but it can make your phone feel significantly faster. You need to enable Developer options by going to Settings > About phone > Tap on Software information > and then tap your Build number seven times. This should enable the Developer options, so you can now access different animation scale settings.Now, go to the Drawing section within Developer options and scroll down until you find the Window animation scale. Tap on it and set the animation to 0.5x, so apps and window pop-ups run faster.Also: Android phone feeling slow? How I changed one setting to instantly double the speedYou can also adjust the Transition animation scale to minimize the speed of moving between home screen panels and within apps. Plus, minimize the Animator duration scale to make opening and closing apps, unlocking the phone, and other general UI animations snappier.Changing these settings will give your old Android phone a new life. Once adjusted, it should feel faster, with added zip in day-to-day tasks. If you want to give it a refresh, I recommend messing around with your home screen, changing the wallpaper, and adjusting more settings to help it last longer. Featured
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
AirPods Pro 3 review: Apple pulled off something I thought impossible in a pair of earbuds
Can't upgrade your Windows 10 PC? You have 5 options - and just weeks to act
iPhone 17 Pro Max vs. Google Pixel 10 Pro XL: I compared both and here's the winner
I did 24 days of coding in 12 hours with a $20 AI tool - but there's one big pitfall
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Changing these 12 settings on my Android phone extended its battery life by hours
I changed 6 settings on my Roku TV to significantly improved the performance
Changing these 7 settings on my Samsung phone greatly extended its battery life
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use