Meet FyreFest's New Owners - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Netherlands
Polska
Get the app
Culture
Meet Fyre Festival's new owners
By
Kwan Wei Kevin Tan
Julian and Paul Zehetmayr are the co-CEOs of LimeWire, a file-sharing service that paid $245,300 for the Fyre Festival's branding rights.
Johnny Nunez/WireImage via Getty Images
2025-09-19T02:42:05Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Fyre Festival founder and CEO Billy McFarland sold the event's branding rights in an eBay auction.
LimeWire, a file-sharing service that was once a hotbed for illegal downloads, won that auction.
LimeWire outbid Ryan Reynolds' ad agency, Maximum Effort, for the rights and paid $245,300.
When Billy McFarland, the founder and CEO of the failed Fyre Festival, said he had auctioned the branding rights to the event on eBay in July, he did not mention who had bought it.
Two months later, the mysterious buyer of the infamous event has finally come forward to claim their purchase.The file-sharing service company LimeWire said in a statement on Tuesday that it had officially acquired the Fyre Festival brand "after a competitive bidding process" that included Ryan Reynolds' viral ad agency, Maximum Effort.
"Fyre became a symbol of hype gone wrong, but it also made history," Julian Zehetmayr, the co-CEO of LimeWire, said on Tuesday."We're not bringing the festival back — we're bringing the brand and the meme back to life. This time with real experiences, and without the cheese sandwiches," he added.When approached for comment, Zehetmayr told Business Insider that they had started negotiating a potential acquisition for the event's branding rights even before the eBay auction, but the talks fell through.
"A few weeks later, we then ended up being the highest bidder on eBay," Zehetmayr said.Zehetmayr said McFarland and the former Fyre Festival team will not be involved with the event after its acquisition. Instead, Limewire's in-house teams in Vienna and London will run it by themselves, he added.McFarland did not respond to a request for comment from Business Insider.
The Fyre Festival gained notoriety after festival attendees were greeted with a sight resembling a disaster drill when they arrived in the Bahamas in April 2017.Instead of villas and gourmet meals, guests were housed in FEMA disaster relief tents and served unappetizing cheese sandwiches. Bahamian locals who worked as caterers and laborers for the event said they were not paid their salaries.McFarland pleaded guilty to two counts of wire fraud related to the festival in 2018. He was sentenced to six years in prison and ordered to pay $26 million to investors, festival attendees, and vendors.
In March 2022, McFarland was released from prison early. He initially touted a sequel to the Fyre Festival in 2023 but eventually decided to sell the event's branding rights in April.
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
The auction on eBay drew 175 bids and was ultimately sold for $245,300."Damn. This sucks. It's so low," he said of the final sale price during a July livestream.
It is unclear what plans LimeWire has for the Fyre Festival. The file-sharing service was founded by Wall Street trader Mark Gorton in 2000 and became a hotbed for illegal downloads.LimeWire was shut down in 2010 after a court ruled that it had committed copyright infringement.Zehetmayr and his brother, Paul, first relaunched LimeWire as an NFT marketplace in 2022 before turning it into a file-sharing service again.
LimeWire said in its statement on Tuesday that it would "unveil a reimagined vision for Fyre" in the next few months. The company added that it would expand the brand "beyond the digital realm" and into the real world.As of press time, visitors to the Fyre Festival website can sign up for an email waitlist to receive updates. Fyre Festival-branded merchandise, such as T-shirts, hoodies, caps, and bags, is also being sold on the website's store.LimeWire's chief operating officer, Marcus Feistl, told Business Insider that while the team is still in the planning stage, their goal is "to eventually host something physical" down the line.
"We believe Fyre should stay close to its original vision rather than become something completely different," Feistl said.September 18, 10:40 p.m. — This story has been updated with comments from Julian Zehetmayr, the co-CEO of LimeWire, and Marcus Feistl, LimeWire's chief operating officer.
Recommended video
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
NL
PL
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account