Blue Apron Review: 3 CNET Editors Test the Popular Meal Kit Service - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
This Mom Is Getting Back Into Running Shape With Fitness Apps and Tech
03
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
04
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessNutrition Meal Kits
Blue Apron Review: 3 CNET Editors Test the Popular Meal Kit Service
A meal kit expert, a wellness editor and a cooking newbie tried Blue Apron meal kits for a week. Here's what we thought.
Article updated on April 24, 2025 at 6:00 AM PDT
Our Experts
Written by
David Watsky
Written by
Anna Gragert
Written by
Corin Cesaric
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
David Watsky Senior Editor / Home and Kitchen David lives in Brooklyn where he's spent more than a decade covering all things edible, including meal kit services, food subscriptions, kitchen tools and cooking tips.
David earned his BA from Northeastern and has toiled in nearly every aspect of the food business, including as a line cook in Rhode Island where he once made a steak sandwich for Lamar Odom.
Right now he's likely somewhere stress-testing a blender or tinkering with a toaster. Anything with sesame is his all-time favorite food this week. Expertise Kitchen tools | Appliances | Food science | Subscriptions | Meal kits
See full bio
Anna Gragert Wellness Editor II Anna Gragert (she/her/hers) was previously the lifestyle editor at HelloGiggles, deputy editor at So Yummy and senior lifestyle editor at Hunker. Over the past 10+ years, Anna has also written for the L.A. Times, Elle, Bust Magazine, Dazed, Apartment Therapy, Well+Good and more, focusing on all things lifestyle, health and wellness. Expertise Mental health, Personal care, Nutrition, Sleep
See full bio
Corin Cesaric Editor Corin Cesaric is a Flex Editor at CNET. She received her bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri-Columbia. Before joining CNET, she covered crime at People Magazine and national and international news at NBC Local Television Stations. Expertise Home | Health | Energy | Climate Change | AI | Appliances
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
16171819202122232425+ Years of Experience 14151617181920212223 Hands-on Product Reviewers 6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,000 Sq. Feet of Lab Space
How we test
CNET’s expert staff reviews and rates dozens of new products and services each month, building on more than a quarter century of expertise.
9.0/ 10
SCORE Blue Apron
Buy at Blue Apron
Price
Starts at $8 per serving
Type
Meal kit
Recipes per week 20
Good for
Pescatarian, diabetes-friendly, low-calorie, picky eaters, families, quick meals.
Sample menu
Pork belly fried rice; Lemon-caper salmon; Poblano and sausage gnocchi
Shipping cost
$10
Minimum order
2 meal kits
Delivery frequency
Weekly
Pros
Good balance of comfort food and healthy recipes
Standard plan includes steak and seafood recipes
Good valu if you order a large plan
Eco-friendly packaging
Cons
Doesn't allow for much customization
Expensive if you only order two meals per week
Extra $10 for shipping
No vegan options
Table of Contents
Blue Apron Review: 3 CNET Editors Test the Popular Meal Kit Service
How Blue Apron works
How much does Blue Apron cost?
What Blue Apron meals are like
What we cooked and how it went
Prepared and ready meals
What our editors thought of the service
Who should try Blue Apron?
Packaging and environmental friendliness
The final verdict
2025
Meal kits aren't a one-size-fits-all service, and there are dozens of meal delivery options to pick from. That's why we enlisted a trio of CNET editors -- one meal kit expert, one wellness editor and one editor who is new to cooking -- to test and review Blue Apron and all the leading meal kits from three unique perspectives. Blue Apron was our former top pick for best meal kit in 2025, but we've put three critical eyes to the popular meal-by-mail operation to see how it stands up to a health-focused, plant-based eater, a cooking newbie looking to hone her skills and an experienced meal kit tester with over 100 recipes under his belt.As in previous rounds of testing, Blue Apron ticks a lot of boxes. It offers good value with steak and seafood recipes alongside other tempting meal kits, including vegetarian options, each week for the same price or lower than other midrange meal kits. While all three of us enjoyed our test (or retest) of the service, it might not be a home run for every type of home cook.Best Meal Kits and Meal Delivery Services for 2025
See at Cnet
Read on for our three-headed review of the popular meal delivery service.
Steak and seafood recipes at no additional cost are Blue Apron's ace in the hole.
David Watsky/CNETHow Blue Apron works
If you've used any meal kit service, Blue Apron operates differently than most others in the category since no subscription is required. You'll start by plugging in your email and selecting meal kits or prepared meals to buy. You can choose meal kits for two or four people and order as many or few as you like. There's a $10 shipping cost for each delivery.Ordering meals and changing orders through the app is easy
You can do just about anything you need through the Blue Apron app, including changing and canceling orders and tracking your shipments. Between the website interface and mobile app, Blue Apron makes it easy to skip weeks, change out recipes or pause your subscription (if you choose a recurring order). Any changes must be made six days before the next delivery date.
How much does Blue Apron cost?
If you're a couple looking for two or four recipes per week, Blue Apron meals break down to $8 or $14 a serving. Choose recipes for four people -- good for families and those looking for leftovers to eat throughout the week.Beyond offering high-end recipes for a good price, Blue Apron is the most environmentally friendly meal kit service with a lower overall carbon footprint than grocery shopping. Speaking of groceries, we did the math, and using Blue Apron is also about as cheap -- sometimes cheaper -- than buying all those groceries yourself.
What Blue Apron meals are like
Most Blue Apron meals are healthy, with lean proteins, fresh vegetables and healthy grains. On the side of the shipping box, there is now a Produce Origin List showing where all of the fruits and veggies comes from. If you want to splurge a little, there's always a pasta dish or two, along with comfort foods such as meatloaf with mashed potatoes or French bread pizza.
Blue Apron now features a produce origin list on the side of each box. Anna Gragert/CNETBlue Apron's standard weekly menu includes recipes that other meal kit services would classify as premium. There is often a steak recipe or some fish like trout, salmon or tilapia. Of all the services I've tested, Blue Apron also had the most interesting steak and seafood recipes available in the standard plan. I cooked an excellent bavette steak and a memorable garlic shrimp dish, both of which cost less through Blue Apron than they would have if I bought the ingredients myself.
Blue Apron's steak and seafood recipes are the best I've had from a standard meal kit plan. David Watsky/CNETBlue Apron incorporates interesting spice mixes, sauces and side dishes that you might not find with other meal kit services. Photogenic Romanesco broccoli is paired with tofu Banh Mi sandwiches, for instance, or a pan-seared steak dish is served with crispy gnocchi instead of been-there-done-that mashed potatoes.
How easy are Blue Apron meals to prepare?
Blue Apron meals are mostly easy to prepare and don't require any fancy cooking training or prolonged kitchen experience. Some more involved recipes like the mushroom risotto take up to 45 minutes, but most are between 25 and 35 minutes from start to finish.
One thing our wellness editor Anna Gragert liked most about the Blue Apron meal kits is that all of the sauce packets have cut lines that are easy to open, which can save time and be helpful for someone with a dexterity disability. The packaging is also labeled with the weight of the ingredients, making them easy to identify.
My Blue Apron box laid out on the counter. Anna Gragert/CNETOur flex editor Corin Cesaric who is new to cooking appreciated that the meals were fairly simple to cook, but didn't seem overly simple. Meaning they still boasted unique flavors and looked impressive when they were plated up.
Despite my status as a new home cook I made this seared salmon with cumin and Sichuan glaze. Corin Cesaric/CNETWith less experience under her belt, our new to cooking editor loved that Blue Apron did have her cooking up ancho chile-marinated steak fajita bowls and seafood for the very first time. Her favorite meal of the week, though, was the sesame-hoisin chicken and rice bowl with bok choy, which had the perfect crunch thanks to a bit of cornstarch sprinkled on the chicken and crushed up peanuts. Although the recipes did say they range between 30 and 40 minutes to cook, they did take her closer to an hour with preparation included, but she was still satisfied with the time frame. After all, she is still perfecting her chopping skills.Oven-ready meals require less than 10 minutes of work
The oven-ready meals are the fastest to prepare and usually require only combining ingredients into a baking tray and sticking the whole thing in the oven to cook. My Thai coconut curry chicken meal with rice and green beans took no more than five minutes of actual labor, and then another 45 to cook.
Blue Apron's oven-ready meals take almost no time to prepare. Just combine the ingredients and pop them into the oven. David Watsky/CNETIn a previous round of testing, I tried Blue Apron's Super Bowl meal kit recipes, which were meant for a group, so some of those took a bit longer, such as the chicken bacon ranch flatbread pizza. Others from the Super Bowl spread, including the spinach and artichoke dip and steak lettuce wraps, took less than 25 minutes to whip up.
Is Blue Apron good for vegetarians?After having tested four vegetarian meals from Blue Apron, our wellness editor, a vegetarian of 20 years, found that the meal kit service is good for vegetarians. She was impressed with the variety and veggie-friendly flexibility these recipes provided, along with how fresh the produce tasted. The sauces Blue Apron created for each vegetarian dish were incredible, and she appreciated that spice could be adjusted based on your preference. While Blue Apron's recipes do have you season every layer of the dish, she was mindful about how much salt she added to reduce her sodium intake.
Nutrition information is made readily available. Blue ApronIs Blue Apron healthy?According to our wellness editor, Blue Apron offers nutritionist-approved, Weight Watchers-recommended and vegetarian-friendly recipes, so there is a good variety of dietary options for those concerned about their health. The recipes also include fresh produce, healthy grains (like farro), different protein options and a nice variety of ingredients. However, she recommends checking your recipe's nutrition label online to make sure you're not adding too much salt to the dish and that it works for your specific diet. She found the recipes to be easily adjustable, especially for vegetarians and those trying to reduce their sodium intake. What we cooked and how it went
All the makings for cauliflower shawarma, one of Blue Apron's hearty plant-based recipes. David Watsky/CNETWe tried 12 Blue Apron recipes in total. Three were from the current Signature Meal and three were from a previous test of standard recipes in 2022. Our wellness editor notes that her box was delivered to a next-door neighbor, so she recommends paying close attention to your tracking info so your box doesn't end up sitting outside for too long. Our flex editor also tried three recipes, plus two prepared and ready meals, and had no issues with packaging or delivery.In all of our deliveries,
Blue Apron boxes arrived undamaged with everything neatly packaged. Produce, fish, meat and other ingredients all seemed fresh, except for one red pepper that had some signs that it was past its prime -- but it was still very much usable. Nothing was missing, although Blue Apron had made one replacement, swapping flank steaks for bistro steaks to ensure a timely delivery. The customer service team even notified me of the change beforehand via email. Spoiler alert: The flank steaks were superb.
Signature recipes
Bavette steak with caper aioli, potatoes and kale: This dish turned out wonderfully and felt like such a bargain for the per-serving price. The steak, which I must modestly admit I cooked perfectly, was restaurant quality: tender, flavorful and not the least bit tough or stringy.
Bavette steak with potatoes and kale. David Watsky/CNETChicken thighs in Thai peanut curry with rice and green beans (oven-ready meal): This meal required about five minutes of prep -- mostly putting all the ingredients in the aluminum tray -- and then baking for 45 minutes. I feared the green beans would be mushy, but they weren't. The rice was a tad softer than I like it, so I would probably pull back the cooking time on this one to about 40 minutes.
This oven-ready recipe of chicken in Thai coconut curry over rice with green beans could not have been easier to prepare. The perfect thing for a busy weeknight. David Watsky/CNETGarlic shrimp over Spanish-style potatoes: This was the fastest meal to make, and also one of my favorites. It wasn't overly heavy but plenty filling. It was full of fresh garlic and toasty spices.
Garlic shrimp over Spanish-style potatoes. David Watsky/CNETGochujang steak lettuce cups: This one was also tasty and easy as heck. The steak was tender and the gochujang (a sweet and spicy Korean barbecue sauce) was a total smash. It took less than 20 minutes from start to finish.
The plant-based cauliflower shwarma was one of my favorite recipes of the bunch. David Watsky/CNETShawarma cauliflower grain bowls: I liked this recipe. Any time a recipe can make me forget I'm eating something healthy, I call it a big success, and that's what happened here. It did take a solid 35 minutes to prepare, but well worth it and the portions were plentiful.
Special skills include searing scallops.  David Watsky/CNETPan-seared scallops with capers, pickled peppers and orange salsa (premium meal): If this recipe sounds like a chaotic mess of competing flavors all jousting for dominance, that's because it is. It's a clear-cut example of one of Blue Apron's big swings but it was a swing and a miss for me. On the bright side, the scallops were fresh. On the flip side, I ruined fresh scallops. Steak fajita bowls with cilantro sour cream: This meal was delicious and fairly simple to make. It took the longest to cook, but was well worth it in the end. The ancho chile paste marinated the steaks nicely while I prepared the additional ingredients.
The steak in this meal was delicious and tender thanks to the marinade. Corin Cesaric/CNETSesame-hoisin chicken: This was a hit in my house and was quite simple to prepare. Once the veggies are prepped up, the cooking process was impressively easy and the recipe helps get the timing right.
Sesame-hoisin chicken with bok choy and peanuts Corin Cesaric/CNETSeared salmon & cumin Sichuan glaze: The quality of the salmon was great, and it was a generous amount. This editor appreciated that the simple recipe also included the internal temperature needed for salmon, since she had never cooked it before. Vegetarian Blue Apron recipesWhite bean and veggie grain bowls: This meal was quick (15-20 minutes), easy to prepare (especially since the farro was already cooked) and delicious. Our wellness editor loved the red pepper pesto. As someone who can't handle a lot of spice, she appreciated that she could control the amount of Calabrian chile paste added. She was also careful about how much salt she added, since the nutrition info states that the dish is 62% of your daily value. On the plus side, it has 82% of your daily fiber and 50% of your daily value of iron, along with 25g of protein. If you remove the goat cheese, this would be a great vegan meal.
Anna Gragert/CNETRoasted cauliflower and farro salad: This meal took longer, about 40 minutes, because the farro had to cook and the Romaneso cauliflower required roasting in the oven. However, it was worth it in the end because this was our wellness editor's favorite recipe. The tahini yogurt sauce, which only required mixing the sauce packets together, was incredibly flavorful and really elevated the dish. She loved adding the lemon slices as a thoughtful garnish. Some interesting nutrition facts: 27 grams of protein, 57% daily value of dietary fiber, 72% daily value of vitamin A and 120% daily value of vitamin C (111mg). The latter shouldn't be an issue, unless you consume over 2,000 mg/day.
Blue Apron's roasted cauliflower and farro salad with feta and tahini. Anna Gragert/CNETLoaded veggie burritos: This was a great, filling vegetarian burrito that took about 40 minutes. It came with tomatillo sauce, sour cream and a cheddar-Monterey Jack cheese blend. Interestingly, the recipe also included brown sugar, which our wellness editor didn't mind, but her partner thought made it too sweet. Our wellness editor's notes that her partner cooked this meal and had two difficulties: getting the long-grain white rice to cook properly and not burning the burritos when browning them in a pan while attempting to melt and crisp the cheese at the same time. This likely comes down to variability in gas stoves. He was also careful about the amount of salt added, since the recipe's nutrition label states that one serving is 75% of your daily value. On the other hand, you get 50% of your daily value of dietary fiber and 30g of protein.
This plant-based burrito was big and satisfying. Anna Gragert/CNETThai-style curry noodles: This recipe can be made with chicken, but Blue Apron provided eggs and red bell pepper for the vegetarian version. It took around 35 minutes to make and was delicious and filling. Both our wellness editor and her partner had leftovers for lunch the next day. She thought the fried egg was a nice vegetarian touch. The recipe is 97% of your daily value of cholesterol, but most of that likely comes from the egg. It also contains 73% of your daily value of sodium, so she did not add any extra salt. You do get 28g of protein, 90% of your daily value of vitamin A and 80% of your daily value of vitamin C.
Thai-style curry noodles topped with a fried egg and peanuts. Anna Gragert/CNETSpecial menu recipes
Chicken, bacon and ranch pizza: This recipe took a little longer to prepare since you had to cook the chicken and bacon first, assemble the pizza and cook it again, but it was worth it. The result was like something you'd get at a gastropub or upscale sports bar. Perfect game-day food.
Spinach and artichoke dip with pita bread: I'm a sucker for "spin dip" and this version delivered, plus it was simple to make, creamy and tangy with a nice balance of ingredients. I liked that I could add salt to taste because sometimes premade or restaurant dips are too salty for me.
Chorizo quesadillas: Another crowd favorite, but certainly not WW-approved. I liked this game-day dish, although it was a tad greasy and heavy in the end.
Chorizo quesadilla with cilantro sour cream. David Watsky/CNETPrepared and ready mealsRed Curry Noodle Bowl: This meal was pretty delicious with a slight kick and our flex editor was impressed with how tender the beef was despite it being cooked in the microwave. Although it does have a decent amount of saturated fat (80% of your recommended daily value,) it still falls under carb conscious, 600 calories or less and reduced sodium section.
This meal only took three minutes to warm up in the microwave and made a flavorful and filling lunch.
Corin Cesaric/CNETCreamy mushroom chicken with orzo and peas: This meal was pretty great too and quite healthy. It had a nice cheese and mushroom balance and the orzo wasn't mushy. It is good to note, however, that these premade meals are not freezer friendly.
Blue Apron's premade meals are a solid lunch option for busy days. Corin Cesaric/CNETFour-Cheese Enchiladas with Rice: Our wellness editor said this was a very filling meal. She enjoyed the vegetables, rice and chile sauce but wished the dish contained less cheese. It is 570 calories and contains 980mg of sodium (43% of your daily value), 27g of protein, 690mg of calcium and 610mg of potassium.
Blue Apron's prepared meals are tasty but also extremely salty. Anna Gragert/CNETSweet and spicy tofu udon noodles: Our wellness editor noticed that these prepared meals felt more filling than the meal kits. For this dish, she loved how the tofu was cooked, the tenderness of the udon noodles and the variety of veggies. It also wasn't too spicy. It contains 510 calories, 1060mg of sodium (46% of the daily value), 11g of protein, 30g of total sugar (38% of the daily value), 80mg of calcium and 530mg of potassium.
CNET's wellness editor enjoyed the prepared meals as much or more than the meal kits. Anna Gragert/CNETWhat our editors thought of the service
Editor name Cooking experienceFood preferenceCNET roleKey opinions on Blue ApronDavid Watsky Experienced chef and meal kit expertGluten-freeCNET’s Kitchen & Home tech Senior Editor•Blue Apron offers sophisticated recipes at a budget-friendly price.
•The service has the the most interesting steak and seafood recipes available in the standard plan compared to other services.
•Interesting spice mixes, sauces and side dishes that were not common in other meal kit services.
•Easy to prepare, with cook times between 25 and 35 minutes.
•Oven-ready meals required very little prep time.
•The most environmentally friendly of the major meal kit services.Corin Cesaric Novice cookMeat & veggies, plus plant-based options CNET’s Health & Home Flex Editor•Meals were simple to cook but still had unique flavors
•Loved that Blue Apron had her cooking new types of protein for the first time.
•Found that meal cook times took her closer to an hour with preparation included.
•Had no issues with packaging, delivery or ingredient quality.Anna Gragert An experienced home cookVegetarian, health-consciousCNET’s Health & Wellness Editor•Impressed with the variety and flexibility of vegetarian recipes.
•Liked how fresh the produce tasted.
•Appreciated the ability to adjust spice levels.
•Found the prepared meals to be filling.
•Could improve with the use of compostable or biodegradable packaging.
Who should try Blue Apron?
Blue Apron meal kits are great for families since the price per serving drops to $8 a portion if you choose four recipes for four. With a Weight Watchers integration built into the menus and app, it's a good choice for someone following that plan (but not for most other diets). It's also generally a good meal kit service for anyone looking to cut corners at dinner or improve their cooking skills. The recipes are elevated, yet easy to prepare and offer good value, making them also a great option for new cooks or picky eaters who are hoping to expand their palate. There are probably better meal kits available for someone who eats vegetarian or vegan. Purple Carrot is one obvious option since it offers 100% plant-based (and delicious) meal kits. Even non-vegan kit services such as Sunbasket and Green Chef have more and better options for meat-free dishes on their weekly menus.
Blue Apron Market
Blue Apron also has a gourmet market where you can purchase cooking supplies, including spice mixes, cookware, gadgets, wine bundles and gear. Prices from the market are fairly reasonable.Packaging and environmental friendliness
In my initial review of Blue Apron, I thought there was room for improvement when it came to single-use plastic and overall waste. In this latest test, I found a marked improvement with not nearly as much wasteful plastic wrapping.
A recent independent analysis found that Blue Apron meal kits have the most environmentally friendly packaging. Blue ApronOur wellness editor, however, does think Blue Apron can do better when it comes to its packaging. Inside the shipping box, there was a QR code for finding a recycling drop-off site near you, but the code only led her to the recycling info -- no drop-off location. That was on a separate page. In particular, she wishes she could send the ice packs back for reuse, or perhaps they could set up some sort of donation partnership with food banks, community fridges or meal programs.
Anna Gragert/CNETAs for the plastic packaging that wraps the produce and ingredients, she wishes they would replace it with a compostable or biodegradable alternative. After all, the ingredients are already sealed in their packets and you have to wash the produce anyway. She was so impressed with Blue Apron's entire process that she's confident the company could come up with a different, more eco-friendly packaging setup.What she does like is that she definitely wasted less food with these meal kits. She also appreciated that Blue Apron partners with Feeding America Network, allowing them to send 32% of food that would be wasted to local food banks.The final verdictThe 2025 version of Blue Apron is the best so far. Not only is the weekly menu full of easy and interesting recipes, but it has the most options for steak and fresh seafood without having to pay a premium. I liked nearly all of the nine recipes I made, although some were better than others, and only one felt like a dud.
Blue Apron offers some of the most sophisticated recipes you can get at a budget-friendly price. Outside of premium meals, the most you'll pay is $10 or $12 a serving and if you order enough servings for a family of four, it's more like $8 per serving. There are cheaper meal kit services, like Dinnerly and EveryPlate, but neither has recipes as interesting or refined as Blue Apron.
The ordering process was simple and the ingredients arrived on time and in good condition. If you're a Blue Apron subscriber, it's also comforting to know that you're using the most environmentally friendly of the major meal kit services. If you're looking to try meal kits to switch from your current service, Blue Apron makes it easy and cheap, with a deal good for $110 total off your first few deliveries.
See at Blue Apron
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Nutrition Guides
Meal Delivery
Best Meal Kit Delivery Service
Best Healthy Meal Delivery Service
Best Cheap Meal Delivery Service
Hungryroot Review
EveryPlate Review
Best Vegan Meal Delivery Service
Best Vegetarian Meal Delivery Service
Best Keto Meal Delivery
Best Grocery Delivery Service
Fresh N Lean Review
Blue Apron vs. Hello Fresh
Dieting Program Guides
Best Weight Loss Programs
Optavia Diet Review
Noom Diet Review
Nutrisystem Diet Review
Weight Watchers Diet Review
Noom vs. Weight Watchers
Vitamin and Supplement Guides
Best Multivitamins
Best Multivitamins for Men
Best Multivitamins for Women
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Probiotics
Best Supplements to Gain Weight
Best Vitamin Subscription
Best Vitamins for Energy
Best Vitamins and Supplements for Joint Health
Best Vitamins for Healthy Hair, Skin and Nails
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.