What is AWS? - Cloud Computing with AWS - Amazon Web Services
Skip to main content
Filter: All
English
Contact us
Support
My account
Filter: All
Sign in to console
Create account
AWS›
What is AWS
Why AWS?
Amazon Web Services is the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud, enabling customers to build anything they can imagine. We offer the greatest choice of innovative cloud capabilities and expertise, on the most extensive global infrastructure with industry-leading security, reliability, and performance.
Create an AWS Account
Connect with an expert
The leading cloud
Breakthrough innovations
AWS is committed to delivering industry-first cloud capabilities for our customers. The scale and scope at which we operate enable us to look around corners and think years ahead—to innovate on your behalf. We have delivered the first cloud-native services for compute, serverless, storage, and relational databases, and the first fully managed, end-to-end machine learning suite. Learn about our culture of innovation.
Security you can trust
Security is our highest priority. We've architected our infrastructure and services to provide you with the most secure cloud computing environment available today. AWS helps meet the unique security requirements of the most sensitive workloads, trusted by government agencies, financial institutions, and healthcare organizations worldwide.Visit our Trust Center.
Greatest choice
AWS gives you the greatest choice and flexibility by offering the broadest and deepest set of cloud capabilities to build optimized solutions that balance performance and cost-effectiveness. With AWS, organizations modernize faster, scale more efficiently, and maintain competitive advantages through access to cutting-edge technologies and industry-specific solutions.Discover our services.
Largest and most extensive global infrastructure
We've built the world’s largest and most extensive globalinfrastructure, providing you the capacity you need. Our infrastructure is uniquely architected to offer unparalleled scalability, performance, and reliability for your applications whether they are running in the cloud, on-premises, or at the edge.Explore our Global Infrastructure.
Trusted partners and solutions
At AWS, we and our partners share an obsession over customer success and are committed to helping you find the right solutions. By combining our partners’ deep, specialized expertise with AWS services, infrastructure, and AWS Marketplace, we empower you to achieve exceptional business outcomes with greater speed and confidence.Work with a partner.
AWS Global Infrastructure
The AWS Cloud spans 120 Availability Zones within 38 Geographic Regions, with announced plans for 10 more Availability Zones and 3 more AWS Regions in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Chile, and the AWS European Sovereign Cloud.
North America
South America
Europe
Middle East
Africa
Asia Pacific
Australia and New Zealand
AWS Coverage Regions
North America
Geographic Regions
9
AWS GovCloud (US-East)
AWS GovCloud (US-West)
Canada (Central)
Canada West (Calgary)
Mexico (Central)
US West (Northern California)
US East (Northern Virginia)
US East (Ohio)
US West (Oregon)
Available
Coming soon
Edge Locations
31
The AWS Cloud in North America has 31 Availability Zones within 9 Geographic Regions, with 31 Edge Network Locations and 3 Edge Cache Locations.
Ashburn, VA
Atlanta GA
Boston, MA
Chicago, IL
Columbus, OH
Dallas/Fort Worth, TX
Denver, CO
Hayward, CA
Houston, TX
Jacksonville, FL
Kansas City, MO
Los Angeles, CA
Miami, FL
Minneapolis, MN
Montreal, QC
Nashville, TN
New York, NY
Newark, NJ
Palo Alto, CA
Phoenix, AZ
Philadelphia, PA
Portland, OR
Queretaro, MX
Salt Lake City, UT
San Jose, CA
Seattle, WA
South Bend, IN
St. Louis, MO
Tampa Bay, FL
Toronto, ON
Washington D.C.
Powering Customer Innovation
View all customer stories
Loading
Loading
Loading
Loading
Loading
Longest-running Magic Quadrant Leader for SCPS
Gartner has recognized AWS as a Magic Quadrant Leader for Strategic Cloud Platform Services (SCPS) for the 15th straight year. AWS placed highest in the Ability to Execute axis of measurement among the eight vendors named in the report.
Read the Gartner report
Learn more about cloud computing on AWS
Pricing
AWS offers a pay-as-you-go approach for pricing. Pricing for each service is unique.
Learn more about AWS pricing
Products
AWS has over 200 fully featured services for a wide range of technologies, industries, and use cases.
Learn more about AWS products and services
Global infrastructure
AWS has the most extensive, reliable, and secure global cloud infrastructure.
Learn more about AWS infrastructure
Create an AWS account
Learn
What Is AWS?
What Is Cloud Computing?
What Is Agentic AI?
Cloud Computing Concepts Hub
AWS Cloud Security
What's New
Blogs
Press Releases
Resources
Getting Started
Training
AWS Trust Center
AWS Solutions Library
Architecture Center
Product and Technical FAQs
Analyst Reports
AWS Partners
Developers
Builder Center
SDKs & Tools
.NET on AWS
Python on AWS
Java on AWS
PHP on AWS
JavaScript on AWS
Help
Contact Us
File a Support Ticket
AWS re:Post
Knowledge Center
AWS Support Overview
Get Expert Help
AWS Accessibility
Legal
English
Back to top
Amazon is an Equal Opportunity Employer: Minority / Women / Disability / Veteran / Gender Identity / Sexual Orientation / Age.
x
facebook
linkedin
instagram
twitch
youtube
podcasts
email
Privacy
Site terms
Cookie Preferences
© 2025, Amazon Web Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.