Dow Jones Top Markets Headlines at 7 PM ET: Tech Stocks Post a Second Straight Decline | New-home ... | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
Global News Select
Dow Jones Top Markets Headlines at 7 PM ET: Tech Stocks Post a Second Straight Decline | New-home ...
Dow Jones Top Markets Headlines at 7 PM ET: Tech Stocks Post a Second Straight Decline | New-home ...
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 24, 2025, 11:15:00 PM
Tech Stocks Post a Second Straight Decline
Worries about the cost of artificial intelligence weigh on major indexes
----
New-home sales spike to 3-year high as builders pile on discounts to sell homes
Sales of new homes posted an unexpected jump in August as builders ramped up discounts and slashed prices to lure buyers.
----
China to Stop Seeking Special WTO Treatment in Future Talks
Chinese Premier Li Qiang framed the decision as coming from "a responsible major developing country," underscoring that Beijing continues to claim the status of a developing nation.
----
Bessent Says U.S. Is in Talks With Argentina for $20 Billion in Aid
It marks another example of President Trump rewarding loyalists and punishing critics in Latin America.
----
German Companies Turn Gloomier as Economy Flounders
Confidence fell in September for the first time this year as companies said they were less satisfied with current conditions and saw a deterioration in manufacturing and services.
----
U.S. Crude Oil Inventories Post Weekly Decline
U.S. crude oil inventories fell by 607,000 barrels last week along with declines in product stocks , according to data released Wednesday by the U.S. Energy Information Administration.
----
Canada Factory Sales Estimated to Have Fallen 1.5% in August
Factory activity in Canada looks to have stalled, with an early estimate of sales showing a pullback in August following a recovery the previous two months.
----
New Zealand Appoints First Female Central Bank Governor
The New Zealand government has appointed Anna Breman from Sweden's central bank as the country's next central bank governor.
----
Australian Inflation Accelerates to Highest Level in a Year
Inflation pressures are once again building in Australia, with a monthly reading hitting its highest level in just over a year in August.
----
Wall Street Is Poaching Bankers in a Red-Hot Job Market
Dealmaking is picking up, and big firms are hunting for more bankers, even as hiring slows in many industries.
----
Get Rich or Get Wiped Out: Bitcoin's Hottest New Trade
Perpetual futures offer traders extreme leverage to bet on cryptocurrencies.
----
Stephen Miran's Rate-Cut Arguments Don't Add Up
The Trump policy changes that Miran cites as justification for lower rates don't necessarily deliver as promised, or have side effects.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
September 24, 2025 19:15 ET (23:15 GMT)
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Will the AI Boom in Semiconductor Stocks Continue? A critical question for the rally is whether the “base effect” will trip up chip stocks.
Sarah Hansen Sep 24, 2025
What’s Happening in the Markets This Week Personal income and outlays report to be released.
Frank Lee Sep 23, 2025
What 7 Key Indicators Are Saying About the Market When almost everything is trading at a high level, a measure of caution is warranted for investors.
Amy C. Arnott, CFA Sep 23, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Energy Stocks to Buy Now These 9 undervalued energy stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 24, 2025
The Best Consumer Cyclical Stocks to Buy These 12 undervalued consumer cyclical stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles and Tori Brovet Sep 19, 2025
A 5-Star Stock to Buy With a Near-5% Yield Undervalued by 23%, this cheap dividend stock is a top pick in its sector.
Travis Miller Sep 18, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility