Cracker Barrel now expects fewer diners in the months ahead, and the stock is plunging | Morningstar
Morningstar brands and products
Company
Portfolio
Tools
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Home
Tools
Portfolio
Watchlists
Screener
Chart
Rating Changes
Sections
Markets
Funds
ETFs
Stocks
Bonds
Investing Ideas
Media
Help
What’s New
Notifications
Products for Investors
All Products and Services
Home
News
MarketWatch
Cracker Barrel now expects fewer diners in the months ahead, and the stock is plunging
Cracker Barrel now expects fewer diners in the months ahead, and the stock is plunging
Provided by Dow Jones
Sep 18, 2025, 12:48:00 AM
By Bill Peters
Restaurant chain says it plans to focus on 'nostalgia' to win back customers, after a logo change and remodeling efforts backfired
Cracker Barrel said it expects a same-store traffic decline of 4% to 7% for fiscal 2026.
Shares of Cracker Barrel Old Country Store Inc. slid more than 9% after hours on Wednesday after the Americana-themed restaurant chain forecast falling traffic in the months ahead, in the wake of a logo change and remodeling plans that turned off consumers.
Executives at the chain - known for its breakfast and meatloaf dishes, as well as its rocking chairs, fireplaces and games - said they expect a same-store traffic decline of 4% to 7% over its fiscal 2026. Cracker Barrel's (CBRL) fiscal year runs through July.
Management also forecast total revenue of $3.35 billion to $3.45 billion over that period. Wall Street was expecting revenue of $3.52 billion.
The chain issued the forecast after restoring its old logo, after diners and conservatives reacted angrily to a newer, pared-back one. This month, it also suspended remodeling plans, intended to make stores brighter and more welcoming, after a backlash response from customers who wanted it to keep its home-spun atmosphere.
Since Aug. 19, when Cracker Barrel initially changed its logo, customer traffic has fallen around 8%, Chief Financial Officer Craig Pommells said during the company's earnings call on Wednesday. He said the drop in demand was a bit more pronounced in the southeastern U.S., excluding Florida.
"We conducted extensive research to inform our strategic plan," Chief Executive Julie Masino said during that call. "But what cannot be captured in data is how much our guests see themselves and their own story in the Cracker Barrel experience, which is what's led to such a strong response to these changes."
The reversal on the logo and the store refreshes comes as Cracker Barrel tries to balance customers' nostalgia with efforts to stay competitive in a rapidly changing restaurant landscape.
"The choices people have, their expectations around food and experience, the way they travel and their technology have all changed dramatically over the last decade, and the company had not kept pace," Masino said during the call.
Masino said the company had rolled out a new marketing campaign focusing on "nostalgia around the brand" to win back customers. The four remodeled locations would have their older, traditional interiors restored, she said.
She also argued that the logo change and the remodels were only two pieces of a bigger plan to improve food quality and service, after years of underperformance. But analysts have noted that the remodel effort was set to take place over multiple years, raising questions about spending and sales in the years to come.
Cracker Barrel has tried compete more aggressively on dinner, as rival sit-down chains offer more value deals to entice customers grappling with higher costs of living. The chain is also trying maintain and repair restaurants and improve kitchen service.
The chain has brought old favorites back to its menu, while introducing newer ones, like pot roast and strip steak. It has tried to make its biscuits better, while changing up prep work for items like meatloaf and green beans. And amid the discounting fray, Masino called out Cracker Barrel's own deals priced at $10.99.
In Cracker Barrel's fiscal fourth quarter, revenue was $868 million. Same-store restaurant sales rose 5.4%. The company reported adjusted earnings of 74 cents.
Analysts polled by FactSet expected Cracker Barrel to report adjusted earnings of 77 cents a share for its fiscal fourth quarter, with revenue of $854.8 million and a same-store sales gain of 4%.
During Wednesday's call, Masino said that Cracker Barrel on Thursday would launch an initiative called "Front Porch Feedback," which allows rewards members a chance to share their thoughts about the restaurant chain. The company on Wednesday also said its board authorized a new stock-buyback program of up to $100 million.
In June - before the outrage over the logo change - Cracker Barrel had expressed optimism over the consumer response to those remodels, but said 2025 "had been a "a year of testing and learning" on remodels, and that it would share more about its approach to in September.
Truist analyst Jake Bartlett has remained optimistic on the company, citing its efforts to improve service and refresh its menu.
"The rebranding backlash has driven a significant dip in sales and a strategic pivot, but we expect potential positive catalysts," such as increased cash return and a solid margin outlook, he said in a research note on Monday.
He said that the chain's move away from remodels was "a positive," arguing it would not dramatically change sales growth and would increase its long-term free cash flow.
Still, Citi analyst Jon Tower recently said the plans to abandon remodels "ultimately adds less visibility into an already challenged story, in our view."
-Bill Peters
This content was created by MarketWatch, which is operated by Dow Jones & Co. MarketWatch is published independently from Dow Jones Newswires and The Wall Street Journal.
(END) Dow Jones Newswires
09-17-25 2048ET
Copyright (c) 2025 Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The articles, information, and content displayed on this webpage may
include materials prepared and provided by third parties. Such
third-party content is offered for informational purposes only and
is not endorsed, reviewed, or verified by Morningstar.
Morningstar makes no representations or warranties regarding the
accuracy, completeness, timeliness, or reliability of any third-party
content displayed on this site. The views and opinions expressed in
third-party content are those of the respective authors and do not
necessarily reflect the views of Morningstar, its affiliates, or employees.
Morningstar is not responsible for any errors, omissions, or delays
in this content, nor for any actions taken in reliance thereon.
Users are advised to exercise their own judgment and seek independent
financial advice before making any decisions based on such content.
The third-party providers of this content are not affiliated with
Morningstar, and their inclusion on this site does not imply any
form of partnership, agency, or endorsement.
More in Markets
View All
Smart Investor: Best Tech Stocks, Small Cap Winners, and the Fed’s Difficult Situation We wrap up our coverage of the markets and the week.
Tom Lauricella Sep 20, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
How Low Can Interest Rates Go? A Closer Look at the Fed’s Balancing Act in an Unusual Economy Plus, the risks that could force the Fed to shift its focus from a softening job market back to sticky inflation.
Preston Caldwell and Ivanna Hampton Sep 18, 2025
More in Stocks
View All
The Best Tech Stocks to Buy
These 12 undervalued technology stocks look attractive today.
Margaret Giles Sep 17, 2025
4 Stocks to Buy Before They Take Off Plus, 4 ETFs to consider from an undervalued part of the market.
David Sekera, CFA, Susan Dziubinski, and Bryan Armour, CFA Sep 15, 2025
Weekly Market Update: Stocks Gain 1.25%, Led by Technology and Communication Services Intel jumps 23% while Humana falls.
Frank Lee Sep 19, 2025
Sponsor Center
Transparency is our policy. Learn how it impacts everything we do
Read More
Transparency is how we protect the integrity of our work and keep empowering investors to achieve their goals and dreams.
And we have unwavering standards for how we keep that integrity intact, from our research and data to our policies on
content and your personal data.
We’d like to share more about how we work and what drives our day-to-day business.
How we make money
We sell different types of products and services to both investment professionals and individual investors.
These products and services are usually sold through license agreements or subscriptions. Our investment management
business generates asset-based fees, which are calculated as a percentage of assets under management.
We also sell both admissions and sponsorship packages for our investment conferences and advertising on our websites
and newsletters.
How we use your personal data
How we use your information depends on the product and service that you use and your relationship with us. We may use it to:
Verify your identity, personalize the content you receive, or create and administer your account. Provide specific products and services to you, such as portfolio management or data aggregation. Develop and improve features of our offerings. Gear advertisements and other marketing efforts towards your interests.
To learn more about how we handle and protect your data, visit our privacy center.
How we approach editorial content
Maintaining independence and editorial freedom is essential to our mission of empowering investor success.
We provide a platform for our authors to report on investments fairly, accurately, and from the investor’s point of view.
We also respect individual opinions––they represent the unvarnished thinking of our people and exacting analysis of our
research processes. Our authors can publish views that we may or may not agree with, but they show their work,
distinguish facts from opinions, and make sure their analysis is clear and in no way misleading or deceptive.
To further protect the integrity of our editorial content, we keep a strict separation between our sales teams and authors to remove any pressure or influence on our analyses and research.
Read our
editorial policy to learn more about our process.
Site Index
What We Do
All Products & Services
Our Signature Methodologies
Morningstar Investment Conference
Company
About Us
Careers
Culture
Corporate Sustainability
Newsroom
Investor Relations
Get Help
Advertising Opportunities
Feedback
Reprints
Global Contacts
Affiliate Program
United States
© Copyright 2025 Morningstar, Inc. All rights reserved.
Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500, Nasdaq, and Morningstar Index (Market Barometer) quotes are real-time.
Terms and Conditions Privacy Center Disclosures Member User Agreement Corrections Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Accessibility