Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
Air-Fryer Quesadilla
Air-Fryer Salmon
Air-Fryer Pork Chops
Air-Fryer Chicken Thighs
Air-Fryer Corn Dogs
Air-Fryer Pork Roast
Air-Fryer Pork Tenderloin
Air-Fryer Meat Loaf
Air-Fryer Pork Ribs
Air-Fryer Bacon
Air-Fryer Broccoli
Air-Fryer Pork Tenderloin Medallions
Air-Fryer Stuffed Pork Chops
Air-Fryer Whole Chicken
Air-Fryer Grilled Cheese Sandwiches
Air-Fryer Breaded Pork Chops
Air-Fryer Cheeseburgers
Air-Fryer Meatballs
Air-Fryer Cabbage
Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel Recipe photo by Christine Ma for Taste of Home
Home
Recipes
Cuisines
European
German
Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel
Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel Recipe photo by Christine Ma for Taste of Home
5 | 4 Reviews
Total Time
Prep: 20 min. Cook: 10 min.
By
Christabel Lobo
Recipe by Joyce Folker, Paraowan, Utah
Tested by Taste of Home Test Kitchen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Updated on Sep. 24, 2024
Jump to Recipe
Save
Saved
Saving
Crispy, juicy and cooked to golden perfection, this air-fryer pork schnitzel is a healthier take on the classic German dish. Pair it with creamy dill sauce for a restaurant-quality meal that's ready in just 30 minutes.
Our air-fryer pork schnitzel offers the perfect blend of crispy and tender, giving this classic German dish a modern twist thanks to the use of an air fryer.
The air fryer circulates hot air around the breaded pork schnitzel, creating a perfectly golden crust while keeping the pork tender and juicy inside. Not only does cooking with an air fryer reduce the dish’s overall calories, it also cuts down on cook time and cleanup. The easy dill sauce adds a creamy component that takes this dish to the next level.
Ingredients for Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel
Flour: All-purpose flour creates the first layer of the breading, helping the egg wash and bread crumbs adhere to the meat. It’s also used later in the recipe to thicken the dill sauce.
Seasoned salt and pepper: These classic seasonings add flavor to the flour coating.
Egg and milk: An egg wash is used to help bind the bread crumbs to the pork and create the characteristic crispy schnitzel coating.
Dry bread crumbs: Dry bread crumbs form the crunchy outer layer of the schnitzel. If you’re feeling ambitious, you can use your own homemade bread crumbs.
Paprika: Paprika adds a subtle sweetness and warmth to the bread crumb coating.
Pork sirloin cutlets: The foundation of the dish, these thin cuts of pork cook quickly and evenly.
Cooking spray: Cooking spray ensures the schnitzel gets golden brown and crispy in the air fryer.
Chicken broth: The base of the dill sauce, the chicken broth adds depth of flavor to the final dish.
Sour cream: Sour cream adds a quintessential tang to the dill sauce that pairs perfectly with the pork schnitzel.
Dill weed: Just 1/4 teaspoon of dill adds a fresh and herby note to the sauce.
Directions
Step 1: Prep the breading station
Preheat the air fryer to 375°F. Set up three shallow bowls. In one, mix the flour, seasoned salt and pepper. In another, whisk the egg and milk. And in the third, mix the bread crumbs and paprika.
Editor’s Tip: For an extra crispy coating for your pork schnitzels, use panko bread crumbs instead of regular bread crumbs.
Step 2: Prepare the pork cutlets
Pound the pork cutlets to 1/4-inch thickness using a meat mallet. Dip each cutlet in the flour mixture, coating both sides. Then dip the cutlet in the egg wash, and finally in the bread crumb mixture, patting to help the coating adhere.
Editor’s Tip: Shake off any excess flour before dipping the cutlet into the egg wash, to prevent the breading from becoming too clumpy. Use one hand for dry ingredients and the other for wet ingredients to avoid breading your fingers along with the pork!
Step 3: Air-fry the schnitzel
Place the breaded cutlets in a single layer in a greased air-fryer basket. Spritz them with cooking spray, and cook until they’re golden brown and crispy, four to five minutes on each side, spritzing with more cooking spray after turning them. Remove the pork to a serving plate and keep it warm.
Editor’s Tip: Avoid overcrowding the air-fryer basket, and cook in batches, if necessary, for even crisping.
Step 4: Prepare the dill sauce
While the schnitzel cooks, whisk the flour and chicken broth in a saucepan until smooth. Bring the pan to a boil, stirring constantly, and cook for two minutes or until thickened. Reduce the heat to low, then stir in the sour cream and dill. Heat through, but do not allow the sauce to boil.
CHRISTINE MA FOR TASTE OF HOME
Serve the sauce over the pork.
Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel Variations
Use chicken instead: Swap the pork cutlets for thinly pounded chicken breasts for a chicken version of this air-fryer dish.
Add some cheese: Add grated Parmesan cheese to the bread crumb mixture for a cheesy boost.
Give it an herb-infused crust: Mix dried thyme or rosemary into the bread crumb mixture for added flavor.
How to Store Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel
Store leftover schnitzel in an airtight container in the fridge for up to three days. Keep the dill sauce separate to prevent the outer breading layer from turning soggy.
Can you freeze air-fryer pork schnitzel?
Yes, you can freeze cooked pork schnitzel. Allow it to cool completely before placing it in a freezer-safe bag. Freeze it for up to three months. Thaw it in the refrigerator overnight before reheating.
How do you reheat air-fryer pork schnitzel?
Reheat the schnitzel in the air fryer at 350° for three to four minutes, or until it’s warmed through, to maintain its crispy texture.
How long does air-fryer pork schnitzel last?
To maintain the crispiness of your leftovers, reheat them in the air fryer at 350° for three to four minutes. You can also reheat leftovers in a 350° oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel Tips
CHRISTINE MA FOR TASTE OF HOME
What’s the best cut of pork for air-fryer pork schnitzel?
The cuts of pork that work best for this air-fryer schnitzel pork recipe are sirloin cutlets or pork loin. You’ll want to use a cut of pork that’s lean, tender and cooks quickly.
Can you make air-fryer pork schnitzel without an air fryer?
You can skip the air fryer and use an oven to bake the schnitzel. Preheat the oven to 400° and bake the pork schnitzel for 15 to 20 minutes or until it’s crispy. Alternatively, you can also make this recipe on the stovetop—simply heat oil in a skillet over medium-high heat and fry the schnitzel for two to three minutes on each side.
How do you keep air-fryer pork schnitzel crispy?
Don’t stack the schnitzel after it’s finished cooking in the air fryer. Instead, place them on a wire rack if you’re making multiple batches to allow air circulation and prevent them from steaming.
Can you make air-fryer pork schnitzel without bread crumbs?
Absolutely! You can use crushed pork rinds to amp up the pork flavor, or almond flour for a low-carb alternative to bread crumbs. You can also use panko bread crumbs for an extra crunchy dish. The texture of the finished pork schnitzel will be slightly different but still delicious.
Watch How to Make Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel
ⓘ
Test Kitchen Approved
Air-Fryer Pork Schnitzel
5 | 4 Reviews
Add your review
Yield:4 servings
Prep:20 min
Cook:10 min
Save
Saved
Saving
email
print
Ingredients
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon seasoned salt
1/4 teaspoon pepper
1 large egg
2 tablespoons 2% milk
3/4 cup dry bread crumbs
1 teaspoon paprika
4 pork sirloin cutlets (4 ounces each)
Cooking spray
dill sauce:
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
3/4 cup chicken broth
1/2 cup sour cream
1/4 teaspoon dill weed
Text Ingredients
Directions
Preheat air fryer to 375°. In a shallow bowl, mix flour, seasoned salt and pepper. In a second shallow bowl, whisk egg and milk until blended. In a third bowl, mix bread crumbs and paprika.
Pound pork cutlets with a meat mallet to 1/4-in. thickness. Dip cutlets into flour mixture to coat both sides; shake off excess. Dip into egg mixture, then into crumb mixture, patting to help coating adhere.
Place pork in a single layer on greased tray in air-fryer basket; spritz with cooking spray. Cook until golden brown, 4-5 minutes. Turn; spritz with cooking spray. Cook until golden brown, 4-5 minutes longer. Remove to a serving plate; keep warm.
Meanwhile, in a small saucepan, whisk flour and broth until smooth. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly; cook and stir 2 minutes or until thickened. Reduce heat to low. Stir in sour cream and dill; heat through (do not boil). Serve with pork.
Nutrition Facts
1 serving: 309 calories, 13g fat (5g saturated fat), 91mg cholesterol, 572mg sodium, 17g carbohydrate (2g sugars, 1g fiber), 30g protein.
Author
Christabel Lobo
Christabel is a freelance writer and illustrator who’s been covering food and travel for more than eight years. A third-culture kid who grew up in Dubai, she’s written about many cultures and cuisines, including as a co-author of "Fodor’s Essential India" guidebook. At Taste of Home, Christabel rounds up great recipes from around the world.
Read More
Hetal Vasavada
With a background in recipe development and a passion for storytelling, Hetal creates approachable yet innovative recipes.
Pie
Hetal Vasavada’s S’mores Pie
Cookies
Hetal Vasavada’s Tropical Cocktail Cookies
Cake
Hetal Vasavada’s Pistachio Cardamom Crinkle Cake
DISCOVER MORE
Loading Popular in the Community
This recipe is one of my husband's favorites because it reminds him of his German roots. Cooking pork schnitzel in an air fryer is genius because we can eat in a jiffy. —Joyce Folker, Paraowan, Utah
Recipe Creator
Loading Reviews
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Back to Top
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box