Swapping old immune cells in the brain with fresh ones could treat disease
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
news
article
NEWS
25 September 2025
Swapping old immune cells in the brain with fresh ones could treat disease
Replacing immune cells called microglia holds promise for addressing brain conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease.
By
Heidi Ledford
Heidi Ledford
View author publications
Search author on:
PubMed
Google Scholar
Twitter
Facebook
Email
After a mouse received treatment to eliminate immune cells called microglia, it was injected with human progenitor cells that developed into human immune cells (green, pink and blue) in the animal’s brain.Credit: M. M.-D. Madler et al./NatureA fresh supply of the immune cells that keep the brain tidy might one day help to treat a host of conditions, from ultra-rare genetic disorders to more familiar scourges, such as Alzheimer’s disease.In the past few months, a spate of new studies have highlighted the potential of a technique called microglia replacement and explored ways to make it safer and more effective. “This approach is very promising,” says Pasqualina Colella, who studies gene and cell therapy at Stanford University School of Medicine in California. “But the caveat is the toxicity of the procedure.”New hope for Alzheimer’s: lithium supplement reverses memory loss in miceMicroglia are immune cells that patrol the brain, gobbling up foreign invaders, damaged cells and harmful substances. They can help to protect neurons — cells that transmit and receive messages to and from other tissues — during seizures and strokes, and they prune unneeded connections between neurons during normal brain development.“Microglia do a lot of important things,” says Chris Bennett, a psychiatrist who studies microglia at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania. “So, it’s not surprising that they are involved in the pathogenesis of many diseases.”Those diseases include a suite of rare disorders caused by genetic mutations that directly affect microglia. Malfunctioning microglia have also been implicated in more familiar conditions with complex causes, such as Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease, as well as ageing, says Bo Peng, a neuroscientist at Fudan University in Shanghai, China.Immune-cell swapThis has led researchers to investigate a tantalizing possibility: that replacing disease-causing microglia could treat some brain conditions. But swapping out microglia poses special challenges. Physicians typically replace a person’s immune cells by performing a bone-marrow transplant, which provides a fresh supply of stem cells that shelter in the bone marrow and give rise to many immune cells. Microglia, however, reside almost exclusively in the central nervous system, and typically replenish themselves by division rather than relying on stem cells in the bone marrow to send in replacements.How CRISPR gene editing could help treat Alzheimer’sPhysicians already use bone-marrow transplants to treat some rare diseases that affect microglia, such as a condition called X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. The treatment can be effective, says Marco Prinz, a neuropathologist at the University of Freiburg in Germany, but the results are inconsistent and typically replace only a small percentage of the recipient’s natural microglia. In July, Peng’s team used bone-marrow transplants to replace abnormal microglia resulting from a fatal brain disease called CAMP (CSF1R-associated microgliopathy). The treatment was a success in both mice and in a small trial of eight people with the rare disorder: none of the eight participants experienced a decline in their motor or cognitive abilities in two years following the treatment1, whereas members of a control group who did not receive the procedure experienced a deterioration of both.One possible reason for the success of the CAMP trial is the nature of the disease itself, says Bennett, because people with CAMP tend to produce relatively few microglia. This could leave space for the transplanted cells to thrive.Onerous regimenCreating that niche for the new microglia is a pivotal step in microglia replacement — and a source of concern. To make room for transplanted cells, physicians must first wipe out as many of the brain’s resident microglia as possible. This can entail high levels of chemotherapy or radiotherapy, both of which can leave the recipient vulnerable to infection during the procedure and raise their long-term risk of cancer. That means that microglia replacement is, for the moment, too toxic to be used except in severe, rapidly progressing diseases such as CAMP, says Colella.
Enjoying our latest content?
Login or create an account to continue
Access the most recent journalism from Nature's award-winning team
Explore the latest features & opinion covering groundbreaking research
Access through your institution
or
Sign in or create an account
Continue with Google
Continue with ORCiD
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-03008-5
ReferencesWu, J. et al. Science 389, eadr1015 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Frosch, M. et al. Nature https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09477-y (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Mader, M. M.-D. et al. Nature https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-025-09461-6 (2025).Article
PubMed
Google Scholar
Chen, D. et al. Sci. Trans. Med. 17, eads6111 (2025).Article
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
Guardians of the brain: how a special immune system protects our grey matter
‘Epigenome editor’ silences gene that causes deadly brain disorders
How CRISPR gene editing could help treat Alzheimer’s
CRISPR helps brain stem cells regain youth in mice
Brain drugs can now cross the once impenetrable blood–brain barrier
Subjects
Brain
Immunology
Neuroscience
Medical research
Latest on:
Brain
Immunology
Neuroscience
Huntington’s disease treated for first time using gene therapy
News 25 SEP 25
Tylenol is over 130 years old — why is it still the gold-standard painkiller?
News 24 SEP 25
Trump team backs an unproven drug for autism — but does it work?
News 23 SEP 25
Boosting immune cells to combat cancer using CRISPR engineering and large-scale in vivo testing
News & Views 24 SEP 25
Systematic discovery of CRISPR-boosted CAR T cell immunotherapies
Article 24 SEP 25
In vivo CRISPR screens identify modifiers of CAR T cell function in myeloma
Article 24 SEP 25
Arousal as a universal embedding for spatiotemporal brain dynamics
Article 24 SEP 25
Nerdy and easy to pronounce: why we chose Apheros as the name for our technology start-up firm
Career Feature 23 SEP 25
AI is helping to decode animals’ speech. Will it also let us talk with them?
News Feature 17 SEP 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
New Orleans, Louisiana
Tulane University School of Medicine
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University
The Sixth International Youth Scholars Forum Series Activity of Capital Medical University October 20-24, 2025, Beijing, China
Beijing (CN)
Capital Medical University
Physician-Scientist Positions in Research Hospital, ShanghaiTech University
Invites visionary Physician-Scientists and Clinicians across all disciplines and career stages to join our foundational team.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Biomedical Engineering (BME))
School of Biomedical Engineering invites highly qualified candidates to apply for multiple tenure-track/tenured faculty positions.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Faculty Positions (School of Creativity and Art (SCA))
School of Creativity and Art (SCA) calls for candidates with exceptional academic records or demonstrated potential.
Shanghai (CN)
ShanghaiTech University
Related Articles
Guardians of the brain: how a special immune system protects our grey matter
‘Epigenome editor’ silences gene that causes deadly brain disorders
How CRISPR gene editing could help treat Alzheimer’s
CRISPR helps brain stem cells regain youth in mice
Brain drugs can now cross the once impenetrable blood–brain barrier
Subjects
Brain
Immunology
Neuroscience
Medical research
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Open access funding
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited