Helix Sunset Luxe Mattress Review 2024: The Best Helix Bed for Side Sleeping - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
Photo Gallery
WellnessSleep Mattresses
Helix Sunset Luxe Mattress Review 2024: The Best Helix Bed for Side Sleeping If you're a side sleeper looking for a softer pillow-top option, you'll want to know more about this plush Helix Sleep bed.
Written by
JD Christison
Why Trust CNET
Our methodology
Article updated on Jan 2, 2025
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Pricing from
Pricing
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1,374 at Helix
Pricing for all listed queen mattresses are based on MSRP
$1374
More details
Product details
Policies
Trial period
Warranty
Returns
undefined days
Performance
$1,374 at Helix
* Pricing based on queen model
Article updated on January 2, 2025 at 2:07 PM PST
Our Experts
Written by
JD Christison
Our expert, award-winning staff selects the products we cover and rigorously researches and tests our top picks. If you buy through our links, we may get a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
JD Christison
A certified sleep science coach and mattress expert, JD has been reviewing online mattresses professionally for the past five years. During that time, he's tested well over 150 beds and dedicated countless hours to sleep research. While many consider him to be sleeping on the job, JD spends most of his time reviewing bedding products on The Slumber Yard, a popular YouTube channel specializing in online mattress expertise. If it's a bed you've heard of, he's tried it first hand. Expertise Online Mattresses Credentials Certified Sleep Science Coach
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
120130140150160170180190200210 Mattress Tests 0102030405 Testers 9509609709809901,0001,1701,2701,3701,470 Hours Tested
How we test
With 5+ years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews. 7.6 /10
SCORE
CNET Score
With five-plus years of mattress testing experience, we use our different sleeping position and body type perspectives to offer well-rounded, honest reviews.
Read more on
How we test
Our Verdict
Our Verdict
Best for:
Side sleeper
Score Breakdown
Performance
8
/10
Policies
7.5
/10
Durability
9
/10
Features
8.5
/10
Pros and Cons
Pros
Zoned Support coils give you targeted support
Comfort foams in pillow top offer pressure relief
Excellent motion isolation & edge support
Ideal for side and combo sleepers
Cons
Not as affordable as the core version
People under 150 pounds might not need the added support
Not ideal for fans of memory foam
Jonathan Gomez/CNET
Table of Contents
Helix Sunset Luxe Mattress Review 2024: The Best Helix Bed for Side Sleeping
Video: Helix Sunset Luxe mattress review
First impressions
Helix Sunset Luxe mattress firmness and feel
Helix Sunset Luxe mattress performance
Who is the Helix Sunset Luxe mattress best for?
Helix Sunset Luxe mattress pricing
Trial, shipping and warranty
The final verdict
Other mattresses from Helix Sleep
Helix Sunset Luxe Mattress FAQs
Helix Sleep is one of the best mattress brands in the online market. It's grown significantly since its early days, expanding from a single mattress model to nearly two dozen options. From affordability to firmness and type, Helix has you covered when it comes to mattress variety.You've got six enhanced Luxe versions of its core models and another six Elite renditions. Each of these beds has a firmness designed to work for specific sleeping preferences, and using the Helix Sleep Quiz you can make finding the right one quick and easy.If you're primarily a side sleeper, one of the best options from its lineup is the Helix Sunset Luxe. It's a quality pillow-top mattress with a softer firmness that provides ample pressure relief for your shoulders and hips. In this review, I'll go over everything you should know about this bed before you buy it and who exactly it'll work best for.
CNET-exclusive deal
Looking for a new mattress? With this CNET-exclusive deal, you can take 27% off Helix sitewide and get two free pillows with any mattress purchase. This is the biggest discount available -- you won’t find it anywhere else. Use code CNET27 at checkout. Video: Helix Sunset Luxe mattress reviewWatch me review the Helix Sunset Luxe.Helix Sunset Luxe
$1,899 at Helix Sleep
First impressionsUnboxing the Sunset Luxe was just like setting up any other bed that ships in a box. Once it arrived at our door, we dragged it inside, took it out of the packaging and watched as our new mattress quickly expanded. It did look slightly misshapen right out of the box, but we gave it night to let it fully inflate.When we checked it out the next morning, the bed looked ready for testing. My first time feeling the pillow top, I immediately noticed it was quite soft and plush. After testing responsiveness, I also noticed that its feel was neutral with a slightly slower response time. I think this had to do with the more pressure-relieving qualities inside of the mattress.When I hopped on the bed, I instantly perceived it to be a much softer mattress. I still felt plenty of support from the Zoned Support coils below, but the softer comfort foams, above, provided lots of give for my shoulders and hip as I turned to my sides. I would compare the firmness of this bed to other much softer online options like Puffy Lux and AS5 from Amerisleep. It just has a cloud-like level of cushion. Helix Sunset Luxe mattress firmness and feelWhat does the Helix Sunset Luxe feel like?
Jonathan Gomez/CNETTo us, we think this bed has a softer pillow top feel. The comfort foams within that pillow top are soft and neutral, providing a substantial amount of pressure relief to the bed. The Zoned Support coils below give the bed plenty of support while keeping your spine more neutrally aligned at night.We'd say that the Sunset Luxe from Helix Sleep should mainly appeal to side sleepers looking for a neutral feel. This mattress does have memory foam near the top, so if you're the type of side sleeper who prefers a memory foam bed, you'll get some of that  "sink-in" quality from this bed. Generally speaking, the Luxe beds from Helix Sleep are designed to be more premium than your average mattress. If you've ever slept on a fancier hotel bed, that's sort of what Helix Sunset is like -- only way softer.How firm is the Helix Sunset Luxe mattress?Speaking of softness, the Sunset Luxe is right at a proper medium-soft on our scale. This firmness should work for strict side sleepers and some combination sleepers. If you're mainly a back or stomach sleeper who wants a firmer option, you may want to look elsewhere.Helix Sleep offers a plethora of beds, and each one has a targeted firmness level. The Dawn and Twilight beds are the firm beds, while the Sunset and Moonlight models are the softer ones. The Dusk and Midnight mattresses have the most neutral firmness levels that should work for the average sleeper. By going the route of the Sunset Luxe, just know that you're getting a more pressure-relieving option, which also results in a much softer firmness profile. If you're a side sleeper, I think you'll get a lot out of this particular mattress when it comes to firmness.Helix Sunset Luxe mattress construction
Top-view of Helix Sunset Luxe MySlumberYardThe Sunset Luxe is a premium bed that's constructed with high-quality materials. It's comprised of the following layers:1. On the bottom, there's a layer of base foam. This is a thin, dense foam that acts as a foundation for everything else to rest on.2. Then you have the bed's main support system of pocketed coils, which feature reinforced edges and a Zoned Support design.3. Then, you have a transition layer of "Helix Responsive Foam." This is just a neutral foam that's placed in between the coils and comfort foams. 4. One of the main comfort foams used in the mattress is a copper gel memory foam. This layer is thicker than the others to provide the bed with ample pressure relief. 5. Just beneath the cover is another layer of "Helix Responsive Foam," to help neutralize some of that memory feel and add responsiveness to the mattress.6. And rounding everything out is the bed's breathable Tencel cover, made for good airflow and meant to sleep temperature-neutral.This is the basic cover for the mattress, but you do have an optional cooling cover that you purchase. This will cost you more at checkout, but it may be worth it if you're an especially hot sleeper.Helix Sunset Luxe mattress performanceMotion isolationWhen it comes to how well this bed absorbs motion at night, the bed performs quite well. If you're a light sleeper, you want a mattress that doesn't reverberate a lot of your partner's motion, causing you to wake up. Thankfully, the memory foam within Sunset Luxe should deaden cross-mattress movement nicely. I would say that the Sunset Luxe performs the best out of all the other Helix Sleep beds for this particular category.Edge-to-edge supportThe reinforced coils that run along the edges of this mattress add up to give this bed some solid edge support. If you sleep with someone who tends to hog the entire mattress, sometimes that can lead you to sleep closer to the edges of the bed than you otherwise would.Based on our tests, we found the perimeter of this bed to be very sturdy under pressure. If you sleep close to the edges of this bed, we doubt you'll be falling off the mattress anytime soon. Since all of the Luxe beds from Helix Sleep feature reinforced coils on the edges, the same should be true with the rest of this line.TemperatureLike the other Luxe mattresses, the standard version of this bed should sleep predominantly temperature-neutral. Its breathable Tencel cover shouldn't cause you to sleep hot or actively cool you down. As I mentioned, you do have an optional GlacioTex cover that you can spend up for if you're looking for a bit of a cooling advantage.Keep in mind that sleeping temperature varies on a case-by-case basis. There may be other factors not related to the actual mattress itself that could be causing you to sleep on the warmer side. Things like your room's temperature and even the types of pillows, pajamas or sheets you use could be affecting your sleeping temperature more than just the bed itself.DurabilityA quality hybrid bed such as this can last for a number of years, sometimes even over a decade. We've found that coil beds generally last longer than those that have dense support foam. Foam layers can degrade faster over time as you lay on them night after night, whereas coils retain their shape more since they're made of metal. Since the Sunset Luxe is an upgraded hybrid mattress. It'll likely last you several years to come, even if you're a much heavier person.Off-gassing There's no getting around it; sometimes your brand-new bed stinks right out of the box -- and I mean that in the literal sense. Like other products that ship to you in a box, oftentimes, there's a factory smell. Rest assured, nothing is wrong with your new mattress. This smell is a completely normal part of the process and should dissipate after a couple of nights.Who is the Helix Sunset Luxe mattress best for?While the Sunset Luxe from Helix Sleep is a great option for side sleepers looking for a pressure-relieving option with a slight memory foam sensation, it might not be the most suitable option for all sleeper types. Here's who we think this bed is most ideal for.Sleeping position
Soft beds are typically best for side sleepers because they provide more contour underneath shoulder and hip pressure points.  This bed is ideal for side sleepers who prefer much softer beds. Being one of the softest beds in the Luxe line at around medium-soft, it should provide plenty of pressure relief for your shoulders and hips.If you're a combination sleeper who tends to favor your sides, you can also get by on this bed, just as long as you prefer a soft mattress. Some combination sleepers favor sleeping on their back or stomach, so if that sounds like you, consider a firmer option from the brand. The Dawn or Twilight models will likely benefit your preferences more.Body typeSince this is a pillow top bed that uses Zoned Support coils, it should be able to handle all body types by default. If you're smaller or more average-sized, you can get by on this bed as well, but you may prefer sleeping on an all-foam mattress. Hybrid beds are more suited for supporting heavier people since coils are more durable than dense support foam. All-foam mattresses can last for a long time, but could also degrade on you faster than a coil mattress if you're on the heavier side.Helix Sunset Luxe mattress pricing
Size Measurements (inches)PriceTwin 38x75 inches$1,374Twin XL 38x80 inches$1,624Full 54x75 inches$1,999Queen 60x80 inches$2,374King 76x80 inches$2,874Cal King 72x84 inches$2,874
For a bed of this caliber, I think all the Helix Luxe beds are offered at great price points, and this one is no exception. After discounts, a queen size should run you around $1,800. Pillow-top mattresses of this quality can easily cost upwards of two grand, so it's nice to see the Sunset Luxe at a slightly more affordable value. Helix Sleep also likes to bundle in two free Dream pillows with every mattress purchase. Who doesn't love free pillows? Helix Sleep typically runs discounts on its beds year-round as well. Trial, shipping and warrantyAs a brand, Helix backs its beds with above-average policies. Its beds ship to you in a box for free, and once it's in your possession, you get a 100-night trial period to try it at home risk-free. If you happen to not like it within that time frame you have a return option, but if you decide to keep it, you're backed by a 15-year limited warranty. Just be sure to use the right foundation for the bed. Otherwise, you could void your bed's warranty.The final verdict
MySlumberYardIf you're a primary side sleeper looking for a softer hybrid option, I think the Sunset Luxe has your name written all over it. If you don't mind spending up for a quality pillow top bed with a slight memory foam sensation, this could be the perfect Helix Sleep bed for you.Also, if you want a bed with a Zoned Support Design in that coil system, or you just want an optional cooling cover upgrade for hot sleepers, you can't go wrong!You might like the Helix Sunset Luxe mattress if:You want a premium pillow top mattress You’re a side sleeper looking for a softer bedYou want a slight memory foam sensation in your bedYou like a bed with an optional cooling coverYou weigh more than 200 poundsYou’re looking for a hybrid with a Zoned Support designYou might not like the Helix Sunset Luxe bed if:You're looking for an all-foam mattressYou’re a smaller-sized person who doesn’t need extra supportYou want a firmer mattress for primary back and stomach sleepingYou’re on a super strict budgetOther mattresses from Helix SleepTo be frank, I'm not going to list all the other Helix beds individually, simply because there are far too many to cover. The brand has six core models, six luxe versions of those beds and six more Elite renditions. Woof -- that's a LOT of mattresses.These options are ranked in terms of firmness. The Sunset and Moonlight are the softer beds, the Dusk and Midnight are the medium options and the Dawn and Twilight are the firm mattresses. Helix Sleep also has a Plus mattress, which is designed to support much heavier people, and they even have a couple of natural and organic beds to choose from in the sub-brand, Birch.So many options could present a bit of a challenge when it comes to picking the right one for you. I mean, how are you supposed to navigate your way through such an extensive lineup of beds? Helix offers an online sleep quiz that runs you through a series of questions. This quiz asks you about your sleeping preferences and body proportions, and then the quiz comes up with the right bed for you based on your answers. This makes finding the right Helix Sleep option for you quick and easy. Feel free to take the Helix Sleep Quiz for yourself.How does Helix Sunset Luxe compare to other mattresses?Helix Sunset vs. Helix Sunset LuxeWhen it comes to comparing the core model to the Luxe version, there are many things to discuss. Both feature coils on the bottom for support, but on the Luxe the coils are reinforced along the edges and have a Zoned Support design. The pillow top on the Luxe model also gives the bed a bit more of a comfort advantage, and a bit more pressure relief compared to the core version. If we're talking about price, the Core model is considerably more affordable than the Luxe version, which could be worth it to some of us on a tight budget.Helix Sunset Luxe vs. Helix Moonlight LuxeThese are the two softer mattresses from Helix Sleep, but one is a tinge softer than the other. The Sunset Luxe is the softest Luxe option that Helix Sleep currently makes at around medium-soft. The Moonlight Luxe, on the other hand, is slightly firmer between that and a medium on our scale. This makes both options great for side sleeping, but the Sunset Luxe gets a slight advantage in this regard. Also, since the Moonlight Luxe doesn't contain memory foam in its design, it doesn't have as much of a sink-in sensation as the Sunset Luxe.Helix Sunset Luxe Mattress FAQs
Is Helix Luxe worth it?
Personally, I’d say so. It does also depend heavily on the type of mattress you ultimately want. If you’re looking for a no-frills bed with more affordable support coils, I don’t think you’ll be compromising much by going the core route of Helix Sleep. However, if you’re looking for a premium pillow top bed to offer you more comfort, and you want something to help keep your back more neutrally aligned with that Zoned Support, Helix Luxe might be worth it in the long run.
How long do Helix beds last?
Given that they’re all hybrid mattresses, the lifespan of a Helix Sleep bed is around that of an average coil option. We’d say your Helix Sleep bed should last you for the next seven to 10 years, if not longer.
Will Helix Sunset Luxe be right for everyone?
Given that it’s a much softer style of hybrid mattress, the Sunset Luxe will not be right for everyone. As mentioned, it will mainly appeal to side sleepers who prefer softer options. Since the Sunset Luxe features memory foam, a divisive material in and of itself, many people might prefer something that feels more neutral overall. Neutral beds with medium firmness profiles usually work for the widest variety of people and are the most generally accommodating mattresses.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
Mattress Buying Guides
Type
Best Mattresses
Best Air Mattress
Best Adjustable Mattress
Best Mattress in a Box
Best Memory Foam Mattress
People
Best Mattress for Side Sleepers
Best Mattress for Stomach Sleepers
Best Mattress for Back Pain
Best Mattress for Heavy People
Best Mattress for Kids
Preference
Best Cooling Mattress
Best Cheap Mattress
Best Firm Mattress
Best Soft Mattress
Best King Mattress
Mattress Reviews
Purple Mattress
Dreamcloud Mattress
Nectar Mattress
Casper Mattress
TempurPedic Mattress
Saatva Mattress
Tuft & Needle Mattress
Helix Mattress
Avocado Mattress
Other Sleep Guides
Bed Accessories
Best Pillow
Best Weighted Blanket
Best Sleep Mask
Best Sheets
Best Mattress Toppers
Best Mattress Pads
Sleep Tech
Best Headphones for Sleeping
Best Alarm Clock
Best Earplugs for Sleeping
Best White Noise Machines
Best Products for Snoring
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.