Join us as an editor or peer reviewer - PLOS
Skip to content
About
Our mission and vision
Research integrity and publication ethics
Sustainability
The Executive Team
The Board of Directors
The Scientific Advisory Council
Governance
Careers at PLOS
Contact us
Open Science
What is Open Science?
Open Science Publishing
> Research journals
> Publication metrics
> Publication fees
Open Science Practice
> Research by PLOS
Open Science Policy
> DORA
Libraries
Institutional Sales
Supporting researchers
Institutional agreements
Our partners
Terms of service
FAQs
Community
Editors and reviewers
Authors
> Cancer
> Digital health
> Impacts of hazards
> Marine ecosystems
> Population and aging
> Smart cities
> Terrestrial ecosystems
Announcements
PLOS responds to PNAS study
PLOS’s response to US Executive Orders
An exciting new era
Gates Foundation partnership
Redefining publishing
PLOS pledge
Blogs
Press
Media inquiries
Embargo policy
Author media toolkit
Guidelines
Careers
Why join PLOS?
Search:
Menu
PLOS is a non-profit organization on a mission to drive open science forward with measurable, meaningful change in research publishing, policy, and practice.
Building on a strong legacy of pioneering innovation, PLOS continues to be a catalyst, reimagining models to meet open science principles, removing barriers and promoting inclusion in knowledge creation and sharing, and publishing research outputs that enable everyone to learn from, reuse and build upon scientific knowledge.
We believe in a better future where science is open to all, for all.
Journals
PLOS Biology
PLOS Climate
PLOS Complex Systems
PLOS Computational Biology
PLOS Digital Health
PLOS Genetics
PLOS Global Public Health
PLOS Medicine
PLOS Mental Health
PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases
PLOS One
PLOS Pathogens
PLOS Sustainability and Transformation
PLOS Water
More Content
PLOS Blogs
PLOS Collections
Editors and reviewers
A global community committed to making research robust, reliable, and accessible to all
Our journal editors and reviewers play a vital role in safeguarding the peer review process and ensuring ethical integrity. In return for your hard work and dedication, we provide recognition for the work you do, access to resources that will help you in your role, the opportunity to network with leading academics globally, and the chance to shape the future of research.
Your benefits and recognition
We recognize the benefits and contributions our editors and reviewers make to the research community.
By working with us as a journal editor or reviewer, you will:
Be part of a mission-driven, open science publisher that focuses on principles, not profits.Gain international recognition with your name published alongside each manuscript you work on.Be among the first in your field to see new research and influence what we publish.Earn credit through your ORCID and Web of Science researcher profiles.Have the opportunity to network with experts worldwide within your field of expertise, and beyond.Gain professional development experience as an editor or reviewer.
Join us and move open science forward
We place scientific rigor and ethics at the center of everything that we do
Our editors and reviewers are a global community that is committed to safeguarding research ethics and integrity and making sure that the research we publish is accurate and reliable.
We serve and support our communities
We understand the unique needs of the communities that we serve. This allows us to offer unique insights and support that will help you put your best foot forward. To support you in your role, we offer training and resources on a variety of topics.
We focus on principles, not profit
We exist to serve the research enterprise which means our priorities are based on the needs of scholars, librarians, funders, and institutional leaders, not shareholders. We will not waste public money and will do everything we can to ensure our services are valuable and cost effective.
Join our community of editors and reviewers advancing ethical researchWe are always looking for researchers who want to contribute to a more open, ethical, and rigorous scientific process. Whether you are interested in serving as an editor or a reviewer, we want to hear from you.
Bluesky
Facebook
Linkedin
PLOS is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation, #C2354500, and is based in California, US
Connect
Contact
Blogs
Advertise
Finance
Financial Overview
Pay Invoice
Payment Terms and Conditions
Legal
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Sign Up
Back to top