powerbi - Creating a drillthrough button in power bi where selecting a category is optional - Stack Overflow
Skip to main content
Stack Overflow
About
Products
For Teams
Stack Overflow for Teams
Where developers & technologists share private knowledge with coworkers
Advertising
Reach devs & technologists worldwide about your product, service or employer brand
Knowledge Solutions
Data licensing offering for businesses to build and improve AI tools and models
Labs
The future of collective knowledge sharing
About the company
Visit the blog
Loading…
current community
Stack Overflow
help
chat
Meta Stack Overflow
your communities
Sign up or log in to customize your list.
more stack exchange communities
company blog
Log in
Sign up
Home
Questions
AI Assist
Labs
Tags
Challenges
Chat
Articles
Users
Jobs
Companies
Collectives
Communities for your favorite technologies.
Explore all Collectives
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Try Teams for free
Explore Teams
Teams
Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams.
Explore Teams
Collectives™ on Stack Overflow
Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.
Learn more about Collectives
Teams
Q&A for work
Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.
Learn more about Teams
Creating a drillthrough button in power bi where selecting a category is optional
Ask Question
Asked
today
Modified
today
Viewed
8 times
0
We have created a PowerBI report with a overview page that gives the users an overview over the key insights in the report. In this overview page we created a section which basically shows the actions that a user should take based on the data.
Such as in this example: actions. We have created buttons on top of the so called 'actions' which navigate to a page which shows detailed information about those requests. In the example you can clearly see these by their outline, but in the report they are left transparent.
This works great. Clicking on categories in visuals on the overview page also interacts with the number of actions. The problem however is that the detail page to which you navigate with the buttons does not. The key-stakeholder of the report now asked specifically asked if we could add this functionality.
I know I can just change the button to a drill through button to add the functionality to drill through on a category via the button. The problem however is that we still want users to be able to click the button even if they didn't select a category. The visuals with the categories are not slicers, so created synced hidden slicers will not work either.
Is there any way to create a drill-through button in PowerBI for which selecting a category is optional?I.e. if nothing is selected, you can still navigate to that page via the same button and no filters will be applied on the page.
I have tried simply using a drill through button instead of a page navigation button. I could however not find a solution where you can both select a category in a visual in order to drill through and drill through the page without any selections.
If there are no solutions for this issue, I will most likely either create 2 buttons separately for each action and make them visible with an icon. Or I will present the case to the stakeholder as an either - or scenario. Either you can drillthrough, but only if you select a category. Or you cannot drillthrough but can always navigate to the page.
powerbidrillthrough
Share
Improve this question
Follow
asked 6 hours ago
JesseJesse
1
New contributor
Jesse is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering.
Check out our Code of Conduct.
Add a comment
|
Related questions
0
Detail to detail drillthrough in Power BI
2
Microsoft Power BI drillthrough from one table report to another (each uses different datasets)
1
Using dynamic URL to link to Drillthrough pages within the same report in Power BI
Related questions
0
Detail to detail drillthrough in Power BI
2
Microsoft Power BI drillthrough from one table report to another (each uses different datasets)
1
Using dynamic URL to link to Drillthrough pages within the same report in Power BI
2
Drillthrough function in Power BI column chart - show day numbers instead of dates
0
How to have Drill Through Filters carry through buttons in PowerBI
1
Can I create a drill-through button from data in Deneb?
1
PowerBI Embedded - Hide specific filters
0
Setting Category to off on a Card visual through Power BI embedded API
Load 5 more related questions
Show fewer related questions
0
Sorted by:
Reset to default
Highest score (default)
Trending (recent votes count more)
Date modified (newest first)
Date created (oldest first)
Know someone who can answer? Share a link to this question via email, Twitter, or Facebook.
Your Answer
Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow!Please be sure to answer the question. Provide details and share your research!But avoid …Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers.Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience.To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers.
Draft saved
Draft discarded
Sign up or log in
Sign up using Google
Sign up using Email and Password
Submit
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post as a guest
Name
Email
Required, but never shown
Post Your Answer
Discard
By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy.
Start asking to get answers
Find the answer to your question by asking.
Ask question
Explore related questions
powerbidrillthrough
See similar questions with these tags.
The Overflow Blog
Planning to Arm mobile devices with chips that handle AI
Featured on Meta
Community Asks Sprint Announcement - September 2025
stackoverflow.ai - rebuilt for attribution
Policy: Generative AI (e.g., ChatGPT) is banned
New comment UI experiment graduation
New and improved coding challenges
Hot Network Questions
How to Calculate Habitable Area of an Infinite Plane
Here, "supports" appears in the plural. Why is there this difference in usage? ("Analysis on Manifolds" by James R. Munkres.)
Is it normal for postdoc to write grant proposals for PI, but then is denied the opportunity to work on the projects later on?
Can chess engines solve the bishop and knight mate without the use of an endings tablebase?
To what extent was Spinoza a cartesian?
1970s-90s story where refugees flee through an escape tunnel and emerge unexpectedly in another world
Can Boo steal partially used items in Mario Kart World?
What is this book about researchers in boats being chased on an alien planet by humanoid aliens?
Come vs go in this situation
Line Art strokes render on top of Grease Pencil objects
What are these angled things on the Saab 340 tail?
How to describe an artist painting a picture?
How many of each type of dice could you possibly need?
What is the least conspicuous way to bring a hidden junction box with MWBC junction to code compliance?
Sorting a dynamic array in Excel
Given two normal distributions X and Y with fixed Spearman Correlation, do they have a well-defined Pearson Correlation (and vice-versa)?
Calculate force of a door that fell and hit my sister
A function that opens a CSV file
Practical limit on number of serial splices in 20A household circuit (USA NEC)?
How to remove parts of all file paths in a .m3u playlist with Notepad++?
In GIMP, how do I crop the "invisible" content outside an image's rectange?
Are we allowed to use ISM bands for broadcast radio, television, or data?
In "amsart" the list of authors does not break a page, but overfills it
Are there any missable endings?
more hot questions
Question feed
Subscribe to RSS
Question feed
To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader.
Stack Overflow
Questions
Help
Chat
Products
Teams
Advertising
Talent
Company
About
Press
Work Here
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Contact Us
Your Privacy Choices
Cookie Policy
Stack Exchange Network
Technology
Culture & recreation
Life & arts
Science
Professional
Business
API
Data
Blog
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc;
user contributions licensed under
CC BY-SA
.
rev 2025.9.15.33996