Texas A&M president resigning following backlash over video of gender identity discussion in classroom - CBS Texas
Latest
U.S.
GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Vote
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Texas
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
Texas Monthly
Local
Business
Eye on Politics
Politics
Consumer
Education
Tech
The I-Team
HealthWatch
Entertainment
Texas Weather
Live Radar
Closings/Cancellations
Gardening 101
Weather on Wheels
Mobile 11
Climate Connection
Where's Brittany?
All Sports
CBS Sports HQ
Cowboys
Rangers
Mavericks
Stars
FC Dallas
Wings
NASCAR
Golf
Tennis
College Sports
High School Sports
Station Info
CBS 11 / TXA 21
Advertise
CBS Television Jobs
Upload Your Photos
Galleries
Download the App
Watch CBS News
Local News
Texas A&M president resigning following backlash over video of gender identity discussion in classroom
By
Shawna
Mizelle,
Shawna
Mizelle
Shawna Mizelle is a 2024 campaign reporter for CBS News.
Read Full Bio
Shawna
Mizelle,
Doug
Myers
Doug
Myers
Digital Content Producer, CBS Texas
Doug Myers is a digital content producer for CBS Texas. A longtime journalist, Doug has worked for four newspapers in Texas and Louisiana and for three television stations in Texas. He has also spent time as a digital content manager for a national trade association and as communications director for a state agency.
Read Full Bio
Doug
Myers
Updated on:
September 18, 2025 / 10:40 PM CDT
/ CBS Texas
Texas A&M announces sudden resignation of university president
Texas A&M announces sudden resignation of university president
00:34
Retired U.S. Air Force Gen. Mark Welsh, the president of Texas A&M University, will resign Friday in the wake of criticism over the fallout from the release earlier this month of a video that showed a student confronting a professor over class curriculum surrounding gender identity.  "President Welsh is a man of honor who has led Texas A&M with selfless dedication," Chancellor Glenn Hegar said in a statement announcing the resignation. "We are grateful for his service and contributions. At the same time, we agree that now is the right moment to make a change and to position Texas A&M for continued excellence in the years ahead."Welsh last week fired the professor, later identified to CBS News Texas as Melissa McCoul, amid political backlash from Texas lawmakers over the video, and also demoted two high-ranking officials at Texas A&M University — the College of Arts and Sciences dean and the head of the English Department.  In the video that captures the encounter — which has been circulating on the internet — the student cites executive orders signed by President Trump and questions the legality of the teachings in the children's literature class.
Texas A&M University President Mark Welsh
Texas A&M
"I'm not entirely sure this is legal to be teaching because according to our president, there's only two genders and he said he would be freezing agencies' funding programs that promote gender ideology. And this also very much goes against, not only myself but a lot of people's religious beliefs," a student's voice is heard saying in the video.
"If you are uncomfortable in this class you do have the right to leave," another voice, believed to be the professor, responds after a brief back-and-forth.Texas state Rep. Brian Harrison posted the video on X on Sept. 8 and called for the Trump administration to investigate the school and fire the officials involved. Republican Texas Gov. Greg Abbott advocated for the professor's firing in a social media post, writing that she acted "contrary to Texas law."Harmeet Dhillon, who serves as the assistant attorney general for civil rights in the Justice Department, called the video "deeply concerning" and said her division will "look into" the matter.
Neither the student nor the professor are visible in the video, which Harrison said his office received from a whistleblower. It is not clear when it was recorded. An attorney for McCoul told CBS News Texas she has appealed her termination. The attorney also said that his client taught the course for years and was never told to change it. When reached by CBS News, Texas A&M said the involved student chose not to be publicly identified. Mr. Trump signed an executive order on his first day in office proclaiming that, "It is the policy of the United States to recognize two sexes, male and female. These sexes are not changeable and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality." The executive order also prohibits federal grants from being used to promote gender ideology.In a letter written to Abbott, Harrison alleged that the professor taught that "childhood is the time for figuring out how to be a boy, girl, man, woman, or another gender," and that "children and adolescents are expected to be sexless, even as our culture valorizes, idealizes, and even eroticizes youth."Amid mounting political pressure, Welsh announced on Sept. 9 his decision to fire the professor and demote the school officials involved, following a "full consideration of the facts," he said in a statement.Welsh said in that statement he learned about the content of the course over the summer, but changes that were discussed with the professor were not addressed, and "the college continued to teach content that was inconsistent with the published course description for another course this fall."
Moving forward, Welsh said, departments across the university will undergo an audit process to ensure course offerings and descriptions match. "This isn't about academic freedom; it's about academic responsibility," Welsh said in his statement last week. "Our degree programs and courses go through extensive approval processes, and we must ensure that what we ultimately deliver to students is consistent with what was approved."The professor's firing prompted criticism from some education advocates. "We're witnessing the death of academic freedom in Texas," Jonathan Friedman of PEN America, a literacy advocacy group, said in a statement last week. "Firing academic leaders to appease politicians is excessive and suffocates free speech and open inquiry on campus."Welsh has served as school president since 2023 following the resignation of M. Katherine Banks.
More from CBS News
Former Decatur athletic trainer arrested, license suspended amid child sexual abuse investigation
Salad and Go to close 41 stores, including some in Texas and Oklahoma
"Bee Happy" nonprofit hopes North Texans will lend a hand: North Texas Giving Day
Hot weather sticks around North Texas, rain showers possible
Officer injured in crash during procession for late Hurst police chief
Texas
North Texas
Shawna
Mizelle
Shawna Mizelle is a 2024 campaign reporter for CBS News.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
Five injured after car crashes into Duff's Famous Wings in Southlake
Former Decatur athletic trainer arrested, license suspended amid child sexual abuse investigation
Salad and Go to close 41 stores, including some in Texas and Oklahoma
"Bee Happy" nonprofit hopes North Texans will lend a hand: North Texas Giving Day
Featured
H-1B Visa Fee
House Passes GOP Funding Bill
CDC Vaccine Advisory Panel Vote
Trump Says Putin "Has Really Let Me Down"
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Texas
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KTVT-TV
Public File for KTXA-TV
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue