Make trains great again — for the sake of people and the planet
Skip to main content
Thank you for visiting nature.com. You are using a browser version with limited support for CSS. To obtain
the best experience, we recommend you use a more up to date browser (or turn off compatibility mode in
Internet Explorer). In the meantime, to ensure continued support, we are displaying the site without styles
and JavaScript.
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
Log in
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature
editorials
article
Make trains great again — for the sake of people and the planet
Download PDF
EDITORIAL
16 September 2025
Make trains great again — for the sake of people and the planet
As railways enter their third century of service, research must support their renaissance for more-sustainable travel that supports human development.
Twitter
Facebook
Email
China leads the world in the scale of its expansion of high-speed rail, but there’s no settled view on the benefits of such networks. Credit: Wenpu Wang/Getty
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
What if there were a technology that could help to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, air pollution and environmental degradation, while improving health, reducing social inequality and boosting economic growth? There is, and this month it turns 200. The opening of the Stockton and Darlington Railway in northeast England on 27 September 1825 is generally considered to be the birth of the modern railway — an event that set in motion a revolution in human mobility and social organization.Transporting food generates whopping amounts of carbon dioxideInitially, the railways enjoyed breakneck expansion, but since the mid-twentieth century, railway development in most countries has hit the buffers, and been overtaken by growth in road and air travel. A study by the Paris-based International Transport Forum (ITF) of 51 mainly high- income countries found that rail’s share of freight transport had fallen from 38% in 1980 to 24% in 2017 (see go.nature.com/3vpckhd). In the European Union in 2022, just 8.4% of passenger kilometres were travelled by rail, compared with 9% by air and 73% by car.Despite prominent investments in high-speed rail in Japan, China and parts of Europe, the overall length of networks in many countries has declined as conventional lines deemed unprofitable have been cut. Meanwhile, rail transport is a low priority in many low- and middle-income countries, where networks are sparse or non-existent. The entire African continent, for example, has just 87,000 kilometres of rail. By contrast, India has at least 65,000 kilometres, and a land surface area just one-tenth of the size.It’s time to turn the tables, and acknowledge the vast benefits of railways as a cornerstone of a sustainable transport system that can support human development and economic growth. Research from across disciplines can inform policy in preparation for a much-needed renaissance, as railways travel into their third century.According to the International Energy Agency, transport currently accounts for around one-quarter of global carbon dioxide emissions. Between 1990 and 2022, those emissions grew by 1.7% a year — an increase greater than that of any sector besides industry — as more people in more parts of the world became more mobile. Over 90% of the energy used to power transport comes from fossil fuels.Those figures alone justify a renewed focus on rail transport. Per passenger kilometre, it produces one-fifth of the emissions of car transport, and less than one-quarter of those of flying. Direct emissions can be cut to zero if trains are powered by fully renewable electricity.Chinese investments fuel growth in African scienceRail transport also contributes little in the way of air-fouling particulate emissions, which are a health hazard. This is particularly important in a rapidly urbanizing world. Better rail-based mass-transit options could help to reduce urban sprawl, as well as the land needed for roads, car parks and other car-related infrastructure. Less-congested cities with fewer motor vehicles are more liveable places where people are more inclined to walk and cycle, reaping the health benefits of these activities. They are also more inclusive, particularly for younger and older people who are less likely to own a vehicle. As both urbanization and average population density grow, research shows that the economic benefits of investment in rail outstrip those of investment in roads1.But it is not just cities. The United Kingdom will be celebrating its role in birthing the railways later this month, but the country also offers an example of the effects disinvestment in railways can have. A 2024 study2 examined a sustained programme of cuts made to the nation’s railway network from the 1950s to the 1980s. It found that the predominantly rural areas most affected by the cuts saw population declines, job losses and drops in the number of skilled workers, relative to areas that were unaffected.One way research can help to get things back on track is by broadening the criteria governments use to assess railway investment, says Christian Wolmar, an independent transport consultant and author based in London. All too often, these are based on narrow metrics of profitability or ‘time saved’ by potential users, with insufficient consideration of the wider social and environmental impacts. Economists, other social scientists and sustainability researchers can all contribute to developing more-robust assessments of these indirect benefits.How China is redrawing the map of world scienceSuch initiatives can feed into broader regulatory and policy frameworks. Only one-third of countries have fully incorporated the transport sector into their ‘nationally determined contributions’ — their ongoing commitments to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions under the 2015 Paris climate agreement — according to an ITF tracker (see go.nature.com/4nxdiju). To meet net-zero targets, emissions from transport need to decline by 3% a year from now on.Research can also illuminate the winners and losers created by investment decisions. China, for example, is set to continue the breakneck expansion of its high-speed rail, aiming to reach 60,000 kilometres by 2030. But scholars are debating the wisdom of the speed and scale of this expansion, with uncertainty remaining about how widely the economic benefits of high-speed links are distributed3.At its zenith, immediately before the First World War, the US rail network extended to more than 400,000 kilometres — greater than the distance from Earth to the Moon. Today, it covers little more than half of that. The extent of this decline underscores the need to turn around the neglect of a technology that has not only changed the world, but could also save the planet.
Nature 645, 560 (2025)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-025-02980-2
ReferencesZheng, Q. Y., Law, T. H., Wong, S. V. & Ng, C. P. Transp. Pol. 153, 87–96 (2024).Article
Google Scholar
Gibbons, S., Heblich, S. & Pinchbeck, E. W. J. Urban Econ. 143, 103691 (2024).
Google Scholar
Blanquart, C. & Koning, M. Eur. Transp. Res. Rev. 9, 12 (2017).
Google Scholar
Download references
Reprints and permissions
Related Articles
How China is redrawing the map of world science
Chinese investments fuel growth in African science
Transporting food generates whopping amounts of carbon dioxide
Read the paper: Climate-resilient railway networks: a resource-aware framework
Subjects
Engineering
Policy
Latest on:
Engineering
Soft robot steers itself down the human airway
Research Highlight 18 SEP 25
Bioelectronic implants built from rolled-up stretchy circuits
News & Views 17 SEP 25
Addressing the safety of next-generation batteries
Perspective 17 SEP 25
Policy
Pharmaceutical giants pull out of UK: why it matters for global science
News 17 SEP 25
Fertility declines are no cause for concern, history shows
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Impoundment of funds endangers US investment in science and medical research
Correspondence 16 SEP 25
Jobs
Postdoctoral Fellow
Seeking a Postdoctoral Fellow to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which a new endolysin interacts with Gram-negative bacterial membranes.
Christchurch (Locality), Canterbury (NZ)
Biomolecular Interaction Centre, University of Canterbury
Apply for Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) via China CDC (CAPE)
Excellent Young Scientists Fund (Overseas) supports young scholars in conducting innovative research
Beijing (CN)
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention (Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine)
Seeking Talents: Faculty Positions in AI at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Full/Associate/Assistant Professor Positions of State Key Labs are opening.
Beijing, Nanjing and Wuhan
Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Global Recruitment for Faculty, Postdocs, and Specialists at Hangzhou Institute of Medicine, CAS
Seeking exceptional Senior/Junior PIs, Postdocs, and Core Specialists globally year-round
Hangzhou, China
Hangzhou Institute of Medicine Chinese Academy of Sciences (HIMCAS)
Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences)
Job Title: Associate or Senior Editor, Nature Communications (Geosciences) Location(s): Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey Ci...
Shanghai, Beijing, Nanjing, New York, Washington, Jersey City, Madrid, Milan (hybrid)
Springer Nature Ltd
You have full access to this article via your institution.
Download PDF
Related Articles
How China is redrawing the map of world science
Chinese investments fuel growth in African science
Transporting food generates whopping amounts of carbon dioxide
Read the paper: Climate-resilient railway networks: a resource-aware framework
Subjects
Engineering
Policy
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Close banner
Close
Get the most important science stories of the day, free in your inbox.
Sign up for Nature Briefing
Explore content
Research articles
News
Opinion
Research Analysis
Careers
Books & Culture
Podcasts
Videos
Current issue
Browse issues
Collections
Subjects
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
About the journal
Journal Staff
About the Editors
Journal Information
Our publishing models
Editorial Values Statement
Journal Metrics
Awards
Contact
Editorial policies
History of Nature
Send a news tip
Publish with us
For Authors
For Referees
Language editing services
Submit manuscript
Search
Search articles by subject, keyword or author
Show results from
All journals
Search
Advanced search
Quick links
Explore articles by subject
Find a job
Guide to authors
Editorial policies
Nature
(Nature)
ISSN 1476-4687 (online)
ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
nature.com sitemap
About Nature Portfolio
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
protocols.io
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Research Solutions
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded
content
Professional development
Nature Awards
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Japan
Nature Middle East
Privacy
Policy
Use
of cookies
Your privacy choices/Manage cookies
Legal
notice
Accessibility
statement
Terms & Conditions
Your US state privacy rights
© 2025 Springer Nature Limited