What to Invest in: 13 Stocks to Buy in One Bright Area Ahead of Earnings - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Markets
These 13 stocks in a small corner of the market should be on investor radars as earnings season nears
By
Jennifer Sor
Spencer Platt/Getty Images
2025-09-25T09:15:01Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
UBS thinks small and mid-cap industrials stocks are poised for gains heading into earnings season.
The bank highlighted 13 stocks in the sector it thnks investors should be watching.
Wall Street is growing increasingly bullish on small- and mid-cap stocks with more rate cuts expected.
Earnings season is just around the corner—and there's a handful of stocks in one under-the-radar area of the market investors should be keeping their eye on, UBS told clients this week.The bank highlighted its top picks in small- to mid-cap industrials sector—a corner of the market that could have runway to outperform as firms get ready to report their financial results, analysts wrote.
"We also believe the double-digit valuation discount for SMID Industrials vs. the Large Cap Multis provides further runway for our coverage to outperform, and that shifting investor focus and rotation towards SMIDs could be a meaningful theme existing 2025," the analysts said.Forecasters are feeling increasingly bullish on SMID stocks now that the Fed has resumed its rate-cutting cycle. Smaller companies are more sensitive to changes in borrowing costs as they fund themselves more in the debt markets compared to large-cap peers, who tend to have more cash on hand. Industrial stocks, meanwhile, are having a fabulous year, with the sector up 16% year-to-date, compared to the S&P 500's 13% gain.
Here are 13 buy-rated companies UBS highlighted:
Zebra Technologies Corp.
Business Insider
Ticker: ZBRAYear-to-date performance: -19%What the analysts say: "We think 2H25 results and likely demand momentum into 2026 will drive upside following the stock's 2Q correction. We expect upward revisions to 2026 consensus EPS estimates as 2H results beat on margins, and Elo deal accretion is added to models, with notable potential upside to 4Q sales should lingering tariff uncertainty dissipate by November."Zebra's valuation, which is near a multi-year low, also makes it an attractive investment opportunity, analysts said, adding that the company was the bank's top pick within the SMID Industrials sector.
SPX Technologies
Business Insider
Ticker: SPXCYear-to-date performance: +24%What the analysts say: "We remain confident in the underlying business and earnings set-up for 2H and into 2026. We sense that newly raised capital could be deployed sooner rather than later, not only for inorganic investments like Ingenia's US capacity build, but also for acquisitions."The company also has a "unique" and outsize opportunity in data centers, UBS said, adding that the stock was among its list of "winners that should keep winning" in the sector.
ITT Inc.
Business Insider
Ticker: ITTYear-to-date performance: +24%What the analysts say: "As outlined in our last Q's preview, we have viewed 2025 EPS guidance as relatively conservative; we continue to expect ITT to navigate towards the high end of the latest guidance range of $6.35-$6.55," analysts wrote."If anything, we think our model forecast of ~3% organic growth this year could prove light, especially considering orders and backlog growth the last few Qs."
Crane Holdings
Business Insider
Ticker: CRYear-to-date performance: +19%What the analysts say: "We continue to like the set up for CR earnings; we expect 2025 EPS to exceed guidance range of $5.50-$5.80 (UBSe is $5.95). Updated guidance from 2Q seems conservative to us, particularly on A&E sales growth and implied 2H margins."
Cognex Corp.
Business Insider
Ticker: CGNXYear-to-date performance: +27%What the analysts say: "CGNX growth starting to broaden outside of warehouse and 2026 Street estimates look too low; also positive on new mgmt."CGNX's second-quarter results also "reaffirmed" the bank's "Buy" rating on the stock, analysts said, pointing to the company's earnings beat in the last reporting period.
Teledyne Technologies
Business Insider
Ticker: TDYYear-to-date performance: +23%What the analysts say: "TDY's orders strength keep us constructive on 2H results; return of M&A flywheel does not look priced in."They continued: "The longer cycle A&D businesses are likely seeing continued healthy growth, and might even be outperforming given military funding stimulus in the EU and rising drone-based operations which we think benefits TDY."
Flowserve Corp.
Business Insider
Ticker: FLSYear-to-date performance: -3%What the analysts say: "The stock has begun to recover since the cancellation of the proposed merger with GTLS; we expect investor focus to shift back towards the company's self-help / margin expansion opportunity. We also expect secular/LT growth drivers in nuclear / power gen to recapture investor attention."
Xylem Inc.
Business Insider
Ticker: XYLYear-to-date performance: +22%What the analysts say: "Similar to last Q, we expect XYL to report 3Q results that are ~in-line to slightly better than mgmt EPS guidance ($1.20-$1.25), and we are reaffirming our 2025 EPS estimates which are at the high end of guidance range."
Pentair PLC
Business Insider
Ticker: PNRYear-to-date performance: +8%What the analysts say: "We reiterate our Buy and $120 PT, as we remain confident in PNR's self-help/transformation journey plus an improved demand environment for much of the business in 2026."
Gates Industrial Corporation PLC
Business Insider
Ticker: GTESYear-to-date performance: +19%What the analysts say: "We continue to believe that Street estimates are too low for 2026. Considering the backdrop of 3+ year demand downturn, we would expect a lower interest rate / less uncertainty tariff environment to support HSD organic growth acceleration as short cycle activity returns."
SiteOne Landscape Supply Inc
Business Insider
Ticker: SITEYear-to-date performance: +1%What the analysts say: "We are Buy rated on the stock owing to: 1) high beta play on interest rates cuts (both direct business impact and NPV of future M&A); 2) SG&A initiatives and GM expansion opportunity: 3) excessively discounted valuation (relative EV/EBITDA at historic lows)."
Stanley Black & Decker Inc
Business Insider
Ticker: SWKYear-to-date performance: -5%What the analysts say: "We think SWK remains a lesser preferred stock among Industrial investors, but we like the stock owing to its outsized leverage to lower interest rates, margin improvement opportunity, and deep valuation discount."
Vontier Corp.
Business Insider
Ticker: VNTYear-to-date performance: +17%What the analysts say: "We reiterate our Buy rating on VNT. We see upside to our $50 PT should: 1) the stock begin garnering more investor attention and re-rate higher from its deeply discounted current P/E multiple; and 2) the company continues buying back shares at its current pace representing ~1/2 of FCF."
Recommended video
UBS
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account