Cult horror movie Trick 'r Treat finally hits theaters in October
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Trick ‘r Treat is beloved by sickos, but still wildly underseen
A cult horror hit is finally getting a re-release in time for Halloween
By
Matt Patches
Published Sep 15, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Related
The stunning brilliance of Silksong's Hornet hover
Sep 13, 2025
3 Game Pass games we're playing this weekend (Sept. 12-14)
Sep 12, 2025
'I still consider this my hobby': Balatro creator explains why the game's big update is delayed
Sep 12, 2025
Sign in to your Polygon account
Image: Warner Bros. Pictures
Trick ’r Treat, the horror anthology from writer-director Mike Dougherty (Krampus, Godzilla: King of Monsters), has lived in the hearts of horror movie fans’ ever since Warner Bros. Pictures dumped it on DVD in 2009. Now it’s finally getting its due: Fathom Entertainment has teamed up with WB to put a 4K version of the movie in theaters this October. Twisting a number of stories together — a werewolf story starring Anna Paquin; a serial killer tale with Spider-Man’s Dylan Baker; Brian Cox being hunted down by the murderous masked child known as “Sam” — Trick ’r Treat arrived in the pre-Blumhouse, pre-Conjuring era when studios had much less faith in a quirky, R-rated horror movie. Today it probably would have slayed with the Five Nights at Freddy and Annabelle crowds, but in 2009, it was deemed unreleasable. But Dougherty’s look for Sam, emblazoned across posters, merch, and DVD boxes, ensured that Trick ’r Treat could be easily paraded around and recommended come spooky season. This year, it’s actually back in theaters. It's fascinating that, for as culty as it is, Trick ’r Treat still remains relatively underseen. According to Letterboxd, even indie breakouts like Terrifier have been viewed and logged more times than Dougherty’s film, which has long been the subject of sequel talk. Based on how theatrical re-releases have boosted movies like Coraline from underwhelming box-office performer during its premiere to sizable hit in modern times, Fathom’s theatrical stunt might be exactly what Trick ’r Treat needs to be, finally, a mainstream hit. Along with the 4K version of Trick ’r Treat, Dougherty’s original animated short that introduced Sam and inspired the film will also get a 4K remaster and release in front of the feature. Dougherty originally produced Season’s Greetings in 1996, when he was a student at New York University — and it became the bedrock of his screenwriting and directing career. Let that be a lesson to us all! Trick ’r Treat will arrive to theaters for just two nights: Oct. 14 and 16. Check Fathom for a complete list of nationwide theaters.
Horror
Movies
News
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
Sign in to your Polygon account
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
Sep 12, 2025
Virtual Boy is back, baby!
Sep 14, 2025
Link and Zelda aren't dating, you weirdos
Sep 13, 2025
Life is Strange's TV adaptation needs one crucial thing to capture the game's heart
Sep 13, 2025
The Nintendo Switch 2's year-one game lineup keeps getting stranger
More from our brands
The Connections Between Quentin Tarantino's Movies, Explained
Everything We Know About Shrek 5
Skate Release Time and Date
50 Best New Movies on Streaming to Watch Right Now
Nintendo Direct September 2025: Live Updates & Everything Announced
42 classic PC games you can (and should) still play today
Halloween Horror Nights 2025: A Newbie's Review
Most Popular
Weapons is getting an Aunt Gladys prequel — whether you like it or not
PlayStation's next State of Play streams this Wednesday
Magic: The Gathering just teased the return of a beloved Universes Beyond set
Balance saving the world and personal drama in the Invincible TTRPG
The Mandalorian movie could make up for Star Wars' biggest misfire
Hideo Kojima and Jordan Peele's OD gets first proper trailer, and the P.T. vibes are strong
See More
Trending Now
0:32
Can the U.S. handle a 28 Years Later-style outbreak?
Superman, Elio, Ne Zha 2 and every movie new to streaming this weekend
Dragon Ball Sparking Zero's next DLC brings more than just Daima cameos
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.