MacOS Tahoe finally turned me into a desktop widget user - here's why | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Home
Tech
Services & Software
Operating Systems
Mac OS
MacOS Tahoe finally turned me into a desktop widget user - here's why
For many desktop and mobile users, widgets are essential. I've avoided them for the longest time… until Apple changed my mind.
Written by
Jack Wallen, Contributing WriterContributing Writer
Sept. 22, 2025 at 8:00 p.m. PT
Jack Wallen/ZDNETFollow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.ZDNET key takeawaysIf you've refused to use widgets, MacOS Tahoe may change your mind.Thanks to Liquid Glass, widgets are sexy again.Only add the widgets you need.Widgets aren't exactly the most divisive topic in the tech-sphere, but for some, they are simply a waste of time. For others, however, they are crucial for creating an efficient experience.Me? I've lived in the middle of that spectrum, where they simply haven't been a factor in my life.Also: 6 features I wish MacOS would copy from LinuxMacOS Tahoe has changed that opinion, and I now see desktop widgets for what they are… handy little tools that can make life a bit easier.My first experience with widgetsThe first time I noticed widgets was around 2008, when the KDE developers introduced them to the world of open-source desktops. Back then, they were fairly rudimentary, but still interesting. There were widgets for things like clocks, calculators, notes, and folders.Unfortunately, I never really found a must-have widget, so none ever found its way to my desktop. It wasn't for lack of trying, as I did give it my best go. But I much prefer a clean, minimal desktop. I've never been one to even have a single clickable icon on my desktop because I think it doesn't look as good. I've seen others with so many desktop icons that I'm not sure how they find anything. Also: 5 things I love about MacOS 26 Tahoe after one week with it on my MacBesides, isn't that what a dock/panel is for?To date, my desktops and home screens (regardless of OS) have always followed that same idea: cleaner is better. I don't want things getting in the way, causing chaos, or cluttering my view.Until last week.What changed?What changed was MacOS Tahoe and Liquid Glass. As soon as my MacBook Pro was upgraded to Tahoe, I immediately realized the UI was so beautiful that maybe it was time to explore aspects I've shrugged off for so long. One of the first things I checked into was widgets, and, to my surprise, I found them elegant enough to remain on my desktop.I only added two widgets: a clock and an event widget. The second I added them and saw how they looked with the Liquid Glass UI, and I was sold. I know, I know… it seems shallow to allow the look and feel of something to influence whether you accept or reject it. For me, however, the aesthetic plays an important part in my desktop layout. Given I stare at my desktop all day and night, I don't want to have an ugly UI staring at me. Thanks to Liquid Glass, there's nothing ugly about MacOS, and by nothing, I do mean nothing. Liquid Glass is gorgeous, and that translates to highly attractive widgets.Also: How to customize MacOS Liquid Glass and make it uniquely yoursThe real selling point for me was the transparency of the widgets. I can add widgets and, thanks to the glassy look, I get the best of both worlds: elegant and functional. When I added the two widgets on my MacOS desktop, I assumed I'd leave them there for a few hours (for testing purposes) and then remove them almost immediately after. The reality is that they're still there.Why?Once Liquid Glass gave me the look I wanted, I could use those widgets in earnest, and I was truly surprised at how well they served me. All of a sudden, I could tell the time on my laptop, without needing to first don my glasses, and I could see what's up next for my day without opening a calendar. As well, I could check the weather without first grabbing my phone or opening a webpage.Also: How to update apps in MacOS: Two optionsDon't get me wrong, I'm not ready to fill my display with widgets, because that will probably never happen. I've scrolled through every desktop widget offered by MacOS (and the apps I've installed) and found that the majority of them would be of no help to me. As far as my Linux desktop, System76's COSMIC doesn't offer widgets (at least not yet), so I won't be using them until the OS allows.The same thing holds true for the KDE Plasma widget feature: I'm not going to load the display with Widgets, just for kicks. For me to add a widget, it has to make a positive impact on my day-to-day activities; otherwise, it's just taking up precious space.Widgets I'd like to seeIf I had my way, there would be widgets for the following:SSH connectionsRunning terminal commandsOllama local AIThat's pretty much the extent of my widget needs. I'm sure if I dug deep enough, I'd find more widgets to use, but as it stands, that's it.Although my widget use is minimal, I'm glad that MacOS's Liquid Glass has made me see the light, because the widgets I do now use are quite handy.Adding a widget in MacOSFor those who don't know, adding a widget in MacOS is simple. To do this, right-click (or two-finger tap) on the MacOS desktop, select Edit Widgets, and then drag and drop the widgets you want to live on your desktop. Once you've done that, close the Edit Widget window, and you can right-click (or two-finger tap) one of the widgets and edit it as needed.You can also adjust the widget style within System Settings > Appearance > "Icon & widget style." I have mine set for a clear icon style and a pink folder color.
Make sure to check out the Appearances section, so your widgets look as good as the rest of your desktop. Jack Wallen/ZDNETIf you're looking to make MacOS just a bit more efficient, I'd highly recommend you give in to peer pressure and try desktop widgets. You won't regret jumping on this particular bandwagon.Follow ZDNET: Add us as a preferred source on Google.Featured
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
I've reviewed every iPhone 17 model, and my advice is something different this year
This is my all-time Linux distro - and I've tried them all
How to turn on Android's Private DNS mode - and why it makes such a big difference
How to upgrade your 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 - for free
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
This beautiful Linux distro deserves to be better known - here's why
8 smart home gadgets I invested in this year - and how they're already paying off
6 note-taking apps for Mac and PC I swear by after trying them all
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use