Frequently Asked Questions | WIREDSkip to main contentMenuSECURITYPOLITICSTHE BIG STORYBUSINESSSCIENCECULTUREREVIEWSMenuAccountAccountNewslettersSecurityPoliticsThe Big StoryBusinessScienceCultureReviewsChevronMoreExpandThe Big InterviewMagazineThe New Era of Business TravelEventsWIRED InsiderWIRED ConsultingNewslettersPodcastsVideoMerchSearchSearchSign InSign InFrequently Asked QuestionsAbout WIREDWIRED is the essential source of reporting and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. Part of the Condé Nast portfolio, WIRED leads the conversation on how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from business and politics to culture and science.Becoming a SubscriberHow do I subscribe or give a gift subscription?Please visit our subscription page to find the best option for your needs.When will my first issue arrive?Digital access begins immediately. You should receive your first issue between eight and ten weeks after purchasing a print subscription.Contact customer service if you are experiencing any delivery problems.What does my subscription include?All subscriptions provide unlimited digital access to the website, subscriber-only newsletters, and invitations to Livestream AMAs. Print subscribers also receive the print edition of the magazine, published at least four times per year.My subscription included a tote bag. When can I expect it to arrive?The tote ships six to eight weeks after your payment is processed. International orders may take longer to ship, and packages may be delayed at customs. We regret that our staff cannot track tote bags after they enter the postal system.What forms of payment do you accept?We accept Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, and Diners Club cards. We also accept PayPal, Apple Pay, and Amazon Pay. Alternatively, checks can be mailed to WIRED, P.O. Box 37617, Boone, IA 50037-0617.Can I get a receipt or confirmation of my subscription, account details, or cancellation?Yes, our staff would be happy to send you a receipt. After subscribing, you can expect to receive a confirmation email within twenty-four hours. For all other requests, please visit our contact us page.When will I be charged?Credit cards are charged as soon as your order is received. It may take up to three days for the charge to appear on your credit card statement. Before the start of each renewal, you will be emailed a reminder notice summarizing the details of your subscription and the rate that you will be charged.Why do I need to provide a mailing address for a digital subscription?If your subscription includes a physical premium, we need your mailing address to deliver it to you.Can I subscribe to WIRED if I live outside the United States?Yes. You can subscribe to WIRED from most countries, although it may take longer to receive print issues in the mail. For assistance, Please visit our contact us page to submit this request.Managing Your SubscriptionI forgot my password. How can I recover it?Go to WIRED.com and click Sign In (top-right corner of your screen)Select Sign in another way and enter your email addressIf you are using a password to sign, click “Forgot your password? Reset it”If there is a WIRED subscription associated with your email address, we will send you instructions for resetting your password.How do I make changes to my email address or password?Please visit My Account to manage your WIRED.com account information, including your email address and password.What does it mean to link or verify my subscription? Why is this important?Creating an online account and subscribing to the magazine are independent operations. It is possible to create an online account without being a subscriber and vice versa. In order to read unlimited articles online as a subscriber, you’ll need to link your subscription to your WIRED account.This process may be necessary for customers who have never created an account or registered an email address with us.To link your subscription:Sign In or Create an AccountIf the system does not recognize you immediately, you will need to enter your account number or subscription number, which can be found in two places: the Account Summary section of Customer Care and the mailing label of a magazine if you are a print subscriber.Or select the link to use your shipping address.If you have trouble linking your subscription, please visit our contact us page to submit this request.How do I unsubscribe from WIRED?You can cancel your subscription (or a gift subscription) within your online account page or contact customer service for assistance.What is your cancellation policy?You’re in full control of your subscription and can cancel at any time. When you purchase a subscription—whether it includes print and digital access or digital access only—it begins immediately.Please note that we do not offer refunds for cancellations. When you cancel, your subscription will remain active through the end of your current billing term, and you will not be charged again.How can I receive confirmation of my cancellation?Our staff would be happy to send you a confirmation. Please visit our contact us page to submit this request.How do I check when my subscription expires?You can view the expiration date of your subscription (or gift subscription) via Customer Care.How do I temporarily suspend my subscription?Print subscribers can stop their subscription (or gift subscription) for up to one year and then resume it via customer care.If I suspend my print subscription, will I still have access to WIRED.com and the WIRED apps?Full access to the website and apps is available only to subscribers, so while your subscription is suspended, you will have limited access.WIRED UK Website ClosureI am a WIRED UK subscriber; how do I access content on WIRED.com?If you have already created an account to access the Wired UK digital edition, simply visit wired.com and sign in using the same email address and password associated with your subscription.If you haven't already created an account to access the digital edition, please follow the instructions below:Register your account and use your print subscription customer number and surname to create a digital access account. If you do not know your customer number, you can locate it here or with our customer service team.From there, head to wired.com and sign in using the same email address.I am a subscriber to WIRED UK magazine. Will I still be able to receive my magazines?Yes, your WIRED UK magazine subscription will continue uninterrupted unless a cancellation is initiated.Digital All AccessWhat is WIRED Digital All Access?The WIRED All Access subscription provides digital access to WIRED, Vanity Fair, Vogue, Architectural Digest, Bon Appétit, and Epicurious.*If selected at an additional cost, The New Yorker access is also included. To add New Yorker access, please contact customer support at 1-855-226-5869.What is included in the WIRED Digital All Access subscription?Unlimited access to WIRED, Vanity Fair, Vogue, Architectural Digest, Bon Appétit, and Epicurious. (If selected at an additional cost, The New Yorker access is also included.)Free WIRED tote bagComplete online archive access for most brandsHow much does the WIRED Digital All Access subscription cost?To see our latest offers, visit our order page.How do I sign up for a WIRED Digital All Access subscription?To see our latest offers, visit our order page.If I already have a WIRED digital subscription, can I upgrade to Digital All Access?Yes, you can upgrade your WIRED subscription to a Digital All Access subscription by contacting customer care via phone at 855-226-5869 and +1 332-237-7084 (if outside the United States) or email help@wired.com. All Access is not available for print subscriptions.If I already have a Vogue, Vanity Fair, The New Yorker, Architectural Digest, Bon Appétit, or Epicurious subscription, can I change to Digital All Access?Other subscriptions cannot be bundled individually at this time. If you are interested in a WIRED Digital All Access subscription, please contact customer care via phone at 855-226-5869 and +1 332-237-7084 (if outside the United States) or email help@wired.com. All Access is not available for print subscriptions.If I cancel my WIRED Digital All Access subscription, can I maintain my Vanity Fair, Vogue, The New Yorker, Architectural Digest, Bon Appétit, and Epicurious access?Canceling your Digital All Access subscription will result in a loss of access to all brands included.Does the WIRED Digital All Access subscription include app access?The New Yorker (iOS and Android) and Epicurious (iOS) apps are included with your Digital All Access subscription.Privacy policy & user agreementUse of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement and Your California Privacy Rights. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast Ad Choices.Reading on a Phone, Computer, or TabletWhy should I create an online account?All readers are encouraged to create a free online account, regardless of their subscription status, so you can take advantage of features like saving stories to read later. If you have not done so, please create a free account now.Are all WIRED articles available online?All articles originally published online or in the print magazine are online and available with your subscription. The first print magazine was published in March/April 1993. You can also find print replicas of issues dating back to 2021 in our online archive.Do I need a subscription to access WIRED.com?If you are not a subscriber, you have limited access to WIRED’s website. All web visitors can browse all Gear articles without a subscription.Is the magazine available on mobile and tablet devices?Yes. The WIRED app includes web versions of all magazine articles, and it is available through the App Store. Digital editions of the magazine are also available through the Nook bookstore.Which devices support the WIRED app?The WIRED app can be downloaded to your iPhone, iPad, or iPod for free from the App Store. While the app is not currently available for Android devices, Android users can read WIRED stories online.Do I need a WIRED subscription to access the WIRED app?Yes. The app is exclusive to subscribers and is free to download. If you subscribed directly through WIRED (including WIRED.com or the WIRED app), you can view as many articles and issues as you'd like. If eligible, non-subscribers will be invited to explore the app through a free trial.Can I share stories from the WIRED app through email or social media?Yes, the link will direct viewers to the story on our website.I subscribed through the WIRED app on my iPhone, iPad, or iPod. How do I get unlimited online access?Immediately after you subscribed through the app, you were prompted to create an online account. If you have not done so, you can now.If you subscribed through the WIRED app:Open the app and select Settings in the top-right corner of the screen.Select Sign in or create an account.If you do not see Sign in or create an account, select Restore your Apple purchase.I purchased a subscription through the WIRED app. How can I cancel it?If you subscribed through the WIRED app, you’ll need to cancel through Apple.I subscribed to WIRED through Amazon but am no longer able to sign into WIRED.com.Due to changes at Amazon, Amazon subscribers have limited access, and new issues are no longer available on KindlePlease visit our contact us page to submit this request.I purchased a WIRED subscription on my Nook Color Tablet. Does that provide unlimited digital access to WIRED?If you purchased a subscription directly from Barnes & Noble, your access is limited to your Nook Color Tablet. If you have questions, please visit Barnes & Noble’s contact us page.How do I get unlimited access to WIRED on my Nook?If you’re already a subscriber, open the Nook Bookstore.Visit the WIRED page.Order a monthly subscription to begin a fourteen-day trial. You will not be charged.After submitting your order, check your in-box. You will receive an email with instructions for redeeming your free offer as an active magazine subscriber.How do I get unlimited access to WIRED on my Android phone or tablet?Subscribers can read WIRED on an Android phone or tablet via WIRED.com. You can also follow WIRED via Google News, but you will need to sign in to our website to read articles.Do I need a subscription to follow WIRED in Google News?WIRED’s feed is free to follow, though subscribers will need to sign in to our Web site to read articles.How can I access WIRED articles published on Flipboard?WIRED’s feed is free to follow at https://flipboard.com/@WIRED. Articles link to WIRED.com, where subscribers have unlimited access and non-subscribers have limited access.I purchased a WIRED subscription on Zinio. Does that provide unlimited digital access to WIRED?If you purchased a subscription on Zinio, your access is limited to Zinio. If you have questions, please visit Zinio’s contact us page.How do I sign up for email newsletters?Visit wired.com/newsletter to sign up for any of our offerings, including The Daily, Classics, Gadget Lab, and more.Where can I get my subscriber-only newsletters?After subscribing, and when logged-in, you can sign-up for your subscriber-only newsletter at the Newsletter Hub.I signed up for your newsletters. Why am I not receiving them regularly?Please check your junk folder. If the problem persists, please visit our contact us page to submit your request.How do I unsubscribe from a newsletter or marketing e-mail?To unsubscribe from a newsletter, select Unsubscribe at the bottom of the e-mail or sign in to newyorker.com and navigate to My Account from the top-right corner. You can manage your newsletter subscriptions at the bottom of your profile.For all marketing emails, select Unsubscribe at the bottom of the email.How can I listen to WIRED audio and podcasts?Explore our Podcasts hub, or download episodes for free from iTunes and most other platforms. Also available is Spoken Layer, narrated versions of our best articles.How to Contact WIREDHow can I contact editors or contributors?To provide feedback, please visit wired.com/about/feedback.How can I submit an idea or piece?Visit wired.com/about/how-to-pitch-stories-to-wired.How can I advertise in WIRED?Please contact us at adinquiries@condenast.com.About the WIRED Reviews teamWhat is the WIRED Reviews team?WIRED’s Reviews team is a group of 13 full-time staff writers and editors with centuries of combined experience who conduct comprehensive testing on products, services, and software to write in-depth reviews and buying guides. The team was founded in 2017 and one of its original members, Adrienne So, is still on staff as a senior editor. We also work with a small group of trusted freelance contributors who are experts in their field. You’ll find an author bio that outlines each tester’s expertise on any review we publish. Our mission is to provide the most authentic and engaging buying advice for every product our audience needs or wants, to pioneer product discovery for tech enthusiasts, and to serve as a trusted hub for fair and thoughtful product reviews.How does WIRED select products to test and review?We’re looking to write about products our readers are interested in, which means everything from groundbreaking new tech to novel gadgets they’ve seen all over social media, to products like bed-in-a-box mattresses where it’s difficult for any individual consumer to do proper comparison shopping. Our audience is tech-savvy, so you’ll see lots of coverage of mobile phones, laptops, gaming devices, and the like, but WIRED readers also like to live comfortably and healthfully, score great deals, and often enjoy outdoor recreation.Why should I trust WIRED’s product reviews?Because we tell the truth and we do the work. WIRED’s Reviews team tests every product and service we write about, even when we’re picking the best Amazon Prime Day deals. Our product recommendations are made in service to readers and independently of revenue considerations. While we do get a small cut of most sales when readers click to buy recommended products discussed in our product reviews and buying guides, the content in those guides is created through a rigorous and independent editorial process and is subjected to the same high standards as everything else WIRED publishes. Content from our Reviews team is fact-checked by editors and goes through the same prepublication review process as any other WIRED story. When we make a mistake, we immediately correct it and append an editor’s note for transparency as appropriate.Does the WIRED Reviews team use generative AI?No. We follow the same editorial standards as everything else published by WIRED. You can read our whole policy here, but the gist is that we do not publish stories with text generated by AI, except when AI-generated text is the point of the story.Do you purchase every product you test?No, but we do not accept “free products” from manufacturers or make any agreements that involve a promise of editorial coverage in exchange for sending us a product. We often accept delivery of review samples directly from PR agencies and brands, which we typically don't pay for. We return or donate these samples after testing. When we know a specific product is of interest to readers and a review sample is not available, WIRED will purchase the product and the writer will donate it after testing.How does the WIRED Reviews team conduct testing for product reviews?How we test each product depends on what it is. We thoroughly test anything we recommend to readers and try to explain our methodology in each article without bogging it down with excessive detail many readers don’t care about. Our overall goal in all testing is to replicate the product’s regular use as closely as we can—this is why we review mattresses by sleeping on them in our homes rather than dropping a bowling ball on them in a lab where we conduct “nap tests.” Since our testing methodology is a popular question with both readers and brands, we’ve compiled the basic protocols for some of our key coverage areas below.Ebikes: WIRED reviews upward of 50 new ebikes a year by riding them on a variety of terrain for at least 40 miles over the course of at least two weeks. We test cargo bikes by hauling kids and groceries, we ride mountain and gravel bikes on trails, and we test commuter bikes while running errands on regular city streets (including up and down steep hills). In addition to our real-life testing, we evaluate specs like weight, tire size, battery life, motor power, and the sourcing of key components to make our guides to the Best Ebikes and Best Cheap Ebikes.Electric scooters: WIRED reviewers ride electric scooters for at least 30 miles, though often much longer, on varying terrain and under various power loads (such as laden with groceries or up and down steep hills). Our main tester, the author of our guide to the Best Electric Scooters, is Brooklyn-based Julian Chokkattu, who takes electric scooters on the same routes through Bushwick during his tests so he can evaluate how a scooter may deviate from the established baseline.Fitness trackers: WIRED’s lead tester wears fitness trackers for at least two weeks and evaluates them on fit, specifications, durability, battery life, whether she can see the display in natural daylight, and whether features perform as advertised—for example, AI coaching, climbing software, or GPS tracking. She also evaluates companion smartphone apps based on ease of use and claimed features.Mattresses: We sleep on any mattress we recommend for at least a week in our own homes, though we sometimes give up on a mattress after a few nights (we then tell readers to avoid it), and we will sometimes spend months long-term testing. Lead reviewer Martin Cizmar has established a level of real-life mattress testing that’s unmatched among our competitors, who frequently do a "nap test" where they form an opinion after sitting around on a mattress in their office.Office chairs: We sit on every chair we test for several weeks while working—two weeks at the minimum, but often much longer than that. We also invite different friends and family members to try the chairs out so we can assess comfort levels for folks with different heights and body types.Mobile phones: To compile our expansive library of smartphone reviews and guides, our testers use any smartphone they’re reviewing for at least a week, but sometimes longer. We test each phone by loading in our own SIM cards and using the phone as we would any personal device for the duration of the testing period. To compare cameras, we take the same photos on a second, similarly priced phone at the same time and study the results. For phone cases, which we test for at least a few days each, we look for alignment between ports and holes, check all buttons for clickiness, judge how it feels in our pockets, and check for how much the case is raised over the screen and camera lenses. We don't do drop tests as we don’t have enough free phones to replace all the broken ones.Internet routers: WIRED tests Wi-Fi and mesh routers for at least one week, though often longer, in a home setting. We test the stated features and introduce stress testing, such as cutting the power to see how routers cope with a sudden loss of power. Our lead tester, Simon Hill, also runs a bevy of technical tests, including network throughput testing, file transfers, coverage heatmaps, and speed tests—all organized into a handy (and impressive) spreadsheet.Air Purifiers: WIRED reviews more than 50 new air purifiers a year, assessing them in various home environments from coast to coast for months at a time. We test air purifiers in both homes and 100-year-old apartments with cats, dogs, and gas stoves, and near highways and in urban areas. In addition to our real-world testing, we measure decibel levels, ease of use, and efficacy, and we evaluate cost, design, length of warranty, and most importantly, the rate of air exchange in a specific-size room, making our deep dives, reviews, and Best Air Purifier guide essential reading.Soundbars: WIRED’s staffers, including Parker Hall and Ryan Waniata, evaluate soundbars using a wide variety of testing material, from custom-made Dolby Atmos demos to familiar movies like Guardians of the Galaxy, sitcoms like Seinfeld and Parks and Recreation, and everything in between. We test apps and features like auto-calibration, surround sound speakers, and multiroom audio integration in multiple settings wherever possible. For music testing, we stream carefully curated playlists and random radio stations at compressed and lossless resolutions over Bluetooth and Wi-Fi where available. We live with these products over multiple days at minimum to test their usability the same way we expect you to use them.Headphones and earbuds: Headphones and earbuds come in a multitude of styles, sizes, and varieties and we test them in accordance. For all headphones we test, sound quality, comfort, and fit are of the utmost importance. For wireless headphones and earbuds, we pay special attention to key aspects like ease of pairing and setup, battery life, app connection and settings, and convenience features like speak-to-chat. When focusing on sound quality, we use curated playlists with familiar music (from Fleetwood Mac’s “The Chain” to The Weeknd’s “Starboy”) in both compressed and lossless resolution where applicable. For spatial audio, we test music and videos in multiple formats, including Dolby Atmos.Televisions: TVs are among the most important products in A/V, and we test them accordingly. We spend at least a week with each TV we test, using it day and night as our daily driver. We utilize carefully selected video and audio content (from Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows on Blu-ray to Our Planet in Dolby Vision and Atmos on Netflix). Our testing material runs the gamut, including live broadcasts, streaming content, and physical media with high-end Ultra HD Blu-ray players. We use Spears & Munsil’s latest Ultra HD Benchmark discs to lock in settings and evaluate multiple resolution and HDR formats, including Dolby Vision, HDR10, and HDR10+. We watch content in various light conditions and test usability features, from smart assistants to services like AirPlay 2 and Chromecast to paint a holistic picture.Running gear: Our lead writer runs four to five times a week, around 20 to 25 miles per week, and evaluates the gear’s overall performance with a mix of long runs, interval runs, and trail and road running.Pizza ovens: To name the best pizza ovens, we test each oven in our backyard for a minimum of two weeks. While using the oven, our testers also use handheld infrared thermometers to take the temperature of the baking stone at various places to gauge how evenly they heat and cook. We test all ovens with homemade dough, store-bought dough, and frozen pizzas.Luggage and backpacks: WIRED tests luggage designed primarily for air travel by taking it on at least two flights. When reviewing backpacks, our testers wear them for at least two weeks. In addition to this regular use, we also evaluate design details, like whether they have straight or curved zippers, what gauge the zippers are, whether they're toothed or coiled, what the warranty is, whether the hardware is metal or plastic, or whether the fabric is sustainable. Our reviewers also do things like fill backpacks full of books and toss them around, and kick carry-on bags to see whether they get foot marks or are easy to clean.Umbrellas: Our testers use umbrellas several times, whenever it rains. We test them as a normal person would while checking for the main hallmarks of what makes a good umbrella, as listed in our buying guide. We also aim to get a good sense of how each umbrella handles gusts and heavy storms.Webcams: We use every webcam we test for several weeks as a daily driver, and our testers also try to compare the image quality with another similar model. Reviewers make audio recordings to see how the mics pick up their voices. Webcam testers often solicit feedback on appearance and sound quality during our weekly Gear team meetings, which take place over Zoom.Bidets: For our guide to the Best Bidets, our testers install the bidets on a toilet in their homes and use each sample for at least a week.Monitors: Reviewer Nena Farrell leads our coverage of the best computer monitors and tests each pick for at least one week, with a minimum of three working days. She sets monitors up with both a PC and Mac laptop to check performance, and she runs at least two different video games to see how the monitor performs, even if it isn't a monitor designed specifically for video games.Camp cookware: Reviewer Scott Gilbertson famously lives in an RV, so he is always testing camp cookware. In fact, grills and other cookware are tested for months before they ever make it into a guide. He cooks outside every day, rotating stoves every few months so he gets a good sense of how they perform, how they stand up to weather, and how hard they are to clean.Tents: We aim to spend at least a week in every tent, ideally in a variety of weather conditions. Every pocket, zipper, guy line, and feature is tested. Will the rainfly catch on the door zippers? Is the ventilation good? Is the tent easy to set up? We assess all of the above and more, and list our favorites in our Best Tents buying guide.Meal kits: When testing meal kit delivery services, each service is evaluated meal-by-meal over the course of a few days. Our lead reviewer follows recipes to the letter and substitutes ingredients only if something arrives inedible—for example, if something thaws during shipment or the produce is moldy (these substitutions are always noted). She always has at least one other person try a meal and notes down both of their first impressions and opinions before discussing the meal further. She assesses packaging, ingredient quality, texture, and taste, then factors in price to make recommendations.Security cameras: Indoor and outdoor security cameras are tested for at least one month. We test any manufacturer claims and special features, like motion detection or smartphone alerts, and stress-test the cameras as well. We also test videofeed quality and loading times.Video doorbells: We test video doorbells for a minimum of two weeks. Any manufacturer claims are tested and verified, as are smartphone companion apps or smart home connectivity options. We also consider the data storage, retention, and privacy policies of the manufacturers of each camera we test, as these things also factor into our recommendations.Sex toys and tech: We test sex tech for a minimum of two weeks using common sense. We test on different erogenous zones and different bodies. We also conduct controlled tests for features like battery life, waterproofness, and ease of cleaning. We test manufacturer claims as well.Espresso machines and coffee gear: We use espresso machines and coffee gear for at least two weeks in everyday situations. We also perform some controlled tests. Our lead reviewer tests for consistency, how hot the heating elements get, how quickly they heat up, how much time needs to pass between switching functions (brewing versus steaming), and the like. She also tests general usability. Is the machine easy to clean and maintain? Are things that need to be cleaned easily accessible? Does it look nice on the counter or does it seem to acquire a grime after only a couple uses? Does the steaming wand work efficiently? All of these factors inform our assessment.Coffee grinders: Our lead reviewer assesses coffee grinders for at least two weeks using a mix of everyday use and controlled tests. She’s mostly testing for consistency, as well as factors like how quickly grime builds up in the burrs, how accessible the burrs are for cleaning, how loud the grinder is, and how finely or coarsely it can grind. She also assesses for ease of cleaning and overall maintenance requirements.Digital cameras: We test cameras by using them over a period of (ideally) months, but often just weeks because DSLR cameras, compact system cameras, and mirrorless cameras are generally loaned to us on a short-term basis, and camera companies are eager to pass them on to the next reviewer. Our lead reviewer tries to shoot at least 500 images on every camera he tests. He then views and edits the resulting RAW and JPG files in Darktable.Coolers: We test coolers by putting a standard bag of cube ice inside it on a warm day (at least 75 degrees Fahrenheit), putting the cooler in the shade, and then timing how long it takes for the ice to melt. We also assess weight, portability, durability, and overall design.Binoculars: We test binoculars by going birding. And to baseball games. And stargazing. For months and months.Most PopularScienceHow Energy-Generating Sidewalks WorkBuying GuidesThe Best Automatic Cat Litter BoxesSecurityThese Are the 15 New York Officials ICE and NYPD Arrested in ManhattanBuying GuidesThe Best VPNs to Protect Yourself OnlineWIRED is where tomorrow is realized. It is the essential source of information and ideas that make sense of a world in constant transformation. The WIRED conversation illuminates how technology is changing every aspect of our lives—from culture to business, science to design. The breakthroughs and innovations that we uncover lead to new ways of thinking, new connections, and new industries.SubscribeNewslettersTravelFAQWIRED StaffWIRED EducationEditorial StandardsArchiveRSSAccessibility HelpReviewsBuying GuidesMattressesElectric BikesSoundbarsStreaming GuidesWearablesTVsCouponsGift GuidesAdvertiseContact UsManage AccountJobsPress CenterCondé Nast StoreUser AgreementPrivacy PolicyYour California Privacy Rights© 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. WIRED may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad ChoicesSelect international siteUnited StatesLargeChevronItaliaJapónCzech Republic & SlovakiaFacebookXPinterestYouTubeInstagramTiktok