Jimmy Kimmel's Return Monologue Slams Trump, FCC's Carr - Business Insider
Business Insider
Subscribe
Newsletters
Search
Business
Strategy
Economy
Finance
Retail
Advertising
Careers
Media
Real Estate
Small Business
The Better Work Project
Personal Finance
Tech
Science
AI
Enterprise
Transportation
Startups
Innovation
Markets
Stocks
Indices
Commodities
Crypto
Currencies
ETFs
Lifestyle
Entertainment
Culture
Travel
Food
Health
Parenting
Politics
Military & Defense
Law
Education
Reviews
Tech
Streaming
Tickets
Home
Kitchen
Style
Beauty
Gifts
Deals
Video
Big Business
Food Wars
So Expensive
Still Standing
Boot Camp
Subscribe
My account
Log in
Newsletters
US edition
Deutschland & Österreich
España
Japan
Polska
TW 全球中文版
Get the app
Media
Jimmy Kimmel's emotional return monologue took aim at Trump and the FCC chair
By
Sydney Bradley
,
Kelsey Vlamis
,
Kwan Wei Kevin Tan
, and
Cheryl Teh
Jimmy Kimmel returned to ABC on Tuesday night.
Randy Holmes/Disney via Getty Images
2025-09-24T04:18:38Z
Share
Facebook
Email
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Bluesky
WhatsApp
Copy link
lighning bolt icon
An icon in the shape of a lightning bolt.
Impact Link
Save
Saved
Read in app
Add us on
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Jimmy Kimmel is back at ABC after being suspended over comments about Charlie Kirk.
Sinclair and Nexstar still aren't airing Kimmel's show on their ABC affiliate stations.
An hour before the show aired, President Donald Trump took to Truth Social to slam Kimmel and ABC.
Jimmy Kimmel returned to the air on Tuesday night with an emotional monologue that took aim at the chair of the Federal Communications Commission, Brendan Carr, and President Donald Trump while seeking common ground with conservatives defending free speech.
Kimmel walked out onstage to resounding cheers from the audience. His appearance on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" was his first public response since ABC temporarily suspended production of the show last week."I also want to thank all of you. You supported our show, cared enough to do something about it, to make your voices heard so that mine could be heard. I'll never forget it," Kimmel said.
Several minutes into his monologue, Kimmel teared up and assured his audience that he never intended to make light of the killing of the conservative activist Charlie Kirk."And the truth is, I don't think what I have to say is going to make much of a difference. If you like me, you like me. If you don't, you don't. I have no illusions about changing anyone's mind," Kimmel said."This show is not important. What is important is that we get to live in a country that allows us to have a show like this," Kimmel added.
Kimmel thanked Disney, ABC's parent company, for bringing him back on air."With that said, I was not happy when they pulled me off the air on this. I did not agree with that decision, and I told them that, and we had many conversations," Kimmel said.He also referred to ongoing calls from people on social media to boycott Disney for suspending the show by canceling their streaming subscriptions.
"Disney has asked me to read the following statement, and I have agreed to do it," Kimmel said, before reading out the instructions on how to reactivate a canceled Disney+ subscription.Kimmel lays into Trump and the FCC's CarrIn the latter half of his monologue, Kimmel criticized Trump's stance on free speech and accused him of being unable to take a joke.Kimmel said he felt lucky to live in a country where he had the freedom to speak.
"And that's something I'm embarrassed to say, I took for granted, until they pulled my friend Stephen off the air, and tried to coerce the affiliates to run our show in the cities that you live in to take my show off the air," Kimmel said, referring to Stephen Colbert. "That's not legal. That's not American. That is un-American."
Related stories
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Kimmel slammed the FCC's Carr, whose comments on a podcast preceded the show's suspension.Carr told the podcaster Benny Johnson on Wednesday that broadcasters "can find ways to change conduct and take actions on Kimmel." Otherwise, the FCC would have to step in to do it themselves, he added.
"We can do this the easy way or the hard way," Carr said.Kimmel called Carr's statements "a direct violation of the First Amendment" and "not a particularly intelligent threat to make in public.""You want to hear a mob boss make a threat like that? You have to hide a microphone in a deli and park outside in a van with a tape recorder all night. This genius said it on a podcast," Kimmel added.
Kimmel's monologue is a sign that he and other late-night hosts won't go quietlyKimmel's tone during his monologue on Tuesday is a clear indicator that he and other late-night show hosts will continue to be a thorn in Trump's side. At a moment when he could have struck a more conciliatory tone with the president, Kimmel ceded no ground where his rights on free speech were concerned.That was despite harsh criticism from the president. An hour before the show, Trump took to Truth Social to criticize both Kimmel and ABC.Trump wrote in his post that Kimmel was "another arm of the DNC" and said Kimmel's show was, to the best of his knowledge, a "major Illegal Campaign Contribution."
"I think we're going to test ABC out on this. Let's see how we do," Trump said, before referencing a bumper settlement he received from ABC after he sued the network for defamation."This one sounds even more lucrative. A true bunch of losers," he added.Despite the threats from the administration, Kimmel and the other late-night hosts have held the line. Jon Stewart of "The Daily Show" dedicated two recent monologues to criticizing the Trump administration's stance on free speech.
In his Monday night episode, Stewart said Trump was "using all the levers of government" to punish his opponents."So you can get on board with that and say, 'I'm with that,' or you can join the rest of us and fight like hell for this constitutional republic," he said.John Oliver, another comedian known for sharp takes on the news, dedicated a full half-hour of his "Last Week Tonight" episode on Sunday to breaking down the Kimmel fracas and its implications for free speech.
"He's just the latest canary in the coal mine," Oliver said of Kimmel. "A mine that at this point now seems more dead canary than coal."Whatever Trump's plans are for Kimmel, one thing is clear: Late-night is a united front, and they're going to keep talking about him for as long as they can.Overwhelming support for KimmelBefore Tuesday night's show, Kimmel hadn't publicly addressed the suspension. In an Instagram post on Tuesday morning, Kimmel shared a photo of himself and Norman Lear, the late American screenwriter and producer known for championing progressive causes.
"Missing this guy today," Kimmel wrote.Some fans appeared outside the show's filming location on Hollywood Boulevard on Tuesday to express their support for the late-night comedian's return.
Supporters appeared outside the filming location of "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" on Tuesday.
Aude Guerrucci/Reuters
Kimmel's suspension last week had become a cultural flash point that many saw as an encroachment on free speech. Hollywood stars, fellow late-night television hosts, and politicians vocally expressed support for Kimmel. Protesters gathered outside Walt Disney Studios in Burbank, California, and in New York, where another rally took place outside ABC's offices. Meanwhile, some Disney+ and Hulu subscribers threatened to cancel their subscriptions in protest.
ABC had made the call last week to pull the late-night television star from the air after Kimmel's comments about Kirk's death and Trump. His remarks had drawn backlash from the FCC's Carr, and the affiliate station owners Nexstar and Sinclair said they wouldn't air the show.The situation with Nexstar and Sinclair isn't settled, despite Kimmel's return.After the Walt Disney Company announced Kimmel's return on Monday, Sinclair said in a statement that it wouldn't air the show on its ABC affiliate stations, replacing it with news programming. The company said it was still in talks with ABC and evaluating the show's "potential return." Carr said he supported the company's decision.
Last week, Sinclair said it wouldn't lift the suspension on Kimmel's show until "appropriate steps" were taken and called for an apology to Kirk's family, among other demands.Nexstar followed suit. On Tuesday, the company said it would continue to air alternative programming instead of Kimmel's show on its ABC affiliate stations.
Recommended video
ABC
Disney
President Donald Trump
More
Hollywood
Read next
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
Business Insider tells the innovative stories you want to know
HOME
Subscribe
This story is available exclusively to Business Insider
subscribers. Become an Insider
and start reading now.
Have an account? Log in.
Legal & Privacy
Terms of Service
Terms of Sale
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Code of Ethics Policy
Reprints & Permissions
Disclaimer
Advertising Policies
Conflict of Interest Policy
Commerce Policy
Coupons Privacy Policy
Coupons Terms
Your Privacy Choices
Company
About Us
Careers
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
News Tips
Company News
Awards
Masthead
Other
Sitemap
Stock quotes by finanzen.net
International Editions
AT
DE
ES
JP
PL
TW
Copyright © 2025
Insider Inc. All rights reserved.
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
and
Privacy Policy.
Jump to
Main content
Search
Account