Sacramento ABC TV station building struck by gunfire; suspect in FBI custody - CBS Sacramento
Latest
U.S.
Comey Indicted
TikTok Deal
World
Politics
Entertainment
HealthWatch
MoneyWatch
Crime
Space
Sports
Brand Studio
Local News
Atlanta
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
Live
CBS News 24/7
Baltimore
Bay Area
Boston
Chicago
Colorado
Detroit
Los Angeles
Miami
Minnesota
New York
Philadelphia
Pittsburgh
Sacramento
Texas
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Shows
48 Hours
60 Minutes
CBS Evening News
CBS Mornings
CBS Morning News
CBS Reports
CBS Saturday Morning
The Daily Report
The Dish
Face the Nation
Sunday Morning
The Takeout
The Uplift
CBS News Investigates
CBS News Confirmed
CBS Village
Podcasts
Newsletters
Download Our App
CBS News Team
Executive Team
Brand Studio
Paramount+
Join Our Talent Community
RSS Feeds
Davos Interviews
A Moment With...
Innovators & Disruptors
Economy 4.0
Sacramento
|
News
Weather
Sports
Video
Your County
All News
Sacramento News
California News
Politics
Health
Consumer
Investigations
Wildfires
Pets
Consumer Investigations
Uplifting
Latest Weather
Weather Watchers
Radar
Send Your Weather Footage
All Sports
Friday Gameday
Sports Sunday
CBS Sports HQ
Kings
49ers
SF Giants
A's
Raiders
Sharks
El Dorado County
Nevada County
Placer County
Politics At Large
Sacramento County
San Joaquin County
Solano County
Stanislaus County
Yolo County
Yuba and Sutter Counties
CBS13 News Team
Advertise
Contact Us
Volunteer For Consumer Investigations
Galleries
Links & Numbers
Send A News Tip
See What's On CBS13
Contests
Download The App
Watch CBS News
Local News
Sacramento ABC TV station building struck by gunfire; suspect in FBI custody
By
Cecilio
Padilla
Cecilio
Padilla
Digital Producer, CBS Sacramento
Cecilio Padilla is a digital producer for CBS Sacramento and a Sacramento-area native who has been covering Northern California for more than a decade.
Read Full Bio
Cecilio
Padilla
Updated on:
September 22, 2025 / 9:29 PM PDT
/ CBS Sacramento
Suspect in shooting at Sacramento ABC station arrested, released on bail
Suspect in shooting at Sacramento ABC station arrested, released on bail
01:40
A man arrested in connection with a shooting at a television station building in Sacramento faces federal charges and made a federal court appearance on Monday after he was arrested by the FBI over the weekend.Sacramento police say officers responded to the 400 block of Broadway, the ABC10 building, just after 1:30 p.m. local time on Friday to investigate reports of shots fired. At the scene, police say officers found that the building had been struck by gunfire. Police say at least three rounds struck the building, apparently hitting a window. No injuries were reported. Police classified the incident as a drive-by shooting, saying it appeared a vehicle drove by the building, fired, then drove away. Anibal Hernandez-Santana, 64, was arrested by the Sacramento Police Department on three charges related to a drive-by shooting at the ABC10 building in Sacramento on Friday. He was arrested on charges of assault with a deadly weapon, shooting into an occupied building, and negligent discharge of a firearm, according to the Sacramento Police Department. By Saturday afternoon, Hernandez-Santana was released on bail, listed at $200,000.
Hernandez-Santana was arrested later the same day by the FBI, a spokesperson confirms to CBS Sacramento, on probable cause of willfully or maliciously interfering with or causing interference to a radio communications station.Monday, FBI Director Kash Patel commented on the arrest in a post on X. "Targeted acts of violence are unacceptable and will be pursued to the fullest extent of the law," Patel wrote. The defense attorney for Hernandez-Santana said Sunday that he was caught off guard by the FBI's involvement in the case.
Hernandez-Santana made his initial appearance in federal court in Sacramento on Monday, and now also faces charges of possession and discharge of a firearm within a school zone. The motive for the shooting remains under investigation, the department said. But the federal complaint released on Monday revealed some details. Prosecutors stated there was a handwritten note, which references FBI Director Kash Patel, FBI Deputy Director Dan Bongino and Attorney General Pam Bondi, as well as Jeffrey Epstein, and reads: "For hiding Epstein & ignoring red flags. Do not support Patel, Bongino, & AG Pam Bondie [sic]. They're next. – C.K. from above."He will make his first appearance on the local charges in Sacramento on Tuesday.
The apparent bullet holes seen in the window of the ABC10 building.
KXTV Channel 10 is an ABC affiliate station owned by Tegna. ABC sparked controversy this week when it suspended "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" after the host's comments about the death of Charlie Kirk. "We haven't had a lot of attacks on our media partners, and we'd like to keep it that way," said Anthony Gamble, a public information officer for the Sacramento Police Department. "This is unacceptable behavior. And so you know, to those that may have been responsible for this, and I hope you see this, we're not going to stop looking for you. This is unacceptable behavior. It's not going to be tolerated in Sacramento.""While details are still limited, importantly all of our employees are safe and unharmed," said Molly McMahon, a spokesperson for Tegna. "We are fully cooperating with law enforcement and have taken additional measures to ensure the continued safety of our employees."California Gov. Gavin Newsom's office issued a statement on X after the governor was briefed on the shooting.
"While no injuries have been reported, any act of violence toward journalists is an attack on our democracy itself and must be condemned in the strongest terms," Newsom's office said. "We stand with reporters and staff who work every day to keep communities informed and safe!"In a statement Monday, Sacramento County District Attorney Thien Ho announced his office would be filing felony charges of discharging a firearm into an inhabited dwelling and assault with a semi-automatic firearm -- along with a personal use of a firearm allegation -- against Hernandez-Santana.
More from CBS News
ICE head says deadly Dallas facility shooting was an "indiscriminate" attack
Dallas ICE office targeted in deadly shooting faced bomb threat last month
Ryan Routh guilty in Trump assassination attempt, tries to stab himself after verdict
10 killed in Ecuador prison riot days after deadly jailbreak
ABC
Sacramento
Crime
Cecilio
Padilla
Cecilio Padilla is a digital producer for CBS Sacramento and a Sacramento-area native who has been covering Northern California for more than a decade.
© 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Featured Local Savings
More from CBS News
ICE head says deadly Dallas facility shooting was an "indiscriminate" attack
Dallas ICE office targeted in deadly shooting faced bomb threat last month
Ryan Routh guilty in Trump assassination attempt, tries to stab himself after verdict
10 killed in Ecuador prison riot days after deadly jailbreak
Featured
Dallas ICE Facility Shooting
Trump U.N. Speech
NFL Week 4 Picks
CFB Week 5 What to Watch
Follow Us On
YouTube
Facebook
Instagram
TikTok
X
CBS News Sacramento
Meet the Team
Program Guide
Contests & Promotions
Advertise With Us
Sitemap
Regulation
Public File for KOVR-TV
Public File for KMAX-TV / Good Day Sacramento
Public Inspection File Help
FCC Applications
EEO Report
Privacy
Privacy Policy
California Notice
Your Privacy Choices
Terms of Use
Company
About Paramount
Advertise With Paramount
Join Our Talent Community
Help
Feedback
©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
View CBS News In
CBS News App
Open
Chrome
Safari
Continue