AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple's Super-Slim iPhone Air Had Me on Edge... Until I Tested It
02
iPhone 17 Early Review: Long-Overdue Upgrades Make a Big Difference
03
iPhone 17 Pro Max Review: Part Midlife Crisis and Part Battery-Life King
04
iOS 26 Review: A New Look I'll Be Happy With for the Next 12 Years
05
Can This Home Security Robot Replace My Cameras?
06
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
CNET/Tharon Green
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
Think of them as AI factories, churning out your responses from ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude and all the other generative AI tools. The costs are staggering.
Corin Cesaric Editor Corin Cesaric is a Flex Editor at CNET. She received her bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri-Columbia. Before joining CNET, she covered crime at People Magazine and national and international news at NBC Local Television Stations. Expertise Home | Health | Energy | Climate Change | AI | Appliances
See full bio
Corin Cesaric
Aug. 23, 2025
2:25 a.m. PT 17 min read
From the outside, this nondescript building in Piscataway, New Jersey, looks like a standard corporate office surrounded by lookalike buildings. Even when I walk through the second set of double doors with a visitor badge slung around my neck, it still feels like I'll soon find cubicles, water coolers and light office chatter.
Instead, it's one brightly lit server hall after another, each with slightly different characteristics, but all with one thing in common — a constant humming of power.
The first area I see has white tiled floors and rows of 7-foot-high server racks protected by black metal cages. Inside the cage structure, I feel cool air rushing from the floor toward the servers to prevent overheating. The wind muffles my tour guide's voice and I have to shout over the noise for him to hear me.
Outside the structure it's quieter but there's still a white noise that reminds me of the whooshing parents use to get newborn babies to sleep. On the back of the servers, I see hundreds of cords connected — blue, red, black, yellow, orange, green. In a distant server, green lights are flashing. These machines, dozens of them, are gobbling electricity. In all, this building can support up to 3 megawatts of power.
This is a data center. Facilities like it are increasingly common across the US, sheltering the machinery that makes our online lives not only possible, but nearly seamless. Data centers host our photos and videos, stream our Netflix shows, handle financial transactions and so much more. The one I'm visiting, owned by a company called DataBank, is modest in scope. The ones coming in one after another to suburban communities and former farmlands across the US, riding the tidal wave of artificial intelligence's swift advances, are monstrous.
CNET/Tharon GreenIt's a building boom based on generative AI. In late 2022, OpenAI launched ChatGPT and within two months it had approximately 100 million users and had spurred a frantic scramble among the biggest tech companies and a host of newborn startups. Now, it has nearly 700 million active users each week and 5 million paying business users. We are inundated with chatbots, image generators and speculation about superintelligence looming in the not-too-distant future. AI is being woven into our everyday lives, from banking and shopping to education and language learning.
Amazon, Apple, Google, Meta, Microsoft and OpenAI are all spending massive amounts of money to drive that growth. The Trump administration has also made it clear that it wants the US to lead AI innovation across the globe.
"We need to build and maintain vast AI infrastructure and the energy to power it," the White House said in July in a document called America's AI Action Plan, which calls for streamlined construction permitting and the removal of environmental regulations. "Simply put, we need to 'Build, Baby, Build!'"
Building, and building big, is very much on the mind of Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg. He's been touting his company's plans for an AI data center in Louisiana, nicknamed Hyperion, that would be large enough to cover "a significant part of the footprint of Manhattan."
All of that is adding up to an enormous demand for electricity and water to run and cool those new data centers. Generative AI requires energy-intensive training of large language models to do its impressive feats of computing. Meanwhile, a single ChatGPT query uses 10 times more energy than a standard Google search, and with millions of queries every day — not just from ChatGPT but also from the likes of Anthropic's Claude, Google's Gemini and Microsoft's Copilot — that's a staggering increase in the stresses on the US electrical grid and local water supplies.
In this article:
AI growth has caused a data center boom
"Say no to a data center in our community"
"They have only sold the positives"
How much energy do AI data centers use?
Environmental impact
Are climate pledges enough?
Is there a data center near you?"Data centers are a critical part of the AI production process and to its deployment," said Ramayya Krishnan, professor of management science and information systems at Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College. "Think of them as AI factories."Big tech companies are sensitive to critiques of their AI data center push. In August, Google published a technical paper saying Gemini's per-query energy use is becoming more efficient, and its environmental impact is improving.But as data centers grow in size and number, often drastically changing the landscape around them, questions are looming: What are the impacts on the neighborhoods and towns where they're being built? Do they help the local economy or put a dangerous strain on the electric grid and the environment?
AI growth has caused a data center boom
On the outskirts of communities across the country — and sometimes smack dab in the middle of cities like New York —
giant AI data centers are springing up.
Meta, for instance, is investing $10 billion into its 4-million-square-foot Hyperion data center, planned to open by 2030. An explosion of construction is likely coming to Pennsylvania. In July, at an energy summit in Pittsburgh attended by President Donald Trump, developers announced upward of $90 billion for AI in the state, including a $25 billion investment from Google.
Perhaps the most ambitious undertaking is unfolding under the auspices of a new company called the Stargate Project, backed by OpenAI, Oracle, Softbank and others. In late January, on the day that Trump was sworn in to his second term as president, OpenAI said that Stargate would invest $500 billion in AI infrastructure over the next four years.
CNETAn early signature facility for Stargate, amid reports of early struggles, is a sprawling data center under construction in Abilene, Texas. OpenAI said last month that Oracle had delivered the first Nvidia GB200 racks and that they were being used for "running early training and inference workloads." The publication R&D World has reported that the 875-acre site will eventually require 1.2GW of electricity, or the same amount it would take to power 750,000 homes.  (Disclosure: Ziff Davis, CNET's parent company, in April filed a lawsuit against OpenAI, alleging it infringed Ziff Davis copyrights in training and operating its AI systems.)
Currently, four tech giants —
Amazon Web Services, Google, Meta and Microsoft —
control 42% of the US data center capacity, according to BloombergNEF. The sky-high spending on AI data centers has become a major contributor to the US economy. Those four companies have spent nearly $100 billion in their most recent quarters on AI infrastructure, with Microsoft investing more than $80 billion into AI infrastructure during the current fiscal year alone.
Not all data centers in the US handle AI workloads —
Google's data centers, for instance, power services including Google Cloud, Maps, Search and YouTube, along with AI —
but the ones that do can require more energy than small towns. A July report from the US Department of Energy said that AI data centers, in particular, are "a key driver of electricity demand growth."
From 2021 to 2024, the number of data centers in the US nearly doubled, according to report from Frontier Group, the Environment America Research & Policy Center and the US PIRG Education Fund. And according to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the need for data centers is expected to increase by 9% each year until at least 2030. By 2035, data centers' US electricity demand is expected to double compared with today's.
CNET/Tharon GreenHere's another way to look at it: Speaking before the Senate Commerce Committee in May, Microsoft President Brad Smith said his company estimates that "over the next decade, the United States will need to recruit and train half a million new electricians to meet the country's growing electricity needs."
As fast as the AI companies are moving, they want to be able to move even faster. Smith, in that Commerce Committee hearing, lamented that the US government needed to "streamline the federal permitting process to accelerate growth."
This is exactly what's happening under the Trump administration. Its AI Action Plan acknowledges that the US needs to "build vastly greater energy generation" and lays out a path for getting there quickly. Among its recommendations are creating regulatory exclusions that favor data centers, fast-tracking permit approvals and reducing regulations under the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act.
One step already taken: The Trump administration rescinded a Biden administration executive order —
outlining the need to ensure AI development and use was done ethically and responsibly —
to reduce "onerous rules imposed."
'Say no to a data center in our community'Early this year, June Ejk set up the Facebook page called Concerned Clifton Citizens to keep her neighbors informed about the happenings in Clifton Township, Pennsylvania. Now, her main focus is stopping a proposed 1.5GW data center campus from coming to the area that she's called home for the past 19 years.
The developer, 1778 Rich Pike, is hoping to build a 34-building data center campus on 1,000 acres that spans Clifton and Covington townships, according to Ejk and local reports. That 1,000 acres includes two watersheds, the Lehigh River and the Roaring Brook, Ejk says, adding that the developer's attorney has said each building would have its own well to supply the water needed.
CNET/Tharon Green/Jeffrey Hazelwood"Everybody in Clifton is on a well, so the concern was the drain of their water aquifers, because if there's that kind of demand for 34 more wells, you're going to drain everybody's wells," Ejk says. "And then what do they do?"
Ejk, a retired school principal and former Clifton Township supervisor, says her top concerns regarding the data center campus include environmental factors, impacts on water quality or water depletion in the area, and negative effects on the residents who live there.
Her fears are in line with what others who live near data centers have reported experiencing. According to a New York Times article in July, after construction kicked off on a Meta data center in Social Circle, Georgia, neighbors said wells began to dry up, disrupting their water source.
The data center Ejk is hoping to stop hasn't yet been approved —
the developer has to get zoning ordinances amended and signed off on before moving forward —
but Covington Township has shown an interest in the project moving forward. For her part, Ejk has created and shared a "say no to a data center in our community" flyer with a call-to-action for her fellow citizens to attend monthly board of supervisors meetings for discussions on the topic.
"I worry about the kind of world I'm leaving for my grandchildren," Ejk says. "It's not safer, it's not better, and we're selling out to these big corporations. You know, it's not in their backyard, it's in my backyard."
If one or both of the townships do decide to move forward with the project, Ejk won't stop there.
"I'm going to be telling residents to get your wells tested now, because if, after [the data centers] are built and the quality of your water changes, you will have to have a basis of what changed," she said.'They have only sold the positives'In Louisiana, some residents are welcoming Meta's planned data center in Richland Parish, the one that Zuckerberg says would cover a large part of Manhattan. Others, like Julie Richmond Sauer, believe it could harm the entire state.
The facility will be located between the towns of Rayville, population of roughly 3,300, and Delhi, population 2,500.
"It is 2,250 acres of farmland that will never be farmed again," Sauer, a registered nurse in central Louisiana, tells me. "That, of course, is a concern of mine, for my children and my grandchildren one day."
She also thinks job development, a key selling point for data centers, is often overestimated.
"It was sold by our legislators as, 'Hey, we're getting jobs,' which sounds wonderful. 'We're bringing industry in,' which sounds wonderful, but then the more I'm reading, it looks like 500 jobs max," Sauer says, who compared the amount with a medium-size hospital.
Louisiana Economic Development, a state agency, expects the data center to bring in 500 "direct jobs," or permanent ones, to the area, along with 1,000 "indirect" jobs and 5,000 construction and temporary jobs at its peak. It's unclear if those construction jobs would go to locals or to workers brought in temporarily from elsewhere. Meanwhile, OpenAI is pitching vastly more jobs for 4.5GW of Stargate data center capacity in the US, should it ever come to pass: 100,000 jobs, "spread across construction and operations roles." But it also acknowledges that the construction jobs would be "short-term."
OpenAI's 4.5-gigawatt Stargate data center under construction in Abilene, Texas. CNET/Jeffrey Hazelwood"I just don't think it's enough to sell your soul for," Sauer says. "They have only sold the positives in this and not told the public the negatives, and that's a fact."
She believes ultimately that the decision on where to put these data centers should fall on a statewide public vote.
There are currently more than 5,000 data centers in the US. While no state is completely free of these computing facilities, some states, such as Virginia, have become magnets for them. Ashburn, Virginia, alone boasts 140 data centers of the more than 500 in the state, earning the area the nickname "Data Center Alley."
Texas and California, meanwhile, have more than 300 each.
Virginia is attractive for data centers thanks to tax incentives, fiber optic infrastructure and a skilled workforce. Other states are actively trying to attract data centers by offering incentives, too. But concerns are rising regarding these tax breaks and who ends up picking up the bill.
"More than 20 states are offering tax breaks to data centers in an effort to incentivize them to come to their state," Quentin Good, a policy analyst at Frontier Group, tells me. "So data centers are often given exemptions on things like the sales tax for all of the equipment that they need to fill up their data centers, and that ultimately falls on taxpayers to pay for the cost of those tax breaks."
How much energy do AI data centers use?
No matter where they're located, all data centers require a lot of power. According to the International Energy Agency, the US accounted for the largest share of global data center electricity consumption in 2024, at 45%.
The Trump administration has emphasized the need to strengthen the grid to support the coming tidal wave of data centers. The president has gone so far as to declare the situation a national energy emergency.
"The United States is experiencing an unprecedented surge in electricity demand driven by rapid technological advancements, including the expansion of artificial intelligence data centers and an increase in domestic manufacturing," an April executive order reads.
To combat this issue, the government wants to use all available power sources, monitor the US electricity supply closely and follow the new AI Action Plan.
"We've [previously] had really stable electricity demand increases of like 2% or 3%, but with a recent boom in data centers and the electrification of other things, like our homes and our vehicles, the [projected] demand for electricity is starting to jump up dramatically," Good says.
Last month, a report from the Department of Energy warned that updates to the country's electric grid are imperative for grid reliability caused by AI's escalating demands.
CNET"Absent intervention, it is impossible for the nation's bulk power system to meet the AI growth requirements while maintaining a reliable power grid and keeping energy costs low for our citizens," the report says.
AI's growth and the need for more data centers to support it are rapidly increasing the stress on the US energy grid. This strain is causing "a lower system stability," the North American Electric Reliability Corporation's 2025 State of Reliability found. The US energy grid, built in the 1960s and '70s, was not designed to handle the energy pull AI is creating.
At the end of 2023, the US energy grid —
which supports every request for electricity, from your home's lighting and air conditioning to massive industrial processes —
could handle about 1,189 gigawatts.
Meta's Hyperion, for example, will have a capacity of 2 gigawatts, or 2,000 megawatts. That's a roughly 30 times greater demand for electricity than at DataBank's EWR2 location.
"What we're seeing with new data centers is just the size difference," John Moura, NERC's director of reliability assessment and performance analysis, tells me. "For the past decade, we've probably seen a couple hundred megawatts as kind of your largest ones. Now we see interconnection requests for one or two or, I think I heard about 5-gigawatt requests, and that really changes the fundamentals of how the system is planned."
The Alliance for Affordable Energy is challenging Meta's Louisiana data center —
calling it "a power-hungry giant" —
along with Entergy Louisiana's bid to build three gas plants to power it. Citing expert testimony, the group is sounding the alarm about a potentially debilitating strain on the electric grid and the cost to the citizens of Louisiana. "It's not exactly black and white in terms of who's paying for the [data center's] upgrades that are needed," Good says, adding that utilities have an obligation to serve all customers. "If any customer moves into their service area, they have to meet that customer's needs in terms of electricity."
So, regardless of the scale of a data center, if they get approved to build in any town, the utility must provide the energy needed to power it. A large customer moving into the area could also cause a "short-term constraint on the supply of energy."
"That's going to push utility prices up for everyone who's a customer of that utility," Good says.
A study by Carnegie Mellon University and North Carolina State University, published in June, says that electricity rates could rise 8% on average across the US through 2030 because of increased demand from data centers, along with cryptocurrency generation. Electricity rates in northern Virginia, a hub of data center activity, could jump more than 25%.In a bid for additional energy sources, tech companies are turning to nuclear power as a possible solution, but Moura says nuclear power is still at least "a couple of years out."
"In the next five years, there's not too many options to build generation, and so [energy] storage can help, but it's not a source of generation," Moura says. Meta has said it will begin using nuclear energy in 2027, with Amazon and Google hoping to use nuclear energy sometime in the 2030s.
Environmental impactThe water consumption of these data centers, specifically ones that help power AI, has been top of mind for many. Data centers use water to cool the servers. This use is something that tech companies have tried —
and often failed —
to keep quiet.
In 2022, after the newspaper The Oregonian sought records about Google's water use for a data center in The Dalles, the Oregon city sued to stop the paper from releasing the information. Eventually, the paper did receive the information, which revealed that in 2021, the Google data center used a staggering 355 million gallons of water, which is roughly equal to 538 Olympic-size swimming pools.
The Oregonian's reporting helped shine a light on the natural resources these data centers need to run, and, maybe more important, it opened the question of whether our finite resources can handle the demand.
CNETAccording to Google's 2024 environmental report, the company's location that used the most water in 2023 was Council Bluffs, Iowa, home to two data centers, one built in 2007 and the other in 2012. In 2023, the Council Bluffs facilities sucked in 1.3 billion gallons of water from the local water supply. Google spent $1 billion in 2024 to expand the facility, and that year the intake rose to 1.4 billion gallons.
Meta's 2024 sustainability report doesn't break down water use by data center; it just gives an aggregate number. In 2023, its data centers worldwide took in 1.39 billion gallons of water. Just less than 50% of that was permanently removed from local water sources. Between 2019 and 2023, Meta's data center water withdrawal increased by roughly 43%, but it still uses significantly less water than Google's data centers as a whole.
When data centers consume water, a significant amount evaporates during the cooling process. The remaining water, which is often polluted, is put into the city's wastewater system.
Both companies have stated they plan to be "water positive" by 2030, meaning they want to return more water to the communities than what the data centers consume through water recycling, reusing and water replenishment projects. However, returning water to the exact source the data center drew from is not always possible. Instead, Google states it attempts to improve additional water sources in the area, restore wetlands and recycle treated wastewater in an effort to counter its water usage.
Are climate pledges enough?
Even as big tech companies invest heavily in AI, they also continue to promote their sustainability goals. Amazon, for example, aims to reach net-zero carbon emissions by 2040. Google has the same goal but states it plans to reach it 10 years earlier, by 2030. With AI's rapid advancement, experts no longer know if those climate goals are attainable, and carbon emissions are still rising.
"Wanting to grow your AI at that speed and at the same time meet your climate goals are not compatible," Good says.
For its Louisiana data center, Meta has "pledged to match its electricity use with 100% clean and renewable energy" and plans to "restore more water than it consumes," the Louisiana Economic Development statement reads.
However, questions remain around these promises. US Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, the top Democrat on the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, questioned Meta and Zuckerberg in an official inquiry in May, labeling those climate pledges as "vague." Whitehouse said he believes Meta is putting the need for data centers and natural gas generation "over climate safety." Meta has not yet responded.
Google's 2025 Environmental Report shows a 51% increase in carbon emissions in 2024 compared with 2019, despite its sustainability efforts outlined in the report.
DataBank, although smaller in scale, also has a sustainability goal tied to its more than 65 locations. It plans to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2030.
CNETJenny Gerson, DataBank's sustainability chief, tells me that DataBank has decreased emissions through "procuring renewable power on the grid" and is looking at alternative fuel sources to replace diesel fuel, including hydro-treated vegetable oil.
"So instead of pulling more fossil fuels out of the ground and burning them, you're using a plant-based source that has a much shorter carbon cycle and leaving the fossil fuels in the ground," Gerson explains.
DataBank is also prioritizing minimizing energy use by switching to LED lightbulbs throughout its data centers, optimizing air flow to keep cool air around the servers and using closed-loop water systems, "meaning you fill the loop once, and then whatever water or glycol is in there remains in there, and you do not consume more water," she says.
Microsoft is currently transitioning new data centers to closed-loop systems.
Other possible solutions include creating flexible data centers, meaning they can pull less energy from the grid when energy usage in the surrounding community is expected to be high, such as during a heat wave or when severe weather is incoming.
Meta and Google are founding members of the Electric Power Research Institute's DCFlex initiative, which aims to make more data centers flexible and help the energy grid remain reliable."Obviously, everyone wants to use the internet, they want to use AI, and we need to do it responsibly," Gerson says. "So how can we as players do that? And a lot of that is making sure we're doing it through renewable power."
Is there a data center near you?
There's at least one data center in each US state, and plenty more are on the horizon. If you don't live near one now, there's a good chance you will soon.
If you live in an area that isn't prone to natural disasters and boasts natural resources, such as an abundance of water or robust wind, tech companies may be eyeing the spot for an AI factory. Google tells me it has "a very rigorous process to select sites, which includes factors like proximity to customers and users, local talent, land, a community that's excited to work with us and availability of (or potential to bring new) carbon-free energy."
The Trump administration's AI Action Plan emphasizes the need for more data centers, electricians and HVAC technicians for the US to win the AI race.
Many of the new data centers being built are massive and impossible to miss. There will be smaller ones as well, like Databank's EWR2 facility that I visited in Piscataway —
and lots of them. The quiet in the hallways, with the powerful computing servers tucked away behind closed doors, is a stark contrast to the busy, noisy construction activity taking place across the country.
Those smaller data centers use less power and water, and they employ far fewer people —
and they're often hiding in plain sight.Visual Design and Motion | Tharon GreenArt Director | Jeff HazelwoodCreative Director | Viva TungVideo Editors | Dillon Payne, Owen Poole, JD ChristisonProject Manager | Danielle RamirezEditors | Corinne Reichert, Jon ReedDirector of Content | Jonathan Skillings
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.