You can get the M4 MacBook Pro for $300 off - one of the lowest prices we've seen | ZDNET
X
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025
Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025
I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends
Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs
Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services
Tablets TVs Wearables
Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors
Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy
Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life
Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society
Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023
Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce
Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft
Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows
How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles
Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN
Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud
Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews
Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping
Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots
Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas
Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services
tomorrow belongs to those who embrace it today
ZDNET France ZDNET Germany ZDNET Korea ZDNET Japan
Go
See all Topics Finance Education Health
Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends
Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Trending
Everything to know about October Prime Day 2025 Best October Prime Day deals overall 2025 Best October Prime Day TV deals 2025 Best October Prime Day laptop deals 2025 Best October Prime Day tablet deals 2025 Best October Prime Day phone deals 2025 Best October Prime Day gaming PC deals 2025 Best October Prime Day Apple deals 2025 Amazon deals 2025 Sam's Club deals 2025 Target Circle Week deals 2025 Walmart deals 2025 iPhone 17 review 2025 iPhone Air review 2025 I tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display glasses How to upgrade an 'incompatible' Windows 10 PC to Windows 11 Is Temu legit? Here's the truth How ChatGPT actually works What is ChatGPT and how does it benefit you? Neo QLED vs OLED ZDNET Recommends Tech
Gaming Headphones Laptops Mobile Accessories Networking PCs Printers Smartphones Smart Watches Speakers Streaming Devices Streaming Services Tablets TVs Wearables Kitchen & Household Office Furniture Office Hardware & Appliances Smart Home Smart Lighting Yard & Outdoors Innovation
Artificial Intelligence AR + VR Cloud Digital Transformation Energy Robotics Sustainability Transportation Work Life Accelerate your tech game Paid Content How the New Space Race Will Drive Innovation How the metaverse will change the future of work and society Managing the Multicloud The Future of the Internet The New Rules of Work The Tech Trends to Watch in 2023 Business
See all Business Amazon Apple Developer E-Commerce Edge Computing Enterprise Software Executive Google Microsoft Professional Development Social Media SMB Windows How AI is transforming organizations everywhere The intersection of generative AI and engineering Software development: Emerging trends and changing roles Security
See all Security Cyber Threats Password Manager Ransomware VPN Cybersecurity: Let's get tactical Securing the Cloud Advice
Deals How-to Product Comparisons Product Spotlights Reviews Buying Guides
See all Buying Guides Best Samsung phones Best Android phones Best smart rings Best blood pressure watches Best headphones for sleeping Best robot vacuum mops Best web hosting services Best travel VPNs Best VPNs Best AI image generators Best AI chatbots Best 75-inch TVs Best smartphones Best iPhones Best MagSafe battery packs Best digital notebooks Best TV antennas Best TVs Best laptops Best tablets Best smartwatches Best headphones Best live TV streaming services More
See all Topics Finance Education Health Special Features ZDNET In Depth ZDNET Recommends Newsletters Videos Editorial Guidelines
Tech
Why you can trust ZDNET
: ZDNET's expert staff finds the best discounts and price drops from reputable sellers on a regular basis. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Our process
'ZDNET Recommends': What exactly does it mean? ZDNET's recommendations are based on many hours of testing, research, and comparison shopping. We gather data from the best available sources, including vendor and retailer listings as well as other relevant and independent reviews sites. And we pore over customer reviews to find out what matters to real people who already own and use the products and services we’re assessing.When you click through from our site to a retailer and buy a product or service, we may earn affiliate commissions. This helps support our work, but does not affect what we cover or how, and it does not affect the price you pay. Neither ZDNET nor the author are compensated for these independent reviews.
Indeed, we follow strict guidelines that ensure our editorial content is never influenced by advertisers.ZDNET's editorial team writes on behalf of you, our reader. Our goal is to deliver the most accurate information and the most knowledgeable advice possible in order to help you make smarter buying decisions on tech gear and a wide array of products and services. Our editors
thoroughly review and fact-check every article to ensure that our content meets the highest standards. If we have made an error or published misleading information, we will correct or clarify the article. If you see inaccuracies in our content, please report the mistake via this form. Close
Home
Tech
Computing
Laptops
You can get the M4 MacBook Pro for $300 off - one of the lowest prices we've seen
The MacBook Pro M4 with 24GB of unified memory is marked down to $1,500 at B&H Photo-Video, a solid deal for Apple's latest Pro-level laptop.
Written by
Kyle Kucharski, EditorEditor
Sept. 22, 2025 at 8:15 a.m. PT
Kerry Wan/ZDNETMacBook Pro M4 for $1,500 (save $300 at B&H) ZD recommends
4/5 Editor's deal rating View at B&H Photo-Video When Apple's M4 processor came to the MacBook Pro laptop line, we noted how it improved upon the already powerful M3 Pro and M3 Max with smooth performance, a more efficient battery, and a new Thunderbolt 5 port for blazing-fast data transfer speeds. Also: Save up to $700 on Razer's newest gaming laptop - and get a free gameOne of the best things about the new M4 MacBook Pro is that it starts at the same price as last year's M3, making it that much easier to consider. But even better, we're seeing some deals -- like this one at B&H Photo-Video -- offering the MacBook Pro M4 with 24GB of memory for $1,499, which is $300 off the regular price.
ZD recommends
MacBook Pro M4 for $1,500 (save $300 at B&H)
View at B&H Photo-Video Besides the improvements to Apple's proprietary AI, Apple Intelligence, the MacBook M4 Pro and M4 Max have some hardware upgrades -- notably, the USB-C Thunderbolt 5 ports -- becoming some of the first laptops on the market to support faster than 120Gbps transfer speeds, 240W charging, and even better performance with external monitors. For professional creatives who use external GPUs and need a portable system that can move large files in a flash, this alone could make the MacBook Pro M4 a worthy upgrade. Speaking of displays, the mini LED on the MacBook Pro M4 -- with 1,000 nits of brightness at SDR and 1,600 nits at HDR -- pairs well with the nano-texture coating, resulting in one of the best-looking laptop displays I've seen. The matte layering reduces glare and makes it look better under indoor lighting, while the sheer brightness makes for a high-end visual experience for entertainment and creative tasks. Also: 5 things I love about MacOS 26 Tahoe after one week with it on my MacThe M4's battery life is also improved over its predecessors. Apple advertises up to 24 hours of battery life, the first for any Mac. The 14-inch MacBook Pro with M4 and 16-inch MacBook Pro with M4 Pro or M4 Max get the full-day rating, while the 14-inch MacBook Pro with M4 Pro or M4 Max falls just short at 22 hours.
The new MacBook Pro M4 regularly starts at $1,800 for the 14-inch version with 24GB of RAM and 512GB SSD, while the 16-inch starts at $2,500. This sale brings the cost down to a more accessible $1,500, a very competitive price for a top-of-the-line device that's less than a year old. For folks who have been on the fence about the new M4, this deal will likely convince them to buy. That means that inventory might not last long, with B&H specifically telling consumers that there will be a limited supply at this price.
When will this deal expire?
Deals are subject to sell-out or expire at any time, though ZDNET remains committed to finding, sharing, and updating the best product deals for you to score the best savings. Our team of experts regularly checks in on the deals we share to ensure they are still live and obtainable. We're sorry if you've missed out on this deal, but don't fret -- we're constantly finding new chances to score savings and sharing them with you at ZDNET.com.
Show more
ZDNET Recommends
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
The best laptops we've tested
Our favorite phones we've tested
The top smart rings you can buy
The best VPN services
Editorial standards
Show Comments
Log In to Comment
Community Guidelines
Related
Apple's Mac Mini M4 has dropped to its lowest price on Amazon - how to get $100 off
The MacBook Air is on sale for $799 - Here's why I recommend it for most people
Best Amazon Prime Day laptop deals 2025: I'm tracking 30 of my favorite discounts ahead of October
ZDNET we equip you to harness the power of disruptive innovation, at work and at home. TopicsGalleriesVideosDo Not Sell or Share My Personal Information about ZDNETMeet The TeamSitemapReprint Policy Join |
Log InNewslettersLicensingAccessibility
© 2025 ZDNET, A Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy |
|
Cookie Settings |
Advertise |
Terms of Use