How to use the Shark Fin and complete the "Tribal Medicine" quest in Path of Exile 2
Menu
Sign in now
Guides
Gaming
Entertainment
Close
What To Play
What to Watch
Guides
Submenu
All Guides
Pokémon Go
Donkey Kong Bananza
Clair Obscur: Expedition 33
Games
Submenu
All Gaming
Tabletop
Entertainment
Submenu
All Entertainment
Anime
Horror
Sci-Fi
Fantasy
Videos
Sign in
Newsletter
Menu
Follow
Followed
Like
Threads
More Action
Sign in now
Close
Path of Exile II
Complete the "Tribal Medicine" quest in Path of Exile 2 Act 4
How to use Shark Fin in Path of Exile 2
By
Paulo Kawanishi
Published Sep 2, 2025
Follow
Followed
Like
Thread
Link copied to clipboard
Graphics: Paulo Kawanishi/Polygon Source Images: Grinding Gear Games
Jump Links
How to use the Shark Fin in Path of Exile 2
The Shark Fin is a quest item that you'll find as you're exploring the islands in the Karui Archipelago in Path of Exile 2 Act 4. This item drops from the Great White One boss on Whakapanu Island, and, once it’s in your inventory, the “Tribal Medicine” quest will be added to your journal. Since you can’t remove this item from your inventory, completing this quest is crucial to save some inventory space. At the same time, the trouble finding a use for the Shark Fin is worthwhile. In this Path of Exile 2 guide, you will find an explanation of how to use the Shark Fin and complete the “Tribal Medicine” quest.
How to use the Shark Fin in Path of Exile 2
To complete the “Tribal Medicine” quest in Path of Exile 2, you need to visit Kaimana on Ngakanu, which is the first island to the south of Kingsmarch.
Graphics: Paulo Kawanishi/Polygon Source Images: Grinding Gear Games
We completed the quest line on Whakapanu Island in its entirety before searching for a way to use the Shark Fin, but you can get the huge item out of your inventory almost immediately after defeating the Great White One. Teleport back to Kingsmarch and talk to Makoru who can be found on the boat. Choose the option to “Set Sail” and select Ngakanu as your next destination. When you land on shore, enter the village and go to your right to find Kaimana.
Image: Grinding Gear Games via Polygon
However, if you cannot give Kaimana the Shark Fin on Ngakanu, you may need to complete the "The Search" quest, which does mean you might have to complete Act 4 before getting rid of the quest item. After you complete the Act, you can find Kaimana in Kingsmarch, where she can be found on a boat southwest of the one that you used to sail around the Karui Archipelago. By delivering the Shark Fin to her, Kaimana will let you choose between an Uncut Skill Gem (level 11), an Uncut Spirit Gem (level 11), and an Uncut Support Gem (level 4). You can only pick one, so choose wisely!
Guides
Path of Exile 2 Guides
PC
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
Close
Thread
We want to hear from you! Share your opinions in the thread below and remember to keep it respectful.
Be the first to post
Images
Attachment(s)
Please respect our community guidelines. No links, inappropriate language, or spam.
Your comment has not been saved
Send confirmation email
This thread is open for discussion.
Be the first to post your thoughts.
Terms
Privacy
Feedback
Recommended
5 hours ago
Hollow Knight: Silksong interactive map
Sep 9, 2025
Heroes of the Borderlands breaks the rules of D&D, and that’s a good thing
Sep 10, 2025
Silksong has a secret permadeath mode, as if it needed to get harder
Sep 8, 2025
Netflix's new Knives Out movie is already getting great reviews
Most Popular
Bowser to leave Nintendo
Wolverine's blood tech is a new frontier for Insomniac Games
Fire Emblem Shadows is an absolute mess
Microsoft cuts off Israeli military tech access that prompted Xbox boycott
Sonic Racing: CrossWorlds goes hard enough to keep the Mario rivalry alive
Hamish Linklater says Gen V's themes shouldn't be in the news
See More
Trending Now
Forza Horizon 6 will finally bring the series to Japan in 2026 — on Xbox first
Alan Wake 2 and Cocoon will be free on PlayStation Plus in October
The eyeball alien got no payoff in Alien: Earth's finale, and I'm mad about it
Join Our Team
About Us
Editorial Ethics and Guidelines
Community Guidelines
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
Polygon is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.