Pilot union urges FAA to reject Rainmaker’s drone cloud-seeding plan | TechCrunch
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
LatestStartupsVentureAppleSecurityAIAppsDisrupt 2025
EventsPodcastsNewsletters
SearchSubmit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
Latest
AI
Amazon
Apps
Biotech & Health
Climate
Cloud Computing
Commerce
Crypto
Enterprise
EVs
Fintech
Fundraising
Gadgets
Gaming
Google
Government & Policy
Hardware
Instagram
Layoffs
Media & Entertainment
Meta
Microsoft
Privacy
Robotics
Security
Social
Space
Startups
TikTok
Transportation
Venture
More from TechCrunch
Staff
Events
Startup Battlefield
StrictlyVC
Newsletters
Podcasts
Videos
Partner Content
TechCrunch Brand Studio
Crunchboard
Contact Us
Image Credits:YinYang (opens in a new window) / Getty Images
Startups
Pilot union urges FAA to reject Rainmaker’s drone cloud-seeding plan
Aria Alamalhodaei
Tim De Chant
12:10 PM PDT · September 13, 2025
Rainmaker Technology’s bid to deploy cloud-seeding flares on small drones is being met by resistance from the airline pilots union, which has urged the Federal Aviation Administration to consider denying the startup’s request unless it meets stricter safety guidelines.
The FAA’s decision will signal how the regulator views weather modification by unmanned aerial systems going forward. Rainmaker’s bet on small drones hangs in the balance.
The Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) told the FAA that Rainmaker’s petition “fails to demonstrate an equivalent level of safety” and poses “an extreme safety risk.”
However, Rainmaker CEO Augustus Doricko said an email that all of the union’s objections are based on only the public notice, rather than non-public documents submitted to the FAA that outline all of the company’s safety data and risk mitigations.
Rainmaker is seeking an exemption from rules that bar small drones from carrying hazardous materials. The startup filed in July, and the FAA has yet to rule. Instead, it issued a follow-up request for information, pressing for specifics on operations and safety.
In its filing, Rainmaker proposed using two flare types, one “burn-in-place” and the other ejectable, on its Elijah quadcopter, to disperse particles that stimulate precipitation. Elijah has a maximum altitude of 15,000 feet MSL (measured from sea level), which sits inside controlled airspace where commercial airliners routinely fly. Drones need permission from Air Traffic Control to fly inside this bubble.
Rainmaker’s petition says it will operate in Class G (uncontrolled) airspace unless otherwise authorized. ALPA notes the filing doesn’t clearly state where flights would occur or what altitudes would be used. However, Doricko said the documents submitted to the FAA disclosed that in addition to the flights being constrained to a max altitude of 15,000 feet MSL, they will be conducted in airspace that is predetermined to be safe by aviation authorities, “voiding any reasonable concern about high altitude flight or airspace coordination.” ALPA did not reply to TechCrunch’s requests for comment.
Techcrunch event
Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025
Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Sequoia Capital, Elad Gil — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before Sept 26 to save up to $668.
Join 10k+ tech and VC leaders for growth and connections at Disrupt 2025
Netflix, Box, a16z, ElevenLabs, Wayve, Sequoia Capital, Elad Gil — just some of the 250+ heavy hitters leading 200+ sessions designed to deliver the insights that fuel startup growth and sharpen your edge. Don’t miss the 20th anniversary of TechCrunch, and a chance to learn from the top voices in tech. Grab your ticket before Sept 26 to save up to $668.
San Francisco
|
October 27-29, 2025
REGISTER NOW
The union also objects to the flares themselves, citing concerns about foreign object debris and fire safety. ALPA points out that the petition does not include trajectory modeling of the ejectable casings or analysis on the environmental impacts of chemical agents.
“Regarding their objection to the use of flares, independent bodies like this administration’s EPA and multiple state departments of natural resources have studied the dispersion and environmental safety of materials used in cloud seeding for over 70 years and never found any adverse effect from cloud seeding,” Doricko said.
Sam Kim, Rainmaker’s aviation regulatory manager, said the company respects the pilot’s union and hopes to “continue to strengthen our relationship with the organization,” but claimed the objection “shows a lack of understanding of why Rainmaker has filed for this exemption.”
“Our use of flares in unmanned systems is solely for research purposes in a controlled flying environment and is not a part of our larger ongoing operations,” Kim added.
Doricko said that a typical Rainmaker operation disperses 50-100 grams of silver iodide, and far less than that in a flight with flares, while one hour of flight of a commercial plane releases kilograms of uncombusted volatile organics, sulfur oxides, and soot – significantly more material than a Rainmaker op.
“Rainmaker is interested in doing the best, responsible atmospheric research and is thus comparing flares to our proprietary aerosol dispersion system that will replace flares and exclusively emit silver iodide. ALPA’s objection to this exemplifies their limited understanding of our CONOP, all of which contains extensive risk mitigations in the non-public docs that the FAA is reviewing now,” Doricko said.
“Regarding ALPA’s concerns about coordination with aviation authorities and airspace, our flight operations consist of broadcasting signals, intentional coordination with local ATC, certified pilots, and a collision avoidance system that involves electronic and physical observers,” he said.
However, Rainmaker says the flights will occur over rural areas and over properties owned by private landlords “with whom Rainmaker has developed close working relationships.”
Cloud-seeding already happens today, largely in the western U.S., with crewed airplanes flown in coordination with state agencies. Ski resorts commission the operations to help keep their runs white, and irrigation and water districts fly them to build snowpack in the winter to help feed their reservoirs during the spring melt.
The general practice of cloud seeding dates back to the 1950s. By spraying small particles into certain clouds, scientists found they could induce precipitation. Typically, cloud-seeding operations use silver iodide for the particles, mostly because they mimic the shape of ice crystals.
When a silver iodide particle bumps into droplets of water that are super-cooled, they cause the droplet to rapidly freeze because its water is already below the freezing point. Once the ice crystal forms, it can grow quickly if conditions are right, faster than a liquid water droplet would in similar circumstances. Plus, the rapid growth helps the crystals stick around longer than a water droplet, which might evaporate before it has a chance to fall as precipitation.
Rainmaker’s twist — doing this work with drones instead of pilots — could prove safer in the longer term. The company points out that the flight profiles are tightly bounded, overseen by a remote pilot and trained crews, over rural areas, with other safety checks in place.
What happens next hinges on whether the FAA thinks those mitigations are sufficient. However it’s decided, the agency’s response will likely set the tone for novel cloud-seeding approaches.
9/13/2025: The story has been updated to include Rainmaker’s comments from Augustus Doricko, founder and CEO, and Sam Kim, Rainmaker’s aviation regulatory manager.
Topics
Climate, cloud seeding, FAA, Government & Policy, Rainmaker Technology, Startups
Aria Alamalhodaei
Reporter, Space and Defense
Aria Alamalhodaei covers the space and defense industries at TechCrunch. Previously, she covered the public utilities and the power grid for California Energy Markets. You can also find her work at MIT’s Undark Magazine, The Verge, and Discover Magazine. She received an MA in art history from the Courtauld Institute of Art in London. Aria is based in Austin, Texas.
You can contact or verify outreach from Aria by emailing aria.techcrunch@gmail.com or via encrypted message at +1 512-937-3988 on Signal.
View Bio
Tim De Chant
Senior Reporter, Climate
Tim De Chant is a senior climate reporter at TechCrunch. He has written for a wide range of publications, including Wired magazine, the Chicago Tribune, Ars Technica, The Wire China, and NOVA Next, where he was founding editor.
De Chant is also a lecturer in MIT’s Graduate Program in Science Writing, and he was awarded a Knight Science Journalism Fellowship at MIT in 2018, during which time he studied climate technologies and explored new business models for journalism. He received his PhD in environmental science, policy, and management from the University of California, Berkeley, and his BA degree in environmental studies, English, and biology from St. Olaf College.
You can contact or verify outreach from Tim by emailing tim.dechant@techcrunch.com.
View Bio
October 27-29, 2025
San Francisco
Founders: land your investor and sharpen your pitch. Investors: discover your next breakout startup. Innovators: claim a front-row seat to the future. Join 10,000+ tech leaders at the epicenter of innovation. Register now and save up to $668.Regular Bird rates end September 26
Register Now
Most Popular
Updates to Studio, YouTube Live, new GenAI tools, and everything else announced at Made on YouTube
Karyne Levy
Google isn’t kidding around about cost cutting, even slashing its FT subscription
Connie Loizos
Meta CTO explains why the smart glasses demos failed at Meta Connect — and it wasn’t the Wi-Fi
Sarah Perez
OpenAI’s research on AI models deliberately lying is wild
Julie Bort
How AI startups are fueling Google’s booming cloud business
Maxwell Zeff
Atlassian acquires DX, a developer productivity platform, for $1B
Rebecca Szkutak
Meta unveils new smart glasses with a display and wristband controller
Maxwell Zeff
Loading the next article
Error loading the next article
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunchStaffContact UsAdvertiseCrunchboard JobsSite Map
Terms of ServicePrivacy PolicyRSS Terms of UseCode of Conduct
H1-B VisaMBAsStubhubBlueskyTechCrunch DisruptTech LayoffsChatGPT
© 2025 TechCrunch Media LLC.