Best Peloton Alternatives for 2025 - CNET
X
Your GuideTo a Better Future
News
AI
Tech
VPN
Phones
Laptops
Audio
TV
Services & Software
Computers
All Tech
Home
Home Security
Smart Home
Kitchen & Household
Yard & Outdoors
Home Internet
All Home
Entertainment
Gaming
TV & Movies
Streaming
All Entertainment
Wellness
Sleep
Nutrition
Fitness
Personal Care
All Wellness
Cover Stories
More
Money
CNET Video
Editors' Choice
All More
Back
Today's Highlights
01
Apple Debuts the iPhone Air, AirPods 3 and More
02
I Tested iOS 26 for 3 Months and Liquid Glass Isn't the Only Game-Changing Feature
03
Super Mario Galaxy Movie, Mario Tennis Fever and More Coming for Mario's 40th Anniversary
04
iPhone 17 Pro: 8x Zoom, A19 Pro Chip for $1,099
05
iPhone 17 Preorders Are Live: Here's How to Get One for Free at Launch
06
AirPods Pro 3 Translate Conversations Live in Your Ear
07
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. It's Worse
08
Best VPN 2025: Top 5 Services Tested
09
Top 100 Channels on Live TV Streaming Services: YouTube TV, Hulu Live and More
AI
ChatGPT 3.5 Review: First Doesn't Mean Best
OpenAI Dall-E 3 Review: Generative AI for Fanciful, Fun Illustrations
Microsoft Copilot Chatbot Review: Bing Is My Default Search Engine Now
Hidden AI Features Available on Your Apple Watch Right Now
Wellness
9 Best Yoga Poses for Your Ultimate Night's Sleep
10 Simple Ways to Protect Your Eye Health Each Day
Apple Cider Vinegar: Here's What to Know About Health Benefits, Proper Dosage and More
7 Simple Happiness Hacks to Help You Control Your Mood
Back
Tech Whatever tech you're after, we'll help you save on it.
Explore all
Best VPN Deals
Best Gifts Under $300
Apple Deals
iPad
MacBook
AirPods
iPhone
TV & Audio Deals
TV
Roku
Sonos
Streaming
Gaming Deals
Xbox
PS5
Nintendo Switch
Gaming PCs
Back
Home Give your home an upgrade or snag some everyday essentials without breaking the bank.
Explore all
Best Electric Lawn Mower Deals
Best Amazon Deals
Smart Home Deals
Smart Home
Home Security
Robot Vacuum
Smart Thermostat
Equipment Deals
Portable ACs
Generators
Electric Lawnmowers
Air Purifiers
Kitchen Deals
Coffee Makers
Keurig
Air Fryers
Back
Wellness Focus on you with these health and wellness savings.
Explore all
Best Mattress Deals
Fitness Gifts
Fitness Deals & Gifts
Fitbit
Garmin
Meal Delivery Kit
Glasses and Contacts
Back
Gift Guides Discover the perfect gift for every occasion.
Explore all
100 Days of Holiday
DIY Father's Day Gifts
Under $100
Under $50
Hottest Toys
Online Flower Delivery Services
Gaming
Tweens
Available on Amazon
People Who Already Have It All
Gift Baskets
Back
Cover Stories These deep dives offer unique and expert perspectives on tech and other topics that matter most in our daily lives.
Explore all
No, Your iPhone Isn't Listening to You. Here's What's Really Happening
AI Data Centers Are Coming for Your Land, Water and Power
What Makes Cheap Earbuds a Real Value (or Not)? I Dug In to Find Out
AI Obituary Pirates Are Exploiting Our Grief. I Tracked One Down to Find Out Why
I Stepped Into the Future of Hyper-Connected Entertainment. It Made Me Surprisingly Emotional
My Inside Look at How One Superhero Gadget Can Save Your Home Hundreds
Back
AI Stay up to date on developments in the rapidly evolving world of AI with AI Atlas.
Explore all
AI News
iPhone 16E AI
Apple Intelligence Reboot
Galaxy S25 AI
ChatGPT Image Gen
AI Reviews
Best AI Image Generators
ChatGPT Free vs. Plus
Google Gemini
Microsoft Copilot
Best AI Chatbots
Best AI Website Builders
ChatGPT vs Gemini
AI Guides
How to Detect AI
What is an LLM
AI Resume Writing
ChatGPT Glossary
Back
VPN VPN reviews and guides from our experts to help you boost your online privacy.
Explore all
Best VPNs
Best VPN
iPhone
Free
Amazon Fire Stick
Mobile
Streaming
VPN Deals
VPN Reviews
ExpressVPN
Surfshark
NordVPN
NordVPN vs. ExpressVPN
Back
Phones Expert reviews and insightful guides on the latest phones to help you find the perfect device for your needs.
Explore all
Best Phones
Best Overall Phones
iPhone
Android
iPhone Deals
Best Phone Plans
Family Plans
Cellphone Plans
Unlimited Plans
Phone Reviews
Galaxy S25 Ultra
iPhone 16 Pro
iPhone 16 Cases
Back
Laptops Guides from our experts to help you find the best laptop for your specific needs.
Explore all
Best Laptops
Best Laptop
School Laptop
Macbook
Windows
Battery Life
Lightweight
Gaming
Budget
Monitors
Laptop Guides
Chromebook vs. Laptop
MacBook Air vs. MacBook Pro
Laptop Deals
Back
Audio The best of our audio guides to help you make the most of your listening experience.
Explore all
Best Earbuds
Wireless
Budget
Noise-Canceling
Best Headphones
Best Overall Headphones
Noise Canceling
Work from Home
Best Speakers
Bluetooth
Record Players
AV Receivers
Back
TV We'll help you make your entertainment as good as the movies.
Explore all
Best TVs
Best Overall TVs
65-inch
75-inch
Budget
TV Deals
QLED vs. OLED
TV Accessories
Best Projectors
Best TV Antenna
TV Streaming Devices
Best Streaming Device
Best Fire TV Stick
Back
Services & Software All the news and tips you need to get the most out of services, apps and software you use every day.
Explore all
Services and Software
Best Antivirus Software
Best Password Manager
Extra 15GB Gmail Storage
iOS Tips
Settings to Change
How to Clear Your Cache
Hidden Features
Web Hosting
Minecraft Server
Best Web Hosting Services
Best Cheap Web Hosting
Back
Computers What you need for work and play, and how to get the most out of it.
Explore all
Best Computers
Desktop Computer
Gaming PC
iMac Deals
Best Tablets
Best Overall Tablet
Best iPad
E Ink Tablets
iPad Pro Deals
Computer Tips
Recycle Old Tech
Windows on Mac
Back
Home Security Practical advice on keeping your home safe and secure.
Explore all
Best Home Security Cameras
Best Overall Security Camera
Outdoor
With No Subscription
Wireless
Best Security Systems
Best Overall Security System
DIY Security System
Best Security Products
Ring Video Doorbell
Smoke Detectors
Smart Locks
Video Doorbells
Back
Smart Home Everything you need to know to build a smart home that works for you.
Explore all
Best in Smart Home
Indoor Smart Garden
HomeKit
Smart Thermostats
Smart Garage Door Controller
Smart Plugs
Smart Displays
Smart Home Devices
Smart Lights
Amazon Alexa
Smart Home Deals
Best Electric Vehicles
Best Overall EVs
EV Chargers
Budget
Back
Kitchen & Household From coffee makers to robot vacuums, we tackle what you need to know to keep your home running smoothly.
Explore all
Best in Home Tech
Dishwashers
Car Vacuums
Showerheads
Air Purifiers
Cordless Vacuums
Robot Vacuums
Best for Home Office
Office Chairs
Standing Desks
Surge Protectors
Tower Fans
Dehumidifiers
Best in the Kitchen
Air Fryers
Bread Machines
Meat Thermometers
Nonstick Pans
Back
Yard & Outdoors All the tools, gear and skills you need to keep your home's yard and outdoor spaces looking sharp.
Explore all
Best in Yard & Outdoors
Garden Hoses
Pressure Washers
Water Guns
Grills
Electric Lawn Mowers
Solar Batteries
Portable Power Stations
Back
Home Internet We unpack everything you need to know about internet service.
Explore all
Internet Reviews
Verizon 5G
T-Mobile 5G
Xfinity Internet
AT&T Internet Air
Starlink
Best ISPs
Best Routers
Best Overall Routers
Gaming
Wi-Fi Extenders
Mesh Wi-Fi Systems
Top ISPs by Location
Chicago, IL
San Francisco, CA
Houston, TX
New York, NY
Back
Gaming Reviews, news and buying advice on console, PC, handheld and VR gaming.
Explore all
Nintendo Switch 2
How to Buy the Switch 2
Switch 1 vs. Switch 2
Switch Deals
Best Games by Platform
Nintendo Switch
PlayStation 5
Xbox
PC Games
Mobile
Virtual Reality
Best Gaming Hardware
VR Headsets
SSDs for PS5
MicroSD Express
Best Gaming Deals
PlayStation Plus
Xbox Game Pass
Free Xbox Game Pass
Xbox Deals
Back
TV & Movies When and where to watch TV shows, movies, and live events on streaming services.
Explore all
What to Watch
Best Shows This Week
Best Netflix Shows
Best Netflix Movies
Best Max Shows
Best Max Movies
Best Prime Video Shows
Best Prime Video Horror Movies
Best Prime Video Sci-Fi Movies
Best Disney Plus Shows
Best Apple TV Sci-Fi Shows
Best Hulu Horror Movies
Best Peacock Shows
Back
Streaming News, comparisons and advice to help you make sense of streaming.
Explore all
Best Streaming Services
Best Overall Streaming Services
Free
Live TV
4K Content
Kids
Music
Streaming Deals
Streaming Service Reviews
YouTube TV
Hulu Plus Live TV
Netflix
Max
Youtube TV vs. Hulu Plus TV
Back
Sleep Our science-backed advice will help you sleep well every night.
Explore all
Best Mattresses
Best Overall
King
Firm
Memory Foam
Twin
Adjustable
Plus Size
Side Sleepers
Air Mattresses
Mattress Reviews
Tempur-Pedic
DreamCloud
Nectar
Beautyrest
Helix
Purple
Mattress Deals
Best Sleep Products
Cooling Comforters
Cooling Mattress Toppers
Earplugs for Sleeping
Sleep Trackers
Travel Pillows
Best Pillows
Cooling Pillows
Sleep Headphones
Back
Nutrition From plant-based meat to the latest diet trend, we help you eat healthy.
Explore all
Best Meal Kits
Best Overall Meal Kit
Meal Delivery Deals
Vegan
Healthy
Meat Delivery
Keto
Cheapest
Nutrition Tips
Protein Visual Guide
Meal Kits vs. Groceries
Natural Sugar Substitutes
Apple Cider Vinegar
Back
Fitness No matter your fitness goals, we've got the expert tips you need.
Explore all
Best Fitness Equipment
Peloton Alternatives
Smart Home Gyms
Exercise Bikes
Treadmills
Ellipticals
Best Fitness Accessories
Smart Scale
Massage Guns
Heart Rate Monitor
Back
Personal Care We share how to look and feel so fresh and clean.
Explore all
Best in Eyewear
Replacement Rx Lenses
Reading Glasses
OTC Eye Drops
Vitamins for Healthy Eyes
Online Glasses Stores
Online Contact Lenses
Best in Dental Care
Electric Toothbrushes
Teeth Whitening Strips
Whitening Toothpaste
Back
Money Get the latest news and share tips for making better decisions for your financial future.
Explore all
Social Security
Social Security Check Tracker
Social Security Mistakes
How to Maximize Social Security
Best Finance Software
Identity Theft Protection
Tax Software
TurboTax Review
Free Tax Filing
Rocket Money Review
Zelle Limits
Back
CNET Video Your video guide to the ever-changing tech world.
Explore all
Expert vs. AI: Is Now the Time to Buy an EV? - CNET
The Real Reason to Upgrade to iPhone 16E (It's Not AI) - CNET
Watch Unitree's G1 Humanoid Robot Run in New Video - CNET
iPhone SE 4 vs. iPhone 17 Air Rumors: Does Size Matter Over Cost? - CNET
Back
Editors' Choice Our Editors' Choice awards represent the very best products and services our expert editors recommend.
Explore all
Subscription Services
Energy Services
Giftable Tech
Money and Wellness
WellnessFitness Fitness Equipment
Best Peloton Alternatives of 2025 as Tested by a Fitness Expert
We tested popular exercise bikes from brands like NordicTrack and BowFlex that make great Peloton alternatives.
Our Experts
Written by
Giselle Castro-Sloboda
Article updated on August 6, 2025 at 6:00 AM PDT
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more. Expertise Fitness and Wellness
See full bio
Why You Can Trust CNET
30+ Years of Experience 35 Product Reviewers 15k Sq. Feet of Lab Space CNET staff -- not advertisers, partners or business interests -- determine how we review products and services. If you buy through our links, we may earn a commission.
Reviews ethics statement
How we test
Why You Can Trust CNET
123456 Bikes Tested12345678910 Minimum hours testing per machine12 Researchers
How we test
Like so many other things at CNET, we test exercise bikes as thoroughly as possible through rigorous examination and comparison. Each exercise bike in our list has been through at least 100 miles of riding, using as many of the built-in features as possible.
vs
Compare
Back to selection
The Peloton bike is a popular exercise bike because of its advanced features, engaging instructors and fitness class varieties. I enjoy taking a class on a Peloton bike occasionally, and I understand the hype behind it. However, I’ve learned that not everyone wants a Peloton. Peloton alternatives are a good option if you want a similar experience to the Peloton, but you don't want the extras that come with it. I tested various exercise bikes over several months and determined which can serve as the best Peloton alternative in your home. Here are my top picks. Our Picks
NordicTrack S24 Studio bike Best peloton alternative overall
Jump to details
$2,499 at NordicTrack
Jump to details
BowFlex IC Bike SE Best budget Peloton alternative
Jump to details
$799 at BowFlex
Jump to details
Echelon Connect EX-5S-22 Best easy-to-use Peloton alternative
Jump to details
$1,099 at Echelon
Jump to details
FITNESS DEALS OF THE WEEK
Apple Watch Series 10 (GPS, 42mm, Black, S/M 130-180mm, Sports Band):  $299 (save $100)
Samsung Galaxy Watch 7 (Wi-Fi, 40mm, S/M Green):  $199 (save $101)
Amazfit Active 42mm Smartwatch With 14 Day Battery Life (Black):  $72 (save $39)
Garmin Vivoactive 5 GPS Smartwatch With AMOLED Display:  $190 (save $110)
Fitbit Charge 6 Fitness Tracker (Black):  $110 (save $50) Deals are selected by the CNET Group commerce team, and may be unrelated to this article.
Table of Contents
Best Peloton Alternatives of 2025 as Tested by a Fitness Expert
What is the best Peloton alternative?
Recent updates
Best Peloton alternatives of 2025
Best peloton alternative overall
Best budget Peloton alternative
Best easy-to-use Peloton alternative
<p>Like&nbsp;so many other things at CNET, we test exercise bikes as thoroughly as possible through rigorous examination and comparison. Each exercise bike in our list has been through at least 100 miles of riding, using as many of the built-in features as possible.</p>
Peloton alternatives compared
Factors to consider when choosing a Peloton alternative
How we test Peloton alternatives
Other Peloton alternatives tested
Workouts you can do with Peloton alternatives
Best practices for Peloton alternatives
Peloton alternatives FAQ
Which bike is Peloton's biggest competitor?
What should I look for when buying an indoor exercise bike?
Which muscles does indoor cycling work?
Is a built-in or BYO screen better?
Is a subscription necessary?
What’s better, Echelon or Peloton?
What is the best Peloton alternative?The best overall Peloton alternative is the NordicTrack S24 Studio Bike. This bike offers a high-end experience similar to the Peloton with some extra features. Although it is a higher price (it costs more than a Peloton), it consists of a SmartAdjust feature miming real-world cycling. For example, if you’re virtually cycling through the woods of Colorado, the bike automatically adjusts to match that altitude and declines accordingly. The screen is also bigger on this bike (24 inches versus Peloton’s 21.5 inches).Similar to Peloton, NordicTrack also offers a membership subscription through the iFit app to access all of its classes, which you can sign up for separately. Another plus, you can connect third-party streaming services to this bike and watch your favorite TV shows or listen to your own music during a ride.Recent updatesEditor’s note, June 10, 2024: BowFlex filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in 2024, and the brand is now owned by Johnson Health Tech, which also owns Horizon Fitness and Matrix. You can still buy BowFlex products through its website and via retailers such as Amazon and Dick’s Sporting Goods.Editor's note, Jan. 1, 2025: We'll be updating this page periodically in the new year. There are currently new machines in the testing stages, as you'll see noted below. Some brands we're considering that weren't tested previously include Schwinn, Aviron, NordicTrack, Horizon and Zwift Ride. Editor's note, June 30, 2025: This whole page has been overhauled and updated with new products and testing. Best Peloton alternatives of 2025Filter by
all
No Screen
Full Body Workout
Subscription Required
Showing 9 of 9 Results
Photo Gallery 1/1
NordicTrack S24 Studio bike
Best peloton alternative overall
8.4
/10
SCORE
Pros
It is quiet and smooth
It has the auto-adjust option when you’re taking a class to add a real-life feel to the workout
The touchscreen is bigger than Peloton’s at 24 inches
You can connect to popular third-party apps
Individual volume control for both instructor and music
Cons
The handles have plastic buttons for resistance and incline. The buttons make the product look cheap and make me wonder if it’ll break easily.
iFIT Pro membership costs more at $396 yearly and controls the ability to access more advanced classes and features
Can’t connect to the Peloton app
S24 exercise bike costs more than a Peloton at $2,399
Why we like it: You can have assembly included for this bike, which we found helpful. One of NordicTrack’s unique qualities is its SmartAdjust feature, which allows the bike to adjust resistance based on your fitness level. I tested this while cycling through a scenic mountainside, and the bike automatically adjusted the incline based on elevation. This is the same feature on NordicTrack treadmills.The best way to experience the NordicTrack S24 bike is by taking cycling classes through its iFIT Train app ($15 monthly or $144 yearly). Like Peloton, you can also take fitness classes like yoga and strength training. This bike also comes with 3-pound dumbbells with a rack holder beneath the screen.The base of the screen has a built-in fan, which is nice when you’ve been sweating through a session. This screen is bigger than Peloton’s and swivels if you plan on doing floor exercises. I could comfortably ride with standard sneakers in the pedal cages, but the pedals are double-sided for clip-in shoes.Who is it best for: This bike is for you if you like the feel of the Peloton but are looking for an alternative with a more immersive experience. You can pay extra for the iFIT Pro membership ($39 monthly or $396 yearly), which is best if multiple people plan on using the bike or if you want custom workout creations. You can still access third-party apps like Netflix, Prime, Spotify, Strava, Garmin Connect and Google Fit. It’s nice having the option to listen to your music or stream your favorite shows.One of the features I like that NordicTrack applies to its machines is the individualized volume control, so you can lower the instructor’s volume during a class or increase the music volume or vice versa. Another plus is that you can connect your Bluetooth-powered headphones, so your workout won’t disrupt anyone in your house.Who should not get it: This bike is one of the most expensive on the list and costs more than a Peloton. I wasn’t a fan of the buttons that control the resistance because they’re made of what looks like cheap plastic. I would’ve preferred a resistance knob. If it’s not within your budget, there are cheaper Peloton alternatives. You also can’t access the Peloton app on this bike, even with the various third-party app access. On the other hand, if this bike is within your budget, you may want to purchase the Peloton instead. Even with classes, the iFIT instructors don’t match the Peloton instructors’ energy.  ... Show more
Get it now
$2,499 at NordicTrack
Specs & Configurations
Product dimensions
56.4" L x 21.8" W x 62.7" H
Maximum weight capacity
350 poundsResistance
24 levels of digital resistanceScreen size
24 inchesWarranty
1-year manufacturer's warranty covering the frame, motor, parts and laborPrice
$2,400 Score Breakdown
Software Ease of Use
5
Functionality
5
Warranty
2
Assembly
4
Features
5
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
BowFlex IC Bike SE
Best budget Peloton alternative
7.2
/10
SCORE
Pros
Affordable at $600
Can connect to third-party apps like Peloton
Solid bike with a smooth ride and doesn’t shake when in use
JRNY app is inexpensive at $149 yearly and allows up to three profiles
JRNY monthly All-Access membership is $24 cheaper than Peloton All-Access membership
The warranty lasts up to 10 years for the frame
Cons
Flywheel location in the back makes it harder to move the bike
No touchscreen; you’ll need a tablet to use it
No third-party music option
Assembly requires an extra person
Why we like it: If you want a more cost-effective Peloton alternative, consider the BowFlex IC Bike SE. This exercise bike costs less than half the price of a Peloton ($600), and you get similar perks. Assembly can take over 1.5 hours, but it’s doable if you have an extra person to help and follow the tutorials. If it’s within your budget, you can also pay extra for BowFlex to provide in-house assembly (prices vary by location). This exercise bike has 100 resistance levels, is quiet and is smooth overall. Its 7-inch LCD screen is tiny compared to the Peloton’s but provides data like resistance, speed, watts and burn rate. The upside is that you can use a tablet with this exercise bike and easily connect to the Peloton app and other third-party apps like Explore the World and Zwift. You also have free access to JRNY, BowFlex’s fitness app, for the first two months if you’re a new member. Afterward, you can pick from the mobile-only membership ($11.99 monthly or $100 yearly) or the All-Access membership ($19.99 monthly or $149 yearly). The bike also comes with 3-pound dumbbells, which can be used for floor exercise during other classes. The pedals are dual-sided cages, so you can ride with standard or clip-in shoes. Who is it best for: If you want an affordable Peloton alternative and are OK with the lack of a touchscreen, the BowFlex is a good choice. At $600, the bike is a steal, and even the JRNY All-Access membership at $29 a month is cheaper than Peloton’s equivalent at $44 a month. This bike also has the best warranty on the frame, covering up to 10 years and 2 years on mechanical parts. Overall, I like BowFlex as a brand, and its quality stands up to the IC Bike SE.Who should not get it: The flywheel on this bike is located in the back, so it may be a challenge to move it around compared to bikes with the flywheel in the front. This is something to consider if you live alone or plan on moving the bike often. Also, if the seat doesn’t feel comfortable after a few rides, you’ll probably end up shelling out money for a better seat replacement. The BowFlex extra comfort bike seat is an additional $40. The music selection wasn’t my favorite because you can only pick from the JRNY Radio. I like having the option to play my own music from Spotify or Apple Music. If this matters to you, you're better off with another Peloton alternative -- even if you have to spend a little more.  ... Show more
Get it now
$799 at BowFlex
Specs & Configurations
Product dimensions
54.7" L x 21.5" W x 52.8" HMax weight capacity
330 poundsResistance
100 magnetic levels of resistanceScreen size
7-inch color LCDWarranty
Frame: 10 years; Mechanical parts: 2 years; Electronics: 1 year; Labor: 1 yearPrice
$800 Score Breakdown
Software Ease of Use
4
Functionality
4
Warranty
2
Assembly
4
Features
3
Add to compare
Photo Gallery 1/1
Echelon Connect EX-5S-22
Best easy-to-use Peloton alternative
7.2
/10
SCORE
Pros
Easy to use
The screen is bigger than Peloton’s at 22 inches
Quiet when in use
Echelon Premier membership is cheaper than Peloton’s at $40 monthly
Can connect to third-party apps like Strava and Spotify
Cons
Issues connecting to the Bluetooth initially
Can’t connect to the Peloton app
Classes may be less engaging than Peloton’s
Warranty is only for 1 year
Why we like it: The Echelon EX-5S-22 is the best Peloton alternative if you want an exercise bike that is intuitive to use and provides a similar look and experience. Assembly is similar to BowFlex and can be done at home by following an instructional video. Or you can pay extra for in-home assembly (prices vary by location). It’s a slightly higher price than our budget pick, but it may satisfy that Peloton itch.I’ve tested other Echelon exercise equipment before, and I appreciate the simplistic design from the assembly to the software. You don’t always have the time to learn a new piece of fitness equipment and want to take it for a spin right away. At $1,000, it’s also a more affordable bike than a Peloton and includes a slightly larger 22-inch touchscreen. You have access to the Echelon Fit app, which gives you access to live and on-demand classes. The screen is large enough to get a clear view of the class's instructor and all your stats during a ride. The pedals are also dual-sided, so you can choose regular sneakers or clip-on shoes. Overall, it’s similar to riding a Peloton, minus the cost.Who is it best for: This bike is best for the rider who wants a bike that is easy to use and doesn’t require much of a learning curve. This is also appropriate for the exerciser who doesn’t want to fully commit to the Peloton but still likes indoor cycling classes. An Echelon Premier membership is cheaper than Peloton’s All-Access membership ($44/month). You can pick from two membership options: Premier (create up to five profiles with unlimited classes for $40/month and cancel anytime; or pay annually at $33/month or $400 a year) and FitPass (one profile with limited classes, $11.99/month). You can also connect with third-party apps like Strava, Apple Health and Fitbit, and listen to your music or audiobooks via Spotify, Apple Music or Audible. Who should not get it: One of the issues I had when setting up this bike was connecting to the Bluetooth. It took some troubleshooting. If you’d like the option to connect to the Peloton app, this bike doesn’t allow it. One of the things Peloton has over Echelon is the instructors. If you love Peloton’s instructors' energy, you may find Echelon’s instructors less exciting and motivating. The screen also doesn’t tilt like Peloton’s while doing floor exercises. The warranty is also only for a year.  ... Show more
Get it now
$1,099 at Echelon
Specs & Configurations
Product dimensions
21.25"D x 52.36"W x 56.29"HMax user weight
300 poundsResistance
32 levels of magnetic resistanceScreen size
22-inch HD screenWarranty
1-yearPrice
$1,099 Score Breakdown
Software Ease of Use
4
Functionality
4
Warranty
2
Assembly
4
Features
4
Add to comparePeloton alternatives compared
Peloton alternativesDimensionsMax weight capacityResistanceScreen sizeWarrantyPrice NordicTrack S24 Studio bike 56.4" L x 21.8" W x 62.7" H350 pounds24 levels of resistance24 inch touchscreen1-year manufacturer's warranty covering the frame, motor, parts and labor$2,499BowFlex IC Bike SE 54.7" L x 21.5" W x 52.8" H330 pounds 100 magnetic resistance7 inch color LCDFrame: 10 years, Mechanical parts: 2 years, Electronics: 1 year, Labor: 1 year$800Echelon EX-5S-22 21.25"D x 52.36"W x 56.29"H300 pounds32 levels of magnetic resistance22 inch HD touchscreen1 year$1,099
Factors to consider when choosing a Peloton alternative
Although the Peloton is the most popular exercise bike, it may not be what everyone is looking for. There may be better options to fit your needs. We rounded up this list with alternatives that can be better options if you don’t want to commit to a Peloton.AssemblyThe perks of owning a Peloton are that assembly is included with your delivery. If you decide to buy a Peloton alternative, be prepared to assemble it on your own. We looked at the options the exercise bike brand offered or included assembly. For those bikes we had to assemble, we considered how clear the instructions were and how long it took to build the bike.FeaturesSimilar to the Peloton, these alternatives include a subscription to access their classes. We looked at whether the member subscription is essential to your indoor cycling experience or if there’s an option to just ride or connect to other third-party apps. We also looked at how the bike’s features compare to a Peloton.FunctionalityDuring the testing experience, we examined how well the exercise bike functioned compared to a Peloton. We considered whether any pieces arrived broken or if parts of the bike didn’t function correctly. We also observed how intuitive it is to use as a first-time rider since a Peloton is relatively easy to use.WarrantyWhen making a big purchase like a Peloton alternative, it’s essential to know the warranty in case anything breaks. We looked at the warranty's length and what parts of the exercise bike it covers. How we test Peloton alternatives
Testing a Peloton alternative means it needs to meet a few basic benchmarks to see how it measures up against the Peloton. While testing these bikes, we took into consideration assembly, the types of classes offered and the features while comparing it to the true Peloton experience. We looked at the following:Size, stability and comfort: This includes ease of assembly (if needed), the size of the bike, how much noise it makes, whether it wobbles and how comfortable it is to sit and ride. Software features: As a Peloton alternative, it must provide a similar experience to the Peloton bike. This includes heart-rate monitoring, a wide variety of workout types through its workout subscription, plus an app and/or a built-in screen to access these workouts.Ease of use: Peloton alternatives should be easy enough for a beginner or advanced rider to use. If they’re too complicated, they can’t be Peloton alternatives. Other Peloton alternatives tested
Schwinn IC 4:The Schwinn IC 4 left much to be desired because the console arrived broken and wouldn’t turn on. This is a traditional exercise bike that I have used in the past and like overall. But I wouldn’t label it as a “best Peloton alternative.” It doesn’t have a touchscreen, so you’ll need a tablet to use it and follow along with your favorite third-party workout apps. We will update this review once we receive a replacement.  Schwinn IC 4
$799 at Amazon ZWIFT Ride with KICKR CoreI didn’t think the ZWIFT Ride with KICKR Core was appropriate for a Peloton alternatives list since it’s unique enough to be in its own category and was designed for serious cyclists who want an indoor trainer experience. The bike’s frame is a smart bike that connects to Wahoo’s KICKR Core, which automatically controls the resistance on the bike. Since this bike doesn't have a touchscreen, you will need a tablet or smartphone to use the ZWIFT companion app. The ZWIFT workout imagery design resembles a cross between the Sims and Mario Kart video games without the special effects. If you plan on using a different cog other than the KICKR core, you have to make sure it is ZWIFT compatible first. This is a better option as an exercise bike instead of a Peloton alternative. ZWIFT Ride with KICKR Core
See at Zwift Horizon 7.0 IC Indoor CycleThe Horizon 7.0 IC Indoor Cycle was a straightforward exercise bike overall, but I wouldn’t consider it the best option for a Peloton alternative. It didn’t come with broken parts and was on the easier side to assemble, so I would recommend this to someone who wants a simple and reliable bike. It does connect to the Peloton app and others, but lacks a touchscreen and high-tech features. A plus is that this exercise bike has a lifetime warranty. Horizon 7.0 IC Indoor Cycle
See at Horizon
Workouts you can do with Peloton alternatives
Peloton is considered the best of the best when it comes to exercise bikes. Other exercise bikes allow you to do the same workouts with some differences. For example, there may be bikes that have their own version of a touchscreen and cycling classes. Most workouts you do on a Peloton can also be done on a Peloton alternative. Some exercises you may want to try include:High-Intensity Interval Training (HIIT): If you're used to riding an exercise bike, you're familiar with HIIT rides. You use short bursts of energy followed by a rest period, and you can play around with the resistance to make the ride harder or easier. Additionally, it's a good way to get a quick workout in less than 30 minutes.Hills and sprinting: If you're focusing on improving your stamina and endurance, practicing cycling uphill with heavy resistance and sprinting on little to no resistance on an exercise bike is a good way to do so. You should also have the option to “Just Ride,” similar to Peloton, which doesn’t require connecting to a class. Other group fitness classes: One of the perks of being a Peloton member is that you have access to workout classes other than cycling. You should be able to take similar classes with a Peloton alternative. Best practices for Peloton alternatives
Adjust the bike to your needs: Before using a Peloton alternative, you’ll need to adjust the seat and handlebars. This will vary per person, but ideally, you want the seat to be hip height.Wear the right shoes: Peloton alternatives may allow you to use clip-in shoes (just like Peloton), while others only have cages that can fit any sneaker. If you’ve never used clip-in shoes, you should practice getting on and off the bike with them first, since they require a bit of a learning curve.Know your bike: It helps to learn where the resistance is on your Peloton alternative. For example, on most bikes, you turn a knob to increase or decrease resistance. If there is a touchscreen, it's helpful to know how to access the classes you’ll want to participate in, how to adjust settings like volume and how to set up user profiles and other features on your device. Finally, you’ll want to know how to stop the bike in case of an emergency. Peloton alternatives FAQ
Which bike is Peloton's biggest competitor?
This is a tough question to answer because it depends on what kind of exercise bikes you’re into. But based on the popular exercise bikes and the bikes that resemble Peloton the most during testing, it would have to be NordicTrack, BowFlex and Echelon.
Show more
What should I look for when buying an indoor exercise bike?
You’ll want to consider cost, size, display screen and whether you want to pay for a monthly subscription. If your main goal is to simulate the experience of riding a Peloton, you’ll want to get a bike that offers similarities, like the NordicTrack S24.
Show more
Which muscles does indoor cycling work?
Indoor cycling is a full-body workout. It targets your core, upper body, back, glutes, quadriceps, hamstrings and lower legs. Some bikes also include weights so you can more specifically target muscle groups in your arms.
Show more
Is a built-in or BYO screen better?
The most eye-catching aspect of the Peloton exercise bike is its 21.5-inch HD touchscreen. For a Peloton alternative, you want the exercise bike to have a screen or tablet compatibility. Some exercise bikes like NordicTrack and Echelon come with the large touchscreens, but other brands like BowFlex require you to use a tablet to access classes. The smaller screen may not draw you in as much, but it’s a personal preference whether you want the touchscreen.
Show more
Is a subscription necessary?
Peloton charges $44 a month for its All-Access membership. As you can tell by the Peloton alternatives list, other brands offer similar memberships through their app subscriptions. You can use any of these bikes independently, but if you want to get the most out of a bike, you may want to consider signing up for a membership as well. The other plus is most of these exercise bikes connect to third-party apps, so there are different ways to use them.
Show more
What’s better, Echelon or Peloton?
This depends on the type of experience you’re looking for. An Echelon is a slightly more affordable option ($300 cheaper), and it’s easy to follow like a Peloton. But a Peloton has a rotating screen, and its instructors tend to be more high-energy than Echelon’s. If the classes matter the most to you, an Echelon membership is slightly cheaper than Peloton’s, so you may want to spend the extra money on the classes and bike if it’s in your budget.
Show more
The information contained in this article is for educational and informational purposes only and is not intended as health or medical advice. Always consult a physician or other qualified health provider regarding any questions you may have about a medical condition or health objectives.
About the Author
Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer Giselle Castro-Sloboda Fitness and Nutrition Writer
I'm a Fitness & Nutrition writer for CNET who enjoys reviewing the latest fitness gadgets, testing out activewear and sneakers, as well as debunking wellness myths. On my spare time I enjoy cooking new recipes, going for a scenic run, hitting the weight room, or binge-watching many TV shows at once. I am a former personal trainer and still enjoy learning and brushing up on my training knowledge from time to time. I've had my wellness and lifestyle content published in various online publications such as: Women's Health, Shape, Healthline, Popsugar and more.
Read full bio
Fitness Guides
Fitness Equipment
Best Elliptical
Best Treadmill
Best Rowing Machine
Best Exercise Bike
Best Peloton Alternative
Best Adjustable Dumbbells
Best Home Exercise Equipment
Best Smart Home Gym Workouts
Fitness Accessories
Best Weightlifting Shoes
Best Walking Shoes for Men
Best Walking Shoes for Women
Best Running Shoes for Men
Best Running Shoes for Women
Best Compression Socks
Best Foam Roller
Fitness Tech
Best Massage Gun
Best Smart Scale
Best Mirror Workout
Best Fitness Workout Apps
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Chest Strap Heart Rate Monitors
Tonal Review
Theragun Review
Fitness Nutrition
Best Protein Powders
Best Protein Shakes
Fitness Supplements that Work
Best Pre-Workout Supplements
Best Creatine Supplements
Best Foods for Building Muscle
Best Weight Loss Programs
Your guide
to a better future
US
France
Germany
Japan
Korea
About CNET
Software Downloads
Press Room
Accessibility
Newsletters
Your Privacy Rights
Licensing
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Terms of Use
Careers
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
Consumer Health Data Privacy Policy
Best Products
Best VPNs
Best VPN for Firestick
Best Mobile VPN
Best iPhone VPN
Best Live TV Streaming Services
Best Streaming Devices
Best TV Antennas
Best Phones
Best Cheap Phones
Best Camera Phones
Best iPhones
Best Android Phones
Best TVs
Best OLED TVs
Best Soundbars
Best Projectors
Best Bluetooth Speakers
Best Laptops
Best Gaming Laptops
Best Chromebooks
Best Monitors
Best External Hard Drives
Best Antivirus
Best Password Managers
Best Wordpress Hosting
Best Web Hosting
Best Gaming Keyboards
Best Gaming Headsets
Best VR Headsets
Best Portable Generators
Best Electric Vehicle Chargers
Best Electric Cars
Best Hybrid Cars
Best Electric Bikes
Best Home Security Systems
Best Security Cameras
Best Video Doorbells
Best Smart Thermostats
Best Smart Locks
Best Smart Lights
Best Robot Vacuums
Best Air Purifiers
Best Coffee Makers
Best Dishwashers
Best Lawn Mowers
Best Outdoor Security Cameras
Best Grills
Best High-Yield Savings Accounts
Best Mortgage Lenders
Best Home Equity Loans
Best Tax Software
Best Mattresses
Best Pillows
Best Weighted Blankets
Best Sleep Trackers
Best White Noise Machines
Best Meal Kit Delivery Services
Best Protein Powders
Best Fitness Trackers
Best Standing Desks
Best Massage Guns
Best Electric Toothbrushes
Best Hair Dryers
Best Internet Providers
Best Mesh WiFi Systems
Best WiFi Routers
Best Fiber Internet Providers
Best Satellite Internet Providers
Popular Reviews
ExpressVPN Review
Surfshark VPN Review
NordVPN Review
PIA VPN Review
ProtonVPN Review
Tempurpedic Mattress Review
Saatva Classic Mattress Review
DreamCloud Mattress Review
Helix Mattress Review
Stearns & Foster Lux Estate Review
Avocado Green Mattress Review
Brooklyn Bedding Signature Review
Helix Sunset Luxe Review
Hostinger Review
Blue Apron Review
Thistle Meal Delivery Review
Hungryroot Review
ModifyHealth Review
Chase Savings Account Review
Verizon 5G Home Internet Review
T-Mobile 5G Home Internet Review
LG OLED C4 TV Review
Hisense U8N TV Review
TCL QM6K TV Review
Deals
Best VPN Deals
Best Streaming Service Deals
Best Galaxy S24 Deals
Best iPhone Deals
Best T-Mobile Deals
Best Phone Plan Deals
Best Google Pixel Deals
Best TV Deals
Best Cheap TV Deals
Best MacBook Deals
Best Laptop Deals
Best Xbox Game Pass Deals
Best Mattress Deals
Best Apple Watch Deals
Top Explainers
What Is Teflon Flu?
What Is Cellular Internet?
What is Apple Cider Vinegar?
How to Improve Cell Service?
What is 5G?
What are Eye Supplements?
Medicare 2025?
Soundbar vs Speakers?
Fun Alexa Commands
Nordvpn vs Expressvpn
AT&T vs Xfinity
OLED vs QLED
How to Increase Gmail Storage?
Netflix Secret Menu
EVs vs Gas Cars?
Child Tax Credit?
Events
Amazon Prime Day 2025
Apple WWDC
CES
Samsung Unpacked
Google I/O
World Mobile Congress
Apple Event
ComiCon
Gamescom
IFA
Black Hat/Defcon
Popular Series
AI Atlas
Editor's Choice
CNET Voices
Science
Culture © 2025 CNET, a Ziff Davis company. All rights reserved.