This Is the Best Red Velvet Cake Box Mix, According to a Pro Baker
Skip to main content
Login
Join
My Account
My Recipe Box
My Newsletters
My Account
Customer Care
Log out
Search terms
Recipes
Dinner
Easy Recipes
Shop
Videos
Subscribe
The Best Grocery Store Cakes According to a Professional Baker
19 Recipes That Start with a Box of Chocolate Cake Mix
16 Recipes That Start with a Box of White Cake Mix
Best Red Velvet Cake
We Tested 5 Popular Brands and Found the Best Brownie Mix
The Best Yellow Cake Mix: We Tried Betty Crocker, Pillsbury and 5 More
Red Velvet Pound Cake
The Very Best Pancake Mix, According to Our Pro Pancake Flippers
The Best Carrot Cake Box Mix, According to a Professional Baker
The Best Gluten-Free Cake Mix Brands According to Our Test Kitchen
Our Best-Ever Chocolate Cake Recipes
The Best Chocolate Cake Mix Brands According to Pro Cooks
The Best Blueberry Muffin Mix: Our Pro Bakers' Top Picks
The Best Brownie Mix Brands According to Our Pro Bakers
The Best White Cake Mixes to Fill Your Pantry, According to Experts
Red Velvet Jar Cake
Is Funfetti the Best Confetti Cake Mix? We Tried 9 Brands to Find Out
What Is Red Velvet Cake?
9 Best Boxes of Chocolates for Mother's Day Gifting and Hosting [Tested and Reviewed]
Classic Red Velvet Heart Cakes
Molly Allen for Taste of Home
Home
Recipes
Dishes & Beverages
Cakes
Red Velvet Cakes
The Best Red Velvet Cake Box Mix, According to a Professional Baker
Molly Allen for Taste of Home
By
Molly Allen
Taste of Home's Editorial Process
Published on Jun. 20, 2025
Save
Saved
Saving
We tested three red velvet boxed cake mixes to find which one made the most eye-catching red cake with the best texture.
A nice slice of red velvet cake is one of my favorite desserts. I love the balanced chocolate-meets-vanilla flavor paired with a touch of tanginess. Not to mention, a slice of bright red cake with contrasting cream cheese frosting is certainly stunning. As a former bakery owner, red velvet was one of my most-requested cake flavors, and I continue to make it again and again for friends and family.
While baking a from-scratch red velvet cake is preferred, the ingredients list can feel a bit long. (Enter: butter, eggs, cocoa powder, buttermilk, red dye and a touch of vinegar.) When you need a beautiful cake ASAP, a boxed mix may be the best bet. You can use the boxed mix for a simple cake, transform it into red velvet brownies or make cute individual red velvet jar cakes. But which boxed option in the baking aisle rivals a homemade cake? I went on a mission to find the mix that created the best texture while maintaining moisture and balancing the cocoa and vanilla flavors with that signature tanginess. Here’s how the three I tested stacked up.
1
/
3
3. Pillsbury Red Velvet Cake Mix
Molly Allen for Taste of Home
Add this red velvet cake mix to a large bowl and mix with water, oil and three eggs. You’ll end up with a deeply red-hued batter that keeps its hue after baking. This mix took longer to bake than the other options and resulted in a cake that wasn’t quite as tall. The crumb was fluffy and tender with excellent moisture. Where it fell flat for me was flavor. It tasted just like a light and subtle chocolate cake, without the touch of tanginess I had been hoping for.
Bottom Line: This is a decent choice based on its texture and moisture, but I wished for better flavor.
2
/
3
2. Duncan Hines Red Velvet Cake Mix
Molly Allen for Taste of Home
This cake mix came in as a very close second because it does deliver on a lot of great qualities a red velvet cake should have. After adding water, oil and eggs, it baked in the shortest amount of time, but resulted in the tallest cake. The crumb was light and fluffy with great moisture. It also delivered an incredibly vibrant red hue. The flavor provided a balance of chocolate and vanilla notes, as desired, with just a touch of tanginess. I wished for a bit more tanginess as-is, but the box did have an idea for doctored cake mix! Using Greek yogurt instead of oil would have provided just the flavor I was looking for.
Bottom Line: This cake mix delivers on great moisture, a fluffy texture and slight tanginess.
3
/
3
1. Betty Crocker Red Velvet Cake Mix
Molly Allen for Taste of Home
While this mix was almost a close tie to the Duncan Hines option, it ultimately took the cake (can’t miss a good pun) because of its superior flavor. The color of the cake was bright and eye-catching with a fluffy, airy texture and surprising moisture. It didn’t just offer a light chocolate flavor—every bite actually tasted like red velvet cake should—with balanced cocoa and vanilla, along with a pronounced tanginess. That, of course, was enhanced even further with the addition of cream cheese frosting on top.
Bottom Line: Make an easy red velvet cake with this mix, which delivers on fluffy texture, excellent moisture and proper flavor. It has this baker’s stamp of approval.
Author
Molly Allen
Now a freelance writer and photographer specializing in stories about food and drink, Molly is a former bakery owner who brings her years of first-hand expertise to Taste of Home and other food-centric publications. She is a pizza oven expert having tested nine different models. She also has a passion for grilling and cooking on smokers and fire pi...
Read More
Lucy Wang
Lucy is a first-generation Asian American mom and influencer who loves creating fun, approachable recipes.
Bars
Lucy Wang’s Rainbow Mochi Rice Krispies
Barbecue
Lucy Wang’s Easy KBBQ
Custard
Lucy Wang’s Banana Brulee
DISCOVER MORE
Recipes
Contests
News
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Home & Living
Stuff We Love
Test Kitchen
Magazine
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
The Healthy
About Us
Contests
RSS
Customer Care
Contact Us
Log In
Help
Press Room
Advertise with Us
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Affiliate Program
Cookie Settings
License our Content
© 2025 RDA Enthusiast Brands, LLC
Sign-up for recipes to your inbox
Enter email address
Sign Up
Taste of Home is America's #1 cooking magazine.
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
We recommend our users to update the browser.
Google Chrome
Apple Safari
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
RecipesMore Items
SEE ALL RECIPES
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
Cuisines
Cooking Styles
Dishes & Beverages
Health & Wellness
Holidays & Events
Ingredients
Meal Types
Techniques
Contests
NewsMore Items
SEE ALL NEWS
People in Food
Grocery Stores
New Products
Recalls
Restaurants
Trends
Health & WellnessMore Items
SEE ALL HEALTH & WELLNESS
Healthy Eating
Healthy Lifestyle Tips
Nutrition Tips
Holidays & EventsMore Items
SEE ALL HOLIDAYS & EVENTS
Christmas
Easter
Halloween
St. Patrick’s Day
Home & LivingMore Items
SEE ALL HOME & LIVING
Cleaning & Organizing
Entertaining & Hosting
Family & Parenting
Grocery Shopping
Home Decor
Outdoor Living
Travel
Stuff We Love
Test KitchenMore Items
SEE ALL TEST KITCHEN
Cooking Gear & Gadgets
How To
Meal Planning
Taste Tests
Test Kitchen Tips
Videos
Submit a Recipe
Newsletters
Follow UsMore Items
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Twitter
Feedly
Subscribe
Shop
Log In / Join
Recipe Box