Snag this AIO CPU cooler with a screen for only $74
Menu
Sign in now
Close
News
PC Hardware
Submenu
CPU
GPU
Storage
Monitors
Keyboards & Mice
Software
Submenu
Productivity
Other Software
Operating Systems
Submenu
Windows
Linux
macOS
Devices
Submenu
Single-Board Computers
Laptops
Gaming Handheld
Prebuilt PC
Home
Submenu
Networking
Smart Home
Gaming
Submenu
Game Reviews
Sign in
Newsletter
Switch 2
RTX 5060
Windows 11
Gaming
Forums
Close
Snag this AIO CPU cooler with a screen for only $74
By
Timi Cantisano
Published 2 days ago
Follow
Followed
Like
Link copied to clipboard
Source: Thermalright
Thermalright Mjolnir Vision 360 ARGB White CPU AIO Cooler
$75
$107
Save $32
An affordable AIO CPU cooler that not only gets the job done but also looks great doing it. It also features a small display that can show stats about your PC and play custom video files. Grab it now for just $75, which is an absolute steal.
$75 at Amazon
Expand
Collapse
If you're someone that's looking for better cooling for your PC, but doesn't want to make things complicated, an AIO CPU cooler is going to be a safe bet. All you have to do is make sure it's compatible with your build, attach the pump to the CPU, and mount the radiator and fans to the PC case. It's a fantastic upgrade that can really elevate the look and feel of your computer. Of course, there's always a price to consider when splurging on these types of accessories. But the good news is that you can now find AIO cooling solutions at affordable prices if you know where to look. That's where this top-rated AIO from Thermalright comes in, delivering everything you could want for a price that can't be ignored.
Looks good and it won't cost you a fortune
Source: Thermalright
The first thing you're going to want to know about this AIO cooler is that it's compatible with a wide range of CPUs. Thermalright details how this specific model can be used with AMD AM4 and AM5 CPUs, along with Intel LGA 1700 and 1851 processors. Naturally, you'll want to make sure your CPU is compatible before reading any further. Now that you've made it this far, and you know that this product is right for you, this AIO cooler features three 120mm fans, which offer tons of air flow and also have some customizable RGB lighting on them as well. All of this is attached to a 360mm radiator, which is going to do the bulk of the work in order to keep your CPU cool. What makes this $75 AIO cooler really set itself apart from other affordable products is the fact that this one has a screen that can show off the stats of your PC, or be customized with movies and images of your choosing. It's quite a large display, coming in at 3.5 inches, so we think it will look pretty good in any computer setup. You really get a lot for the price, making this AIO cooler one that packs impressive value. We think you'll like it if you're someone that's on a tight budget, or just not sure if this is something that you should go for. It's a small price to pay for a new piece of hardware that will really change the way you use your PC. AIO coolers aren't for everyone, but some people will swear by them.
CPU
Follow
Followed
Like
Share
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Reddit
Flipboard
Copy link
Email
If you buy something from a XDA link, we may earn a commission. Visit our editorial standard.
Close
Recommended
5 days ago
6 faults in used PC components you won't find in the listings
4 days ago
I regret not ditching Adobe software for this open-source design app sooner
5 days ago
5 PC components where I never chase looks over performance
5 days ago
5 projects you can do for much cheaper with an ESP32 than a Raspberry Pi
Today's best deals
This powerful 16-port PoE+ switch could be a game-changer for your home network
12 minutes ago
This comedic puzzle game is free on Steam for a limited time
7 hours ago
This top-rated Logitech mouse is perfect for travel, and now only $15
21 hours ago
See More
Trending Now
I built an "on air" display for my home office using this cheap ESP32-based setup
5 rules I use for sane VLAN design at home (without overcomplicating it)
4 reasons a SATA SSD still belongs in your gaming rig
Join Our Team
Our Audience
About Us
Press & Events
Contact Us
Follow Us
Advertising
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Policies
XDA is part of the
Valnet Publishing Group
Copyright © 2025 Valnet Inc.